Mr President, I would like to respond to you straightaway, Mr Karas.
The Socialists in this House want the internal market too.
We too are campaigning for and arguing in favour of the euro, but we want a social market economy and not a US-style market economy.
In any case, hitherto this House was agreed, with a few exceptions, that we did not wish to model ourselves on America, but that we wanted Europe to pursue a different path, hence my disappointment at the fact that we are unlikely to reach a consensus of opinion.
We have seen, Mr Mann, that it will not be enough to deliver fine appeals and issue demands, for what we need are quantifiable objectives.
This method has proved its worth as regards the euro and is proving its worth at the moment as far as measures to combat youth unemployment are concerned.
All 15 countries have instituted specific measures to this end and there will be a need for this across the board.
We are also expecting that in future there will be a more comprehensive debate on employment policy in the Member States, involving the two sides of industry, regional partners, those in charge at local level - for that is not yet the case - and of course we expect - and we are also agreed on this - that there will be socio-political convergence, in the light of modernisation of the social systems of course.
But when Mr von Wogau says that we are way behind on the reform front in Europe then I am left wondering whom he is actually comparing us with.
Surely not with Japan?
And surely you do not seriously mean the American system?
Take a look at the health care system there.
Nowhere in Europe is it as expensive as it is in America, or as ghastly.
And of course we want to afford women opportunities on the labour market.
Insufficient consideration has been given to this aspect in the various employment policy options as well.
Finally, there is one point which I will agree with you on, namely that concerning qualifications.
It is indeed a shortcoming that Germany is having to bring in experts from Asia and India.
We ought to have begun attending to the question of qualifications and training opportunities years ago.
Unfortunately, however, Germany has rested on its laurels in this respect over the last 16 years.
