Mr President, High Representative, there is an interesting debate going on in France at present about some of the things the Prime Minister said when he visited Israel.
The debate is interesting in that one of the questions it addresses is: who is a terrorist?
The debate is also interesting because it is about the relationship between the Prime Minister and the President.
However, I certainly do not intend to become embroiled in this debate.
It is just that I wonder, Mr Solana, why no one asks what the European position is?
Why does it not actually occur to anyone to ask what stance Europe takes on this issue, for surely that ought to be the all-important question!
Surely a point of controversy between a Prime Minister and a President about an issue as important as this, at a flash point so close to Europe, ought to be irrelevant in view of the fact that Europe as a whole should have a position in this regard.
Therefore, I would also like to ask you in this connection, what you intend to do, for example, when it comes to the Middle East - unfortunately peace will be slower in coming than we would like it to be, particularly a lasting peace - in order to expound and assert a European position, and to make it plain for all to see in this important region.
This is partly the task of the Commission, but it is also a task that you must surely take on board.
This is also particularly relevant to the very important dialogue with the Arab world and the Islamic world, and to the various centres of conflict around the world, one example being the situation in western Sahara, which is by no means unimportant.
I therefore believe that the European Union - in addition to the military aspects, which I would like to place great emphasis on, particularly when it comes to peace in this region, which is not a million miles away from us - should have a clear and unequivocal position.
I hope that, once the other important issues have been dealt with, you will also find the time to see to it that a common European position is enunciated.
