Mr President, I would first like to thank my colleagues for their constructive and objective cooperation, which has resulted in this joint motion for a resolution.
In the course of 13 project modifications, environmental impact assessment has been simply disregarded.
As Mrs Flemming said, it is a long time since the Espoo Convention was signed.
It should have been ratified by the Czech Parliament at the beginning of the year and transposed into national law, but this has been indefinitely delayed without any reasons being given.
Despite this, the constant concerns about safety expressed by the public, in the press and also in private discussions are not being taken seriously.
During the last bilateral meetings between Czech, Austrian and German experts on 2 and 5 September this year, it was once again stated that Temelín does not meet German safety standards and would not, therefore, receive an operating licence in Germany.
My fourth point is that electricity from Temelín is not intended for internal consumption: it is intended for export, and at dumping prices at that.
Fifthly, the safety of European citizens is at stake here and our responsibility towards them should be adequate grounds for action.
The Commission says that we do not have any legal options here.
Well, the Commission has known that for a long time.
Did the Commission expect that somebody would just pull a legal measure out of the hat?
No.
I expect that the Greens' view will be the well-established one that safety and nuclear power stations are two incompatible concepts.The fact of the matter is that there are eastern European nuclear power stations and western European nuclear power stations.
Double standards are being applied here, and that must stop.
Our friends in the Commission have to accept that you cannot use legal measures alone to solve every single problem.
I therefore expect the Commission and the Council to demonstrate together the same strong and combined political will that the European Parliament is displaying with this motion for a resolution.
I would like to comment on the Technical Group of Independent Members' amendment, which does not include any sensible or new requirements apart from a hint at compromise.
I cannot vote for this policy.
It is simply populist to gloss over the long-standing failure or lack of interest on the part of politicians towards this issue by threatening a veto - it will not have the desired effect and it will not create a constructive basis for negotiations.
The safety of Europe's citizens and, thus, confidence in the Community should be a priority for us all.
Our motion for a resolution is enormously important for the people of Europe and above all for the Czech public.
I hope that we will not disappoint them.
