Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, rarely has there been so much insight and common sense in evidence on all sides of this House, as is proving to be the case during this debate today.
That is no doubt due to the issue we are dealing with, the urgent nature and significance of which everyone deems equally important.
We want to prepare ourselves well for the European Year of Languages.
Indeed that is why all three institutions have been making overtures to each other and sparing themselves long-winded negotiations.
I would expressly like to thank Mr Graça Moura for the work he has done.
It has been such an outstanding effort that all the coordinators in the committee simply had to give him their backing.
I have to admit that his charm must have had a lot to do with this, as well as his expertise of course!
What are we aiming to achieve with this action, which we are supporting so vigorously?
We want to make our fellow citizens receptive to the advantages that mastering several languages brings.
The different languages are part of cultural diversity, and understanding other languages is a particularly effective way of tapping into the riches of our cultural heritage.
It is simply wonderful to be able to read and understand a poem by Verlaine in French, or one by Heine in German, or by Vasco Graça Moura in Portuguese.
But even at a mundane everyday level, one cannot get far without a knowledge of other languages.
Indeed, only those who speak several languages can gain full access to the internal market.
As the Socrates rapporteur, I am very much in favour of placing special emphasis on the importance of learning the language spoken by one' s European neighbours, and of launching pilot projects on this very issue, in the course of the Year of Languages.
Of course we all hope that the measures planned for this Year of Languages are not one-day wonders, rather they should extend well beyond the year itself.
I hope the Year of Languages will bring the success we all need.
