Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is now some three months since Hurricane Lothar caused devastating damage to forests in Europe, and in particular France and Baden-W端rttemberg.
In Baden-W端rttemberg alone the accumulation of storm wood runs to about 25 million solid cubic metres.
This equates to three times the average annual felling and this has already led to 30% lower timber prices.
Just the cost of remedying the damage in Baden-W端rttemberg, the area for which I can speak as the delegate, runs to about DM 1.5 billion, of which DM 300 million are needed simply for reforestation.
However, Hurricane Lothar is not a problem specific to Baden-W端rttemberg.
France and other EU States have also been greatly affected.
Nevertheless, the Commission has so far refused to make additional budgetary allocations available and prefers to cite, in this instance represented by Mrs Schreyer, the fact that final agreement has already been reached in the European Parliament on Budget 2000 and that the requirement for additional funds should be covered by the Member State in question from the funds already allocated.
However, the redistribution of funds was made subject to approval and this approval has not yet been given.
I consider the argumentation of Mrs Schreyer to be somewhat cynical when you consider that, only a few days later, she announced that the additional financial requirement of EUR 300 million for the EU Balkan commitment, which is undoubtedly important, would be covered by EUR 300 million from the agriculture budget without the farmers noticing it, and this includes forest owners.
I would like to stress once again that we are dealing here with extremely long-term damage which may also have ecological implications.
Tidying up, storage and reforestation all involve intense physical work.
Commissioner, I know what I am talking about.
I am a farmer.
I have seen how the hurricane took the roof off our stable and I have seen the state our private woods are in.
We were able to put things right ourselves but, by and large, this is not the case for all areas, all persons, all communities.
You can see that.
But that this is done quickly and efficiently and, above all, is sustained long term is an ecological necessity.
During his visit to the Black Forest on 16 February, the Commissioner for Agriculture, Rural Development and Fisheries, Dr Fischler, indicated broad flexibility within the existing financial framework for measures for rural development.
He indicated, as you have today, Commissioner, that you are willing to give consideration to, to help ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
