Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who takes Europe seriously wants to provide a good future for young people in the European Union.
This includes, most importantly, ensuring that young people can develop their skills and talent in any place of their choice in any country in the Union, irrespective of where they are from and where they trained.
Anyone who has learned something at one end of the Union should be able to pursue his or her career in a country in the middle or at the other end of the Union.
The European Parliament takes this aspect of the future of young people very seriously, which is why we keep pressing to have equivalent qualifications recognised in all Member States.
We want to ensure that there are no bureaucratic hurdles to hamper citizens' rights of freedom of movement and freedom of establishment.
But we also want to guarantee high training standards; high standards guarantee progress and are in the interests of all our citizens.
Thanks to the excellent work by the rapporteur, Mr Wieland, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has had no trouble highlighting a few important points in the directive before us today.
I hope that plenary shares its views and will vote in favour by a large majority.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists will, in all events, be voting in favour of all, I repeat all the amendments proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs.
It is most important both to me personally and to my group that the need for lifelong learning has been highlighted, thereby ensuring that doctors, who are the focus of this directive, have a high standard of future-orientated professional qualifications.
The need for professional qualifications acquired in individual Member States to be seen as equivalent also cut clear across the political divide.
That is as important for patients and, in the final analysis, for all citizens, as it is for the medical profession itself.
For this reason alone, it is important for the Council to follow the European Parliament's lead and not to take refuge in the conciliation procedure, which may allow it to gain time, but not recognition.
Thank you for listening.
