, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is proposing a fundamental amendment to the directive on preventing money laundering.
Since the 1991 directive was adopted many external factors have changed.
Firstly, we have had experience with the existing directive and secondly, we need to take account of the changes in the Treaties.
Given the growing awareness that money is the main objective and driving force behind organised crime, appropriate measures also need to be taken which target the profits from organised crime.
The financial interests of the Community also fall victim to organised crime, as the reports about combating fraud in the Commission show.
This is to the detriment of the budget of the European Communities.
The Member States protect their financial interests in accordance with their laws, but the Communities do not have a police force or judicial authorities with which to bring defrauders before a judge so as to recover the lost money and impose punishments.
That is why the Community budget needs to be protected by means of directives, regulations and other measures.
Article 280 of the EC Treaty clearly states that, "The Community and the Member States shall counter fraud and any other illegal activities affecting the financial interests of the Community through measures to be taken in accordance with this Article, which shall act as a deterrent and be such as to afford effective protection..." .
The Commission proposal should be seen in close connection with this article of the Treaty.
Most of the crime which harms the Community budget is also organised crime.
The rapporteur is right there.
But there are also exceptions.
Furthermore it is not always international organised crime, and here the Committee on Budgetary Control would have preferred the Commission proposal.
However, we do recognise the delimitation problems and, if there is simply a reference to Article 280 of the Treaty, we are prepared to go along with the rapporteur.
Incidentally, we believe that the money laundering directive is firstly about prevention and providing a deterrent and secondly about gathering evidence.
The Member States need to have a legal base for their own and the Union' s sakes.
All appropriate evidence ought to be used to punish fraud and other illegal activities which are to the detriment of the EU budget.
It would certainly be in line with the Presidency Conclusions of the October 1999 European Council to proceed in this way.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Lehne, for the cooperation which we have enjoyed.
