Madam President, Commissioner, I would like once again to make the idea of extending codecision to the fisheries policy palatable to you.
The fisheries policy is one of those policies that makes a substantial contribution to the realisation of the single market.
It strengthens economic and social conditions.
How does it do this?
Well, here in Europe, in excess of 250 000 people are still directly employed in this sector; being engaged in activities ranging from the catch itself to fish processing, through to marketing.
According to the latest investigations, for every euro invested there is a three-fold return.
A substantial number of those employed in this sector - almost 60 000 that is - are reliant on the international agreements, since fish are, by their very nature, an extremely mobile source of food, and also - I might add - an extremely important source of protein.
It is up to us, today' s politicians, to set down a marker and guarantee the fishing industry' s future.
Consider the message we are to send out to those regions of Europe that depend on the industry.
I refer in particular to the forthcoming fisheries reform in the year 2002.
We must concern ourselves mainly with protecting and conserving this resource, which will have social, economic and environmental consequences.
It is obvious that the fisheries sector is not an isolated pawn in the game, for it has an impact on sectors such as development, the environment and foreign relations.
As a Community policy in its own right in the Union treaty, the fisheries sector will unite these aspects to good effect, for that is what we want to achieve: we want to place the fisheries sector on an independent administrative and legislative footing, in relation to agriculture for example.
In fact this political responsibility inevitably gives rise to a claim to the most far-reaching of codecision rights.
In addition, if qualified majority decisions in the Council and Parliament' s codecision powers accord with one another, then clearly this will help to tighten up on legislative procedures.
I would welcome any support the leader of negotiations can offer at the Intergovernmental Conference.
