Mr President, I too want to thank the rapporteur for his report and congratulate him.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism as a whole is pleased about this agreement because it was well known how very difficult it was to reach a transport agreement which established a fair balance between competition and the environment and which would also produce a satisfactory solution for both sides.
The two agreements that directly concerned us, and that we have analysed, concern air transport and road and rail transport.
Here we must note, with regard to air transport, that Switzerland is, of course, already a member of numerous international conferences and organisations and has therefore incorporated in its legislation quite a few aspects of what we in the EU regard as the acquis communautaire.
Its adoption of the regulation on the liberalisation packages is the most practically significant measure.
The Transport Committee regards it as a small weakness that the duty-free agreement is not applicable to Switzerland in this case.
The road-rail discussion is a more difficult and also a more interesting one.
We think the experiment being proposed here is most interesting.
On the one hand, Switzerland will gradually forego reducing the number of heavy goods vehicles.
It will allow vehicles of 34 to 40 tonnes up to the year 2004; on the other hand, it will abolish the quotas accordingly.
Eventually it will replace this system with a road tax, of approximately EUR 200 on average.
So you can understand why the transport operators are rather critical of that.
And in my view their criticism is fair because we believe these road taxes do not take sufficient account of the fact that the transport operator may invest in environment-friendly lorries.
But what the Transport Committee considered even more important was that this agreement points the way to a transport policy entirely in line with that of the EU: reducing the burden on the roads while supporting transport by rail.
We believe the proposed agreement between the EU and Switzerland is a pilot agreement; the same applies to the analysis of the means by which what we regard as a theoretical transport policy may subsequently be put into practice.
