Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Peter Mombaur, and congratulating him on his skilled reporting.
And having heard the contributions made today by the honourable members, we really can say that the liberalisation of the energy markets has progressed faster and more efficiently than we expected in the last parliamentary term.
That is the first thing.
Mr Caudron, it is no longer possible to reverse this and that is how it should be.
Secondly, the energy liberalisation sceptics have been impressively routed.
The prices of gas and electricity have sunk as the result of competition, Mrs Vachetta, including to consumers.
You insist on portraying the large undertakings as the winners here, but you are completely wrong, that is rubbish.
Security of supply to consumers and to the economy has been maintained and the competitiveness of jobs has improved considerably, not deteriorated.
It has improved thanks to international competition.
We still have a whole series of problems to solve.
Too little headway has been made liberalising the markets in individual Member States but we assume that the French presidency will make further progress here.
Secondly, liberalisation must be controlled by the competition authorities and we have a European institution that can and does do that; otherwise private monopolies will replace state monopolies.
Mr Mombaur pointed that out just now.
Thirdly, we need the strict division between energy generation and grid management.
Even the problem of charges and access conditions are, in my view, better solved by a regulatory authority than in voluntary agreements between major associations.
Fourthly, regulated grid access with set prices, following the telecommunications example, is the best way of ensuring that small and medium-sized companies and smaller works departments receive equal treatment.
Both mergers and state aid must be controlled and approved in the future.
Professor Monti has announced this.
I think that this is right in principle, but I think that his deadline of five years is too soon and I think that we need to extend the deadline to ten years, so that European industry has time to develop fully and invest with good prospects in this important future market.
