Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure there are still many more questions.
You can of course always revisit everything, but I think that we now need labelling of beef and beef products as a matter of urgency, by which I mean as from September this year and not as from January next year.
We have discussed this at length in committee.
As regards guarantees of origin, great progress has already been made as a result of improved transparency, and it was possible to make a positive impact.
There are many regional programmes, for example in my home region of Rheinland-Pfalz, and these demonstrate that this is feasible and have led the way here.
It is not so long since farmers and meat-processing plants were threatened with annihilation, and it has only been through a combination of comprehensive information and strategically sound and effective marketing measures that it has been possible to rebuild consumer confidence to some extent.
We must not allow this success to be undermined by deferring the introduction of labelling, which would be a step backwards.
Designation of origin is particularly important for consumers.
The preparatory work our farmers have done on labelling has been good and clear.
We have made good progress with beef labelling in Germany.
In this context I would like to ask you, Commissioner, what progress the other Member States have made.
We certainly need to keep an eye on products imported from third countries.
These should be clearly recognisable as such when they are sold.
But what about those sometimes excessively detailed descriptions?
They are confusing.
For example, how many consumers know what a heifer is, who would be interested in that, and why is it important?
The Commission has not yet clearly presented its proposals on category here, but I think it will have to adopt a simple and clear approach.
Descriptions such as 'veal' or 'beef' are sufficient, and anyone who wants more information should also be able to obtain it.
