Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important report here today.
I should like to begin by saying that this is an exceptionally good maiden report by our new colleague Mrs Hieronymi, who also did a truly first-class job in hammering out compromises in committee with our Socialist colleagues and with the Greens and Liberals.
So I believe we have cooperated well, even with the representatives of the European United Left.
Together with the Commission, we have also managed to make a good Commission proposal even better.
We do, of course, have a good general idea of what MEDIA I and MEDIA II have achieved.
MEDIA Plus, of course, will surely be even better - the mere addition of the word 'Plus' must tell us that.
I believe that, at a time when we have been talking about tremendously important educational issues in both Lisbon and Feira, we cannot make cuts in areas in which the products of the education system are supposed to find work.
That is why I consider it very important that we really do create opportunities in this field, and to that end we must invest more money in the audiovisual industry, especially in the training of professionals.
What is on offer here is therefore insufficient.
This is always the case; there is never enough money for culture or for education.
But at the end of the day we shall always be answerable to those people to whom we have promised the earth in our fine speeches.
What we find here is not enough to enable us to respond to the audiovisual revolution.
It will not enable us to develop a genuine European audiovisual policy to challenge the American hegemony in this domain.
Nor can it really serve to unlock the full potential of the audiovisual industry to create jobs and, of course, to produce a critical mass of cultural content.
I believe we have a duty to keep emphasising this fact.
To put it bluntly, a European audiovisual policy has yet to materialise.
That is why we must make an all-out effort here.
I believe that, as Mrs Hieronymi has said, we could impart a considerable amount of momentum with a little more money.
In the sphere of communications in particular, we can make a great deal of progress, including the creation of new jobs.
At the same time, I should like to reemphasise that the primary concern of every one of us is of course European culture in all its diversity, as is the need to make it visible beyond our national borders and to portray it universally.
