Mr President, Commissioner, as European Parliament observers, my colleague Georg Jarzembowski and I were able to follow the presidential elections in Taiwan on 18 March on the spot, 'live' as it were.
On the basis of numerous conversations with various parties and visits to the polling stations, we satisfied ourselves that the election was free and democratic.
We had the impression that the elections in Taiwan were marked by a mature awareness of democracy amongst the population.
This was evidenced both by the high turnout, which, as compared with the presidential elections, had risen by 6% to 82%, and by the result itself.
After a very long period of supremacy by the party in government up to that point - a period lasting over 50 years - the political scene has been revitalised.
The opposition candidate was elected the new President and, for the first time in Taiwan' s history, a woman was elected Vice-President.
These results alone mark a historical turning point.
The people of Taiwan viewed any attempts by outsiders to influence them with enormous sensitivity.
The result was primarily an expression of the internal policy debate, and the newly elected President, Mr Chen Shui-bian, based his election campaign almost entirely on internal issues, and the high-profile, aggressive and provocative noises emerging from the People' s Republic of China, from a variety of sources, had, if anything, the opposite of the desired effect.
Nevertheless, everyone involved was aware of the circumstances.
Chen Shui-bian was also elected because the previously governing Kuomintang party was split by the presence of two candidates.
However, the Kuomintang still has a majority in the Taiwanese Parliament.
Chen Shui-bian is very well aware that a radical pro-independence policy would have been condemned to failure.
The region needs security and stability.
The only way to achieve reconciliation and lasting peace is through positive cooperation and a constructive dialogue between mainland China and Taiwan.
Healthy relations are also needed for economic development.
We therefore welcome the fact that both sides in this conflict are seeking a peaceful solution.
In this respect we welcome Chen Shui-bian' s initiative to commence bilateral talks, and we also welcome the cooperative approach announced by the People' s Republic of China.
The PRC is officially endeavouring to reach a peaceful solution, subject, of course, to Taiwan renouncing its efforts towards independence.
Our resolution is intended to further democracy in Taiwan, but the People' s Republic of China is taking it as an affront.
That is why I seriously ask myself whether we should not perhaps adopt a different approach, based on reconciliation instead of polarisation.
