Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Sakellariou, I would not wish to speak for Mr Dupuis but I do not think one should be selective.
If you sign something with Mr Modrow then you could do so with Mr Dupuis and others.
Mr Modrow belongs to the Communist Group and is one of the last leaders of the DDR.
If you sign something with him then you must also consider whether you were in earnest when you said what you did to Mr Dupuis.
Returning to urgent matters: unfortunately, as much as we may want to, we will be unable to solve the general problems facing Kosovo during today' s urgency debate.
Nor is this the right time for us to consider the questions put by Mr Dupuis.
We cannot ask today what is to become of Kosovo.
That is really something we should do in a foreign affairs debate.
We are here today to deal with an urgent topic, that of having to discuss, for the second time, a motion on the subject of Albanian Kosovan prisoners in Serbia.
I really have to wonder why we adopted this motion last September.
I have neither read nor heard that the Council has taken it to heart.
I really have to wonder if the Council has even a scrap of the least compassion one should feel for one' s fellow human beings.
If the representatives of the Council had sons, brothers or fathers in the prisons in Serbia then I feel there would be a more rapid response.
In common with you all, I too have heard the cries for help uttered by the mothers, wives and daughters of Albanian Kosovans sitting in Serbian prisons.
To be quite honest, though, not a soul is helping them.
I was in Pristina recently and searched in vain for three students at the university, whom I have known for years.
I know where they are: they are in Serb prisons, yet they have done nothing, I repeat nothing!
There is no reason for them to be there.
They have not come to anyone' s attention for terrorist or military reasons.
I therefore believe that we must take up this cause.
The Albanian doctor, Flora Brovina, who was sentenced in Nis on 13 January, is now in a prison hospital and is extremely ill.
She was sentenced because she gave assistance as a doctor to all wounded people, irrespective of where they came from.
She was neither a terrorist nor a UCK activist.
But not a soul is helping this woman to get out of prison.
I therefore believe that the Council of Ministers has no interest whatsoever in tragedies of this kind.
That is tragic to my mind.
Things have come to a pretty pass when we MEPs pass on the cries for help and none of those in positions of responsibility hear them.
The sanctions are now slowly being relaxed.
Did it never occur to anyone to make the relaxation of sanctions conditional on the Serbian Government actually doing something about this?
It seems not.
We should also consider the situation in Mitrovica, and I concede that Mr Sakellariou is absolutely right about this.
It is not just the Serbs that we must demand civilised behaviour from, we must now call upon those to whose aid we went to refrain from avenging terror with terror.
Otherwise we will be just as lacking in credibility.
And so that is why I believe that we must call upon the people to whom we provided assistance to behave in a truly civilised manner.
Mitrovica must not remain divided.
We have had enough divided cities in Europe and still have them.
I believe we must prevent this from happening.
If attacks are now being made on KFOR then all I can say is that these are our sons and we sent them there to help the Albanians and the Serbs and anyone else living in Kosovo.
We are entitled to expect them not to be punished for serving in Kosovo of their volition.
Hence I expect everyone there, be they Albanian or Serb, to leave the KFOR troops in peace.
I endorse what Mr Sakellariou had to say.
The international community must send the police force it has been promising them at long last.
A third of this force is there, two thirds are yet to come, and I believe this is what we need to do.
I would just like to point out that something terrible is going on in Serbia at present.
Mr Seselj, this nationalist, who is actually a war criminal, is obstructing the last vestige of press freedom they have over there.
We must clamp down on this or else we will be unable to receive any accurate information whatsoever from the Serbian people!
