Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, just an hour ago I was still sitting with my French teacher, making a big effort to learn some more French.
I must tell you, it is really fun learning a language.
It is good when you know that you do not have to take an examination afterwards but are learning for yourself and in order to communicate with other people and treat them in the right way.
I have to say that I am honestly enjoying learning French
(The President asked the speaker whether he might not like to continue his speech in French.)
(Laughter)
I believe that that is also what we need in the future: for learning to be fun.
In life, the learning pyramid is, in fact, turning.
When it comes to learning, we really used to think of young full-time students, whereas now we see that people in employment are having to learn more and more.
I believe that we, ourselves, in the European Parliament can confirm that we are actually, day by day, doing more in the way of learning, evaluating and passing judgment than ever we had to do at school or university.
With increasing age, you also become more aware of what it is you would like to learn.
You become significantly more selective, and it is the very joy of learning that makes you enthusiastic and want to learn new things.
What we have here, then, is a paradigm shift, not only in the economy, but also in broad strata of society, not only through e-learning and the new opportunities provided by technology, but also through a change in consciousness.
I believe that this very change in consciousness shows that adults in all walks of life really do consider lifelong learning of this kind to be more and more important.
I therefore consider it a very good thing that we in the European Parliament should have a good look at long-term strategic issues of this kind.
Especially on a Friday like today, it is important, I believe, that we should also have the courage to think in terms of long-term strategy about how we might best provide support to the people of Europe.
Particularly for elderly people, the subject of health becomes increasingly important on into old age.
We still have a lot to learn about, for example, how to eat properly and how to treat our bodies.
I believe that precisely these fundamental virtues are very important for the future.
What do we need now at the level of the European Community?
We need a general system of accreditation for private, public and in-house education, a European education passport like a European driving licence so that the building blocks of education can be used and compared throughout Europe.
We need ways of comparing educational expenditure and revenue throughout Europe, as well as ways of comparing qualifications.
We should be trying to introduce best practices worldwide as a spur to positive competition.
We ought to be learning from the whole world which system and which form of education are best for our people and citizens in Europe.
