Madam President, opinion differs in my group as to the proposed enlargement of the European Union.
Personally, I see it as an historic necessity and opportunity, which must not be put at risk either by rashness, undemocratic procedures, and bureaucratic or national small-mindedness, or politicians ' lack of consideration for the social dimension.
Commissioner, I do not doubt your personal commitment to enlargement.
Yet if you tell us, as you have done today, that we simply misinterpreted the interview, and I then read, in tomorrow 's edition of die Zeit, your own comments to the effect that the interview was your annual flop, then I am bound to wonder what is going on here!
I would urge you once again to clarify the situation for us.
In July, you dropped some very vague hints about the difficulties.
Despite being asked to do so, you were not prepared to be more specific at the time.
You are absolutely right to say that the people must be involved in the decision-making processes.
But that means of course, that the democratically elected representatives should be given these opportunities too.
I believe we must see an end to the excessively secretive brand of diplomacy employed by the Council and the Commission towards Parliament.
There is a second problem.
I emphatically support your view that national governments must not overwhelm the people with existential decisions, as happened - I would agree with you on this point - in the case of the euro.
But a German referendum must never be allowed to determine the weal and woe of enlargement.
That would be insensitive and unacceptable to my mind.
Aside from that, you will receive our unswerving support if you are serious about democratic participation.
However, I also recall that you yourself dismissed out of hand the idea of having a referendum on the Treaty of Maastricht, in Germany at the time.
Thirdly - and this is the most important point - if we are to win the people' s support for enlargement and accession then their hopes and fears must be taken very seriously.
As I see it, there is more to this than launching a PR campaign costing EUR 150 million; it means highlighting the democratic, social and employment dimensions of enlargement.
There has been precious little sign of this so far, either in the debate on a Charter of Fundamental Rights, in EU reform undertakings, or in the accession negotiations.
Commissioner, please use your considerable and acknowledged ability to help make eastward enlargement a project for joint security and social solidarity, and one that can be jointly decided on and shaped by the people of Europe.
Then you will have us all on your side.
