Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have three closely connected items on our agenda today.
But the problem is that media interest will focus not so much on the Mennea and Zabell reports as on the Commissioner's announcement.
I think that is a pity.
We are now more worried about the apple of Germany's eye, football, than about what is really at stake today.
I have no hesitation in supporting the two Commissioners whose task it is to implement the Bosman judgment.
If FIFA had done its job, the Commission would not have needed to get involved in this.
I hope that FIFA recognises that and will now finally come up with something that the Commission can include in its proposals, as long as they do not run counter to the Bosman judgment.
So I think that everyone has a job to do here.
As regards the reports, I would like to say that, in view of the big business sport has become, the social and educational importance of popular sport needs to be highlighted.
There is a danger that sport as a whole will sooner or later be badly hit by rules on competition.
We would like to prevent that, which is why the Mennea report quite rightly calls for a reference to sport in Article 151 of the Treaty as an aspect of culture.
I, myself, called for this in my report back in 1996.
That resulted in a declaration at Amsterdam, which was by no means enough.
That is why I am supporting the fact that this is finally being introduced now.
That report also called for the Commission to declare a European Year of Sport.
A European Year of Sport would be an important stimulus, and I hope that the new Commissioner will now take this up.
I am delighted that Mrs Zabell has covered some broader ground in her report on doping and that she has also stressed the abuse of young sportsmen and women, and has given an impetus to jointly tackling doping.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on having joined this Anti-Doping Agency now, so that it can genuinely give an impetus to a harmonised approach towards combating doping on behalf of the Community of Fifteen.
I wish it every luck.
