Before I take the floor, I have this to say to the lady who just spoke: according to my understanding of the principles of parliamentary democracy, one is supposed to listen quietly when someone else speaks, even if the person in question holds a different view!
(Loud applause)
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Representatives of the Council and the Commission and all those present, first of all I would like to thank you, Madam President, and the Members of the European Parliament, for giving me this opportunity to come and address you here today.
I have come to Strasbourg to affirm Austria' s firm commitment to the European Union.
Recent opinion polls have confirmed that some 80% of Austrians continue to support Austria' s membership of the European Union.
That is a very important and a very positive signal as far as I am concerned.
I have come to Strasbourg, with the backing of my fellow countrymen, to deliver an unequivocal declaration of belief in the European Union as a Community of values.
I believe that since its accession, Austria has shown itself time and again to be a conscientious European and willing to engage in constructive cooperation in the Union.
A few days ago the European monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia was opened in Vienna.
I took part in the opening at the invitation of the board, and I said in my speech that I fully understood why people should fear a resurgence of racism, intolerance, xenophobia and anti-Semitism - not just in Austria but also in other countries and regions of Europe.
I emphasised how important it still is today to nip things in the bud whenever human dignity and human rights are at stake.
We must not hesitate to clamp down on any form of radicalisation and polarisation.
And we must take decisive action against those who endeavour, by means of opportunist and populist policies, to stir up people' s fears and worries in order to make political mileage out of it.
(Applause)
It is young people, in particular, that we must warn against policies of this kind, and against the risks these policies present to their own future.
Present-day Austria, which was resurrected from the ruins of the second world war in 1945, was the product of a generation that learnt the lessons of the terrible experiences of the first half of the twentieth century - from the pessimism and resignation, the propensity to violence and susceptibility to delusions.
From the very outset, the Second Republic was marked by the firm commitment of the Austrian people to their State, and it was underpinned by their determination never again to allow themselves to fall prey to nationalism, extremism and xenophobia.
There are at present around 800 000 foreign nationals living in our country, which is approximately ten per cent of the total population.
Over the past few decades, Austria has admitted and integrated a total of one million people.
Therefore, in relation to the size of our country, we have offered more refugees sanctuary than any other Member State of the European Union.
(Applause)
Think of the waves of refugees that came from the East in 1945, from Hungary in 1956, from Czechoslovakia in 1968 and those that have come from former Yugoslavia over the past decade.
Then there are the large numbers of people from other countries.
In addition, Austria has helped Jewish emigrants from the former Soviet Union to travel to Israel and other countries or to stay with us.
There have certainly been many shortcomings as far as our more recent history is concerned, and we are more conscious of them these days.
For example, I would not wish to conceal how sad I am that Austria failed to invite the Jewish fellow citizens it expelled in 1938, to return, or did so only when it was far too late.
It is these very people - and this never ceases to move me - who have often continued to nurture a deep love for what used to be their native land, despite their terrible fate.
There is still a great deal of work to be done on the reappraisal of our past.
We will not be back on firm ground again until the historical facts have been laid bare, the victims have been compensated, and full cognisance has been taken of our historical responsibility.
However, as Federal President, I am also absolutely determined to counter any unwarranted criticism directed at Austria and its people, and to repudiate it emphatically.
There has been a great deal said and written over the past few weeks presenting a distorted picture of Austria and not the facts of the matter, be this for reasons of ignorance or superficiality.
I therefore appeal to the political leaders and also to the media in the European Union - in the very spirit of European values, which are justifiably regarded as the bedrock of the European unification process - to not lose sight of the need to be objective and fair.
I believe that it is in the interests of all Member States to commit themselves to obtaining a clear picture of the true situation in Austria, curtailing criticism, endeavouring to make common cause, and helping to speedily resolve, by means of dialogue, what is a difficult situation for all concerned.
(Applause)
I am also convinced that it is in the interests of the European Parliament to see to it that work within the European institutions proceeds in the proper manner and in accordance with the law, thereby securing Austria' s full and unconditional cooperation...
(Applause)
... particularly in view of the major issues facing us, such as EU enlargement, reform of the institutions and the European security policy.
Ladies and gentlemen, Austria is a stable democracy and a functioning state under the rule of law.
The Austrian constitution stipulates that the Federal Government must have the confidence of the Federal President.
This bestows a special responsibility on me, also with regard to the policies pursued by the government.
Therefore, working together with the leaders of the two governing parties, I have drafted a declaration which compels the government to uphold European fundamental values and principles of law.
As Federal President, another of my tasks is to represent the Republic abroad.
I have declared before this House on two previous occasions, in 1992 and 1998, that in view of its history and its position at the heart of Europe, Austria feels it has a special mission to make a committed contribution to the completion of the European unification and peace process.
There is no doubt but that Austria has a special interest in the enlargement of the European Union.
In view of the fact that we have coexisted down through the centuries with the people of Central and South-eastern Europe, we have gained a wealth of experience that could be of particular benefit to the enlargement process, which would be in the interests of Europe as a whole.
We do not want to be one of the EU' s border states forever, living along a frontier of affluence that runs through Europe.
Only enlargement will afford us the unique opportunity of creating an area of peace, stability and prosperity at the heart of Europe.
In a few days time, the next annual meeting of the Presidents of Central European countries will take place in Hungary.
Four Presidents attended the first meeting of this kind in Strasbourg in 1993, at my invitation, and there are now 12 participating countries.
We must also consider the position of the small and medium-sized States within the European Union.
This is one of those key, intrinsic elements that have characterised European integration from the outset.
The time when Europe' s history was dictated by the dominance of large powers is now past.
It is Central Europe that now has the unique opportunity to be at the heart of the new, enlarged Europe, and a lively Community, founded on a common history and shared experiences, and which can make a special contribution to the completion of European unification.
If the enlarged Europe of the future is to endure, then it must gain a full awareness of its common intellectual and cultural foundations.
All the people of Europe must play their part in this.
Thus, for example, that which we deem to be Austrian in our own culture is ultimately the product of a heritage drawn from European sources, from an awareness of the significance of the Central European area, from the historical and human links we have with the people of this region, from our practical experience of federalism and subsidiarity, and from the insight our common history has given us, namely that supranationality in no way implies the loss of one' s own identity.
If the enlargement process is to succeed, then the right conditions must be put in place within the Union for this to occur.
The second phase of the internal reform process began with the opening of the Intergovernmental Conference almost two months ago.
Austria welcomes with open arms the European Parliament' s involvement in the labours of the Intergovernmental Conference.
Indeed, when reforms were undertaken within the European Union in the past, it was often Parliament that made the most courageous and visionary proposals, thereby underlining in a credible manner its claim to be the parliamentary driving force of European integration.
Security policy is also one of the major challenges facing the European Union.
Bearing in mind the terrible conflicts that have plagued our continent over the past few years, largely in the south-east, it is also essential for the countries of Europe to unite over the issue of a common defence.
Military crisis management is precisely the area in which Europe must be seen to have a particularly high degree of credibility, determination and strength.
I am pleased that the debate on this important issue began under the Austrian EU Presidency.
More milestones were reached at the EU Cologne and Helsinki summits.
Before the European Council takes place in Nice, we must create the conditions that will enable the Union to realise its ambitious goal of creating a European capacity for crisis management.
Austria declares its solidarity with those who wish to see the European Union become a security and defence community.
We know that the security of a union is indivisible and we know that the key to the future security of our own country is to work with each other and for each other.
Another matter of special concern to me is the framing of a European Union Charter of Fundamental Rights, relating as it does to quite crucial issues pertaining to the protection and furtherance of fundamental and human rights, and to making them more coherent and effective.
This is further illustration of the fact that in many respects, Austria' s stance accords with that of the European Parliament.
What we need to do today, therefore, is to further deepen the European Union in important areas and to tailor it to the requirements of the twenty first century.
What continues to be of overriding importance is that this is the first time our continent has been peacefully and democratically united.
That is what makes this process so unique, but also so vulnerable.
We must make quite clear to those who are already taking the idea of a united Europe for granted, that it is of fundamental importance to the peace and stability of the whole of Europe to press on with the European integration process.
Democracy is always a painstaking business.
It is especially important in this great union of European countries for democracy to have the active participation of the Europeans, to whose scrutiny we must lay ourselves open on a daily basis.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation Austria currently finds itself in is an unpleasant and grave one for my country and, above all, for its people.
However, it is also unpleasant and grave for the other 14 Member States of the European Union.
There have been no indications of any kind that Austria is deviating from the path of parliamentary democracy and European values it has trodden hitherto.
I therefore appeal to you to join me, and my country, in seeking and finding a solution to this situation, in the interests of the people of my country, but also in the interests of the European Union.
On a final note, allow me to thank you once again for inviting me to speak here in the European Parliament.
I can assure you that Austria will continue to work towards the completion of the European project of peace and unification, using all the strength and conviction it can muster.
We Austrians are committed Europeans, and we intend to stay that way!
(Loud, sustained applause)
