Mr President, I should like to congratulate the rapporteur on an excellent piece of work.
We have what are per se excellent basic documents in the field of renewable energy sources, such as the White Paper referred to, which contains a brilliant critical analysis.
But, on balance, everyone is in favour.
Everyone says yes, we need these new sources of energy.
They are a fundamental component of the 21st century, of the 21st century way of thinking.
But everyone has slightly different ideas and, as a result, we often fail to find a standard line which will allow us to achieve these objectives.
The second point is that we tend to polarise, and that causes problems.
On the one hand, we say, there are the advocates of renewable energy sources, ecologically-minded, forward-looking people.
On the other hand, there are the energy suppliers, oil traders and oil producers, who want exactly the opposite.
All we are doing is fanning the flames of enmity.
I think we should put this enmity behind us and acknowledge that these renewable sources of energy only have one enemy.
That enemy is our ignorance of the fantastic opportunities which they offer us.
First, there are ecological advantages and, secondly, there are job opportunities.
Thirdly, I think that whatever we invest in this area is neither subsidy nor promotion but sensible investment from a national economic point of view.
We must recognise that.
Fourthly, we must bear in mind that sources of fossil fuels have been accompanied recently by price fluctuations ranging from 10 to 30 dollars a barrel.
Fifthly, more and more studies are implying that actual sources of fossil fuels are much smaller than we perceive them to be today.
Sixthly, we are conducting discussions throughout the world - and we can see this happening from Chechnya via the Gulf to Africa - about earth' s remaining resources.
If we now recognise that you are also a bringer of peace, then we will probably have made a huge step if we accept this report tomorrow.
