Mr President, it is not often that one has cause to simply feel glad about something in the all too ponderous run of things in the European Parliament.
However, the report by Duff and Voggenhuber has given us cause for this today.
I would particularly like to take this opportunity to highlight how doggedly they have pursued their goal.
All too often one has the feeling in this House, that notwithstanding all verbal declarations, the superior might and advantages enjoyed by the Council and the Commission prevail, and all too often, this is where the interests of national parties and governments win through as well.
Duff and Voggenhuber, on the other hand, think of themselves as true European Parliamentarians whose task it is to further the interests of Europe as a whole.
And so tomorrow, we will be able to adopt a report, which is based on the premise that naturally the European Parliament, and not the national governments, would be responsible for instituting the fundamental rights of the European Union.
This Charter will only meet the needs of the citizens of Europe under two provisos.
Firstly, it must be given substance, and secondly, it must be made binding in law.
However, it is stunningly disappointing to note how the Convention, which has been specifically set up for this purpose, is high on competences but very low in courage.
And so really, this report could also be viewed as an appeal to the Convention that goes like this: 'Dare to do something at long last!
Dare to include innovations in the Charter, particularly those in the sphere of information and biotechnology, but also where equal rights for women and environmental protection are concerned.
Dare to do more than just spend time in the glass palace of Parliament talking about the people of Europe - get out there and involve them!
And dare to adopt the standards on international labour law set by the International Labour Organisation.'
The Charter is precisely the instrument we need to give Europe a soul, and it could help create a common identity.
Why is it that EU governments are so quick off the mark when it comes to pushing through economic reforms but so hesitant when it comes to political rights?
Do you not realise that Europe as we know it will fall apart if we put all our efforts into bringing on the economy and do not do anything to promote political fundamental rights?
Conscious of my position as an Austrian, I would therefore like to make the following appeal to the national governments: 'wake up, it is in your own interests to give fundamental rights a chance!
With this in mind, I hope the report in question achieves an overwhelming majority in plenary tomorrow.
