Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank our rapporteur very warmly for his report.
The European Commission' s annual report on trans-European networks once again sets out the progress made with many transport projects and emphasises the important part the TENs play in protecting the environment.
I take the view that the 14 projects decided at Essen play a very significant role in the extension of the European transport networks and, like many speakers before me, I want to stress the enormous importance of the Brenner base-level tunnel.
Alpine transit must be looked at and understood as an overall problem.
Certainly Austria, France and the neighbouring states are affected most.
To show you or make you more aware of the seriousness of the situation, let me tell you that about 30% of transit traffic round Switzerland goes via the Brenner, which means that Austria bears the main burden.
It should also be noted that in Austria, 80% of goods are carried by road and only 20% by rail, while in Switzerland the proportion is exactly the reverse.
When some people ask why Austria is getting so agitated, since surely there is a similar volume of traffic elsewhere too, for instance in the Ruhr region, I have to reply yes, that is true, but the topographical features of Tyrol, of the Inntal, simply differ from those in other areas, such as the plains.
Moreover, the Inntal in Austria is one of the most densely populated regions.
Alpine transit is an integral problem which needs to be addressed in integral terms.
We cannot look separately at Brenner, toll roads and Alpine transit.
As for carrying out the construction timetables, I can say that we already have definite construction schedules in the Lower Inntal.
Now we also need a clear political resolve, and not just on the part of the Member States.
What we need is cross-financing.
I would consider the transport costs directive an appropriate legal basis.
I think that would give us sound financing.
I call for public-private partnerships, for I think working together is the best way to succeed.
We have a massive problem with north-south transit.
I am against further studies of the Brenner Pass, for we already have enough of them as it is.
What we need is to complete the Brenner base-level tunnel rapidly, for the sake of the population concerned, the environment and a sustainable, forward-looking transport policy.
