Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Commissioner, first of all may I thank Mrs Ruth Hieronymi for the marvellous manner in which she has cooperated with our committee and for the outstanding degree of cooperation in all the committees and across the political spectrum.
We have concentrated on the key points.
Everyone has made compromises in order to try and improve still further a programme which was already very good from the outset.
I speak now for the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs and wish to focus on two aspects of the programme.
Like the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, with which we reached agreement on these points, we also call for an increase in these limited budgetary resources and an addition to the legal basis - not a change, but an addition!
Why do I, or my colleagues in the Legal Affairs Committee, see a connection between these things?
I believe that everything is global, that art and culture, like everything else, are subject to these laws.
One reason why there has to be a European cultural policy is that the nation states are no longer able to pursue their cultural policies alone.
Where the European Union can intervene, as it is already doing in MEDIA Plus, it should be able to continue doing so with a greater volume of financial resources.
The Council should be called to account here.
I believe, Commissioner, that Parliament is actually playing into the hands of the Commission when we say that we want more money in order to be able to guarantee the pursuit of a European cultural policy, and that is also the reason why we should like an addition to the legal basis.
To prevent any misunderstanding, let me say that our aim here is not to subsidise the film industry but rather to ensure that more European films can be watched in Europe.
First of all, we have to win over this European territory in its entirety so that we can continue to operate efficiently.
I do not think that I need speak for my full two minutes if I can focus on these two points.
We should like more money, and we should like this addition to the legal basis.
No doubt you will be able to echo these sentiments, Madam Commissioner.
