Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to briefly discuss the area of freedom, security and justice and the key aspects thereof, and on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, I can safely say that the key aspects have been very well-chosen.
You certainly give the main challenges the attention they deserve.
One of the key aspects you mention is asylum and migration.
It is absolutely essential that this should be so, for we do not have minimum standards in matters of asylum, nor have we taken the first steps towards implementing the Dublin Convention or made real progress towards implementing EURODAC.
Tackling organised crime and the prevention thereof is another of the key aspects you cited.
That too is absolutely essential, given that as much as 25 to 30% of crime can be attributed to organised crime.
This is another area where we need to go one step further and quickly get on with setting up the European police academy, for example, so as to ensure that officers are trained to the same standard across-the-board.
Another key aspect you mentioned was the need to combat money laundering.
You have our full backing on this as well, for money laundering is partly what motivates organised crime.
The fourth point you touched on was judicial cooperation.
Here, I am sorry to say, we are lagging behind police cooperation by some 10 to 20 years, and we urgently need a catching-up programme.
You have our full support, but I want to make the point that such issues have come up for discussion every year.
As far as we are concerned, the crucial step forward has been that we now have a scoreboard that actually lays down responsibilities and timeframes, and affords us the opportunity to undertake checks twice a year and demand that responsibilities be carried out to completion.
You have our support in matters of transparency and when it comes to the momentum created at Tampere, which we want to keep going, and you have our support because there is a possibility of bringing pressure to bear on the Council.
But at the end of the day, we can only hope to put the scoreboard, and all that goes with it, into practice, if all the Council representatives actually abide by the spirit of the treaties and the treaties themselves.
Only then will it be possible for you to implement your proposals, in conjunction with us, to good effect.
Anyhow, you can count on our support !
