Mr President, Commissioner Nielson, the conclusion of the new ACP-EU Convention is an important step towards greater coherence.
And it is to be welcomed that criteria such as human rights, democracy, rule of law, and good governance are more firmly anchored in this new treaty than they were previously, and that earlier colonial relations no longer shape most of our relations to quite the same extent, rather, we now set greater store by these political criteria in this respect.
For these are prerequisite to any development.
If these criteria are not adhered to, then development does not stand a chance
The same goes for Cuba, Mr Modrow.
I welcome the fact that Cuba is getting closer to joining this process.
But for this to happen, there are also going to have to be a few changes in Cuba.
After all, we are all familiar with the reports from Amnesty International.
It may well be that you, having belonged to one of the last Communist dictatorships, view the situation somewhat differently to the majority of people in this Chamber, and that you have problems where good governance is concerned.
Nonetheless, these are important criteria for the European Union.
There is a second issue I would like to raise.
We are discussing coherence here.
Many speakers have cited examples of the extent to which the various policies are not coherent.
In my view, however, the development policy itself needs to be more coherent too.
There is no coherence because there is still no effective coordination with the Member States and there are some projects being carried out by the Member States and the European Union in the developing countries which are very much at odds with one another.
Nor is there coherence vis-à-vis the European taxpayer when we draft a development policy which is accommodated in the Union' s budget but the EDF remains outside it.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if in future you succeed in making this EUR 13.5 billion subject to the supervision of the parliamentary Committee on Budgetary Control, and to bodies such as OLAF, then I believe you will raise the level of acceptability.
This, to my mind, is also something that we should call upon the Intergovernmental Conference to do, i.e. establish the EDF firmly in the budget of the European Union.
