Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioners, in my view, this strategy paper has two clear weaknesses.
There is no point in drawing up a new economic and social agenda if you have not even finished the old one.
I am thinking of transport policy and regional policy.
You have excellent Commissioners for both issues in Mrs Palacio and Mr Barnier, yet still you attach too little importance to these areas.
And do you know why?
Just look at transport policy; clearly it is crucial for this policy to be drawn up as a economically and ecologically sensible policy before the accession of other countries.
I would be grateful if the President of the Commission would listen to what I have to say, although of course he has no obligation to do so.
Let me give you three examples.
First: we need reasonable deregulation of the railway sector because we want to shift freight from the roads to the railways.
That makes sense from an economic and an ecological point of view.
Without deregulation we will not make any headway with a reasonable transport policy.
The same applies to European air traffic control.
Our citizens cannot understand that we are deregulating air traffic, but leaving 15 different sectors in the skies which are under national control, which have an adverse economic impact on the airlines and which pollute the environment.
You still have not finished that agenda.
Commissioner, far too little is said in your paper about regional policy.
Economic and social cohesion in the EU is a fundamental task of this Community.
If we fail to complete it, citizens in less favoured regions will dread enlargement.
We must show them that we intend to use the next five years to help them join the rich regions by promoting the less favoured regions using reasonable means.
Then they too will be prepared to really support enlargement and help to achieve it.
Mr President of the Commission, if we do not manage to create true solidarity between the rich and the poor regions, then this Union will be all the poorer and it will not meet with the approval of the people.
