Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely grateful for the word of advice and would like to make a few comments supplementary to Mr Laschet' s report, which has my full backing as representative of the Foreign Affairs Committee.
It looks to be an isolated case of no great significance, but as he said towards the end of his statement, this is about momentous moves to set the course for the future, as well as about sending out signals.
That is why it is absolutely vital to secure supervisory powers and opportunities for participation for the European Parliament.
I am grateful for the fact that the Committee on Budgets has provided proposals that do justice to my committee' s intentions.
I believe it is necessary, for example when special representatives are appointed, for us to have a say in each individual case.
I think it is vital for the Commission to grasp that what we are doing here is setting a course of decisive importance for future foreign and security policy.
In our view, practically all the financial resources for civil crisis management have been at the disposal of the Commission' s budget to date.
I believe this instrument should be used and not watered down by making this sphere, like others, increasingly subject to intergovernmentalisation.
There are moves afoot within the Council that I would describe as extraordinarily dangerous, in that it is deemed acceptable to have matters that are traditionally the preserve of the Community and the first pillar settled exclusively by Foreign Ministers.
If we were to go along with this, then we would forfeit all hope of being able, firstly, to emphasise the special significance of the civil aspect and, secondly, to communitarise the common foreign and security policy in the long term, in the context of the interplay between civil and military crisis management, because we would then be committing ourselves to going in an entirely different direction, as is very much the trend in many national capitals these days.
For this reason, I would urge you and also the Commission to make a fitting contribution, not just in the interests of Parliament, so as to enable it duly to have its say, for this is about the Commission' s role in shaping future foreign and security policy.
That is perhaps even more significant than the parliamentary interests we see fit to bring to bear here.
Therefore, I am grateful for having 50% more speaking time!
We should take the opportunity to make Parliament' s views on this clear and to enter into close cooperation with the Commission, because it is at apparently inconsequential junctures such as this that the tone is set for the future development of the entire European Union.
