Mr President, Mr Solana, I don' t want to repeat everything that has already been said here.
I will confine myself to asking more questions, as you suggested we should do.
I regard the Stability Pact as the best idea we have ever had.
However, it must also actually be made to work in such a way that it does not just serve to create frustrations, hence my questions.
Firstly: to what extent are you able to influence the professionalism of the Council' s decisions?
Could you at last bring about change in this respect?
Let me give you an example: there is an institution in Thessaloniki that does not actually exist at all as yet, but it has been set up, namely the Reconstruction Agency for whatever, for the whole of the Balkan region.
At the same time, the Stability Pact was established here in Brussels with a single coordinator.
Can you tell me how much synergy is lost here and why the Council allows something like that to happen?
This is grossly unprofessional!
Can you prevent this from happening in future?
Secondly, when you talk to the Ministers for Home Affairs on Saturday it must not just be about the remote possibility of sending police officers.
I would ask you quite specifically: the police officers in Kosovo at present number scarcely a third of those promised and who are due to travel there.
KFOR could step up its presence in Mitrovica and be stationed in crisis areas of Kosovo if its current tasks were to be taken on by policemen.
Thirdly, could you convince the Council of the fact that its rhetoric at summit meetings must at last be put into practice, in the form of additional financial resources?
We need a special fund for crisis regions, so that we are not always taking funds away from other necessary tasks for which financial provision has already been made from other sources; in other words, so as to avoid having to reallocate this money to implement ideas that the Council has suddenly hit on.
We need a crisis fund which can then be used to pay for such eventualities.
Lastly, a word on the subject of Chechnya.
It is all well and good, and touching, when we wring our hands over the mass graves and the refugees.
Only I have to ask myself what have we actually done to try and prevent it?
Why did we not send an intervention force there when all this was happening?
(Heckling from Mr Cohn-Bendit) We cannot do that, my dear Daniel.
Why have we not stopped sending the money that is financing the army over there?
I believe that is what our task ought to have been, and you could play a part in this!
