Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two weeks ago an interparliamentary conference on the human rights situation in China was held at the European Parliament in Brussels.
We Members of the European Parliament agreed, together with the Foreign Minister of the Tibetan government in exile, the US government official responsible for Tibet and members of national parliaments, that it is time we put an end to shady compromises with China for the sake of maintaining purely economic relations.
The Chinese are still refusing to enter into a constructive dialogue with His Holiness the Dalai Lama, and political repression is on the increase.
People are being mercilessly persecuted, and religious freedom and freedom of speech are being curbed.
Tibet' s culture and identity are being systematically obliterated.
These continual violations of the most fundamental human rights must now become an issue.
The United States needs the support of the European Union at the 56th UN Commission on Human Rights in Geneva.
The European Union must use its inherent authority to work for human dignity and minority rights.
If it takes the first step, other countries, including the candidate countries, will certainly follow suit.
My own group, the Group of the European People's Party, is firmly convinced of this.
Commissioner Lamy, Europe needs to stick its head above the parapet.
The Commission and the Council belong at the head of a movement fully supporting the Dalai Lama' s five-point peace plan.
Point one: Tibet must become a peace zone.
Point two: China must finally renounce its policy of expulsion.
Point three: democratic civil rights must be guaranteed for all minorities.
Point four: Tibet' s culture and environment must be protected.
Point five: genuine negotiations must take place on Tibet' s future autonomous status.
Commissioner, all our economic agreements with third countries need to be based on the same premise: respect for human rights.
You demonstrated in Seattle, Commissioner Lamy, and I was there to see for myself, that you know how to build bridges.
How did a Tibetan delegate put it?
"We will survive because of your moral support, but above all because of your solidarity" !
Tashi delek!
