Mr President, Mr Fischler, concerning the Attwooll report, I have just this minute had an impromptu discussion with your assistant about the database, and I welcome this kind of cooperation with open arms.
I grew up by the North Sea.
Therefore, as a child of the coast, I have always followed North Sea happenings with fervent interest.
I think I can safely say that our maritime environment is unique.
We still have a considerable diversity of species in the water and on land.
However, biological diversity is under threat.
Exploitation by over-fishing, untreated industrial effluent, tanker accidents, extensive shipping traffic and rampant tourism are a massive threat to the balance of maritime flora and fauna.
But that is nothing new.
The Bergen conference made a good start.
What was exciting about this was the fact that for the first time, Environment and Fisheries Ministers worked together on "Coast" , a future marine programme.
All measures are underpinned by the transposition of existing regulations at European and international level, observance of scientific findings and the precautionary principle.
This also includes setting up a Community network of protected areas, known as "Natura 2000" for the recovery of the ecosystems of the North sea, as well as - I would recommend this - integrated management of coastal areas.
This all sounds good, but you can say what you like on paper, and everything would be fine if we were divine beings.
But we still do not have the fisheries data we need the most - as we have just heard - and there is also still a lack of willingness on the part of some Member States to make the necessary and agreed reductions in capacity.
Therefore, the end result must be seamless cooperation between the institutions from the time the fish are caught until they reach the consumer.
The only way to achieve this is by efficient monitoring, strict observance of regulations, applying the "polluter pays" principle (eventually), and using sanctions that hurt.
Our aim must be to fully integrate fisheries and environmental policy into EU policy, and let us not wait until the next millennium to do so!
