Mr President, I have taken the floor now spontaneously - as spontaneously as it is possible to do so in this Parliament - because a colleague from the group cannot be here.
But I am taking the floor as someone who until last April was a very ordinary civil servant in the German diplomatic service, and so people might perhaps think that I would be certain to be relatively sceptical about an approach of this kind because it will surely tend to erode the powers of national colleagues.
I am not sceptical, and I should like to warmly congratulate Mr Galeote Quecedo on his report.
I am, however, rather surprised at the strange scenarios depicted by some of the honourable members here.
What is this really about?
Mr Galeote Quecedo actually made this quite clear: there is a remit for the European Union to be represented in third countries and this is about us being represented there better and more professionally within its terms; it is about our people whom we post there being able to work as effectively as possible within their remit.
I do not wish to offend anybody, but if I imagine let's say a former national civil servant from the Ministry of Agriculture in a Member State coming into the Commission at some point and doing really outstanding work internally, and then being appointed to head perhaps an external delegation or a Commission representation abroad, I think that this person would definitely still gain from learning what national colleagues will have perhaps learnt at a diplomatic college.
And I believe that this would allow the person to do their job even more successfully.
Similarly, however, I should also like to say that this remit will of course grow in conjunction with powers at European level.
In this respect, both the fears expressed by Mr Coûteaux on the one hand, and the hopes expressed by Mr Dupuis on the other, are certainly justified.
As the tasks broaden, so the power devolved to these representations will increase, but this is also what we, as a body, have all wanted.
Seen from this point of view, it is good if we already start making appropriate preparations now.
I believe that the report drafted by Mr Galeote Quecedo is a very good one.
