Mr President, on 28 June the EU held its first summit with the largest democracy in the world and the second-largest trading power in Asia.
India - and Commissioner Patten made this point - whose importance is often underestimated, has finally received the recognition which, in the light of its economic and political dynamism, it deserves.
In the end the time was not wasted in exchanging pleasantries.
It was possible to sign real agreements.
It is not only for us, the EU, as India's largest trading partner, that it is important for further protectionist barriers to be dismantled and for liberalisation to be able to continue.
The response to the reform process is significant additional investment from Europe.
In mid-April our SAARC Delegation - of which I am Vice-Chairman - was able to see very clearly for itself in Delhi how much progress has already been made in restructuring the economy.
In the new economy - information technology, for example - we are once again the most important partner.
But we will only be able to take advantage of these well-trained technicians and qualified employees if the idea - which has not been thought through - of having a system of green cards is finally dismissed.
A green card with a time limit will not work at all.
We need cooperation between European and Indian companies.
Employees can then be posted anywhere and they will have clear contracts which are valid throughout the world.
At the summit, think tanks, contacts with NGOs and new networks were discussed.
We have shared values.
All the more important then are the respect for human rights, ethnic minorities and dissidents and the abolition of child labour.
This is in no way a uniquely western way of thinking; these values are at the root of a shared democratic consciousness.
The fight against unemployment and exclusion needs to be fought with the same intensity as the fight against terrorism and crime, and this was agreed by both sides.
I hope now that the meeting of political and economic leaders will be the first page in a new book in which young people from universities, schools and businesses will also play their part.
So Mr President, let us support exchange programmes so that people can meet one another, understand one another's way of thinking and in the future work alongside one another!
