Madam President, I should like to expressly thank Mr Belder for his report.
Racism, xenophobia and antisemitism are a depressing problem, including within the European Union.
Fighting them is one of the common goals of almost every political group in this House.
This House is prepared to exercise diplomatic restraint in many areas, but not on this question.
And rightly so.
Mr Belder knows that I and the committee wished to quote the specifics of individual problems in candidate countries.
A number of proposed amendments by Baroness Ludford attempt to rectify this and I shall support them.
The way in which the social causes of racism in candidate countries and the highly significant social and employment policy consequences of a consistent anti-racist policy have been dealt with appears to me to be too general.
The fact that Mr Belder was prepared to clearly address the question of antisemitism is one of the most important results of the discussion process and I again extend my thanks to Mr Belder.
Leafing through the various positions of the Commission, the European Parliament, the Council of Europe and the Vienna Monitoring Centre, one is struck by the fact that antisemitism is quoted as a particular and particularly dangerous form of racism in several headlines, but only in the headlines.
There is almost a total lack of analytical appraisal or special programmes to combat it.
And as far as the Commission programmes in the candidate countries are concerned, Commissioner, the word "almost" can be dispensed with.
I consider this an unacceptable oversight and I therefore refer this question to you specifically.
Antisemitism is, without doubt, widespread; often it is latent, which complicates the issue.
This morning in this House we were witness to one of its most repulsive forms, when the age-old assertion that the Jews themselves are responsible for antisemitism was repeated.
This debate should therefore be a separate and very, very specific task for us and the Commission.
