Madam President, firstly, I would like, on behalf of my Group, to thank Mr Beysen, our vice-chairman in the Legal Affairs Committee, for having drafted the report so rapidly and for recommending that we adopt the common position in its unamended form.
One of the reasons we should take this advice is that it was hard enough to reach this modest compromise in the Council as it was, and we would not wish to jeopardise it.
That does not mean, however, that we can actually be satisfied with this compromise; it is only the first step along the way.
If you ask companies what they think of the EU internal market, more often than not you hear people say that they are positive about everything on the whole, that it is an OK thing as far as they are concerned.
There are two problem areas.
One concerns the disparities in VAT levels and the other relates to the statistics and numerous forms that have to be filled out.
We are well aware that business people like to whinge; it goes with the territory.
But when you hear these comments in Austria, of all places, a country that is more than a little resourceful when it comes to forms and bureaucratic requirements, and which found itself to be even more snowed under after joining the European Union, it really makes you think.
I can cite examples of companies that have to report the official registration number of lorries they are expecting to collect goods as much as three to four weeks prior to their anticipated arrival.
The next important step is to raise the simplification threshold to a minimum of EUR 200 000.
The Commission was asked to examine this step via the Council Decision.
We also know from past experience that, in principle, the Commission is very much in favour of taking this step.
Therefore, might I ask Commissioner Solbes Mira what initiatives we can expect the Commission to come up with and will there be another proposal to this effect?
Likewise, more simplification measures are called for within the framework of the SLIM 2 project.
