Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, I would like to highlight three demands that we have to make of the Intergovernmental Conference, although all of them relate to the same facts.
We are now approaching the time when we will have a Community with a single currency and a common currency policy that is largely dictated by the European Central Bank.
But we still have 15 different economic policies in the Member States of the European Union, and we will only succeed in the long-term if this economic policy is framed according to common principles.
Hence our first demand is that we should firmly establish the social market economy, which adds a human dimension to the functioning of the market, in the European Treaty, as a model for our economic policy.
Our second demand is for Parliament' s participation in the drafting of the economic policy guidelines, which we have already discussed here today, to be placed on a more formal footing, i.e. the Commission should present us not with a recommendation but a formal proposal, on which we can then be consulted in the true sense of the word.
Our third demand relates to competition policy.
On the one hand, competition policy is the key to the social market economy, on the other hand, however, it is also the most robust instrument of economic policy that the European Community has at its disposal.
Numerous decisions on individual cases are taken in matters of competition policy and that is quite clearly the task of the Commission.
But in future, whenever general rules are drawn up, or the Commission drafts guidelines in conjunction with the Council of Ministers, then the European Parliament must also be involved in the codecision procedure, for only then will Parliament be able to realise its goal of becoming a fully-fledged member of the European forum, where European economic policy is not just discussed publicly, but is also framed with the participation of Parliament.
