Mr President, the decision relating to discharge for the 1997 financial year was postponed because the erstwhile Commission, to whom it was to be granted, had stepped down before the appointed time and was only continuing in office in a caretaker capacity.
Mrs van der Laan' s report - on which she has lavished a great deal of hard work, and for which we are indebted to her - proposes that we should grant discharge to the Commission for 1997.
One might ask how it is that the current Commission is to receive the discharge for its predecessor' s budgetary management - Mr Camre just mentioned this - particularly as the discharge for the previous year, 1996, was denied.
That is just the way things are, however.
In taking over the mandate, the new Commission has to assume responsibility not just for the achievements of the past but also for the mistakes made.
Since, on account of the college system, discharge can only be granted to the Commission as a whole or, alternatively, denied or postponed, it is no longer of any consequence that four former Commissioners who belonged to the previous Commission that has yet to be discharged, crop up again as Members of this body.
This question ought to have been asked when the new Commission was appointed.
If Parliament votes in favour of the Committee on Budgetary Control' s proposal this week and grants discharge, then the Commission must not take this to be a blank cheque.
For it is the third section of Mrs van der Laan' s report that is the most important, to my mind, namely the motion for a resolution.
The comments contained within, under eight headings, are an integral part of the discharge, the implementation of which forms the basis of our decision.
In the course of the discharge procedure for the coming years - that for 1998 is already under way - Parliament will have to examine, as a matter of urgency, whether or not it was too quick to bestow premature praise on the Commission for 1997.
We will be in a position to judge just as soon as the Commission presents its reform programme.
We will be able to use the discharge procedure for 1998 to check whether efficiency, transparency and accountability, and likewise a sincere willingness to provide information, are being displayed vis-à-vis the discharge authority.
