Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, thank you all very much for the commitment you have shown in the discussion we have been having.
It has become quite evident that there need to be two strands to our approach.
Firstly, preventative measures, i.e. we must consider how we can improve the guidelines, maritime law, etc. in the various sectors in such a way as to lessen the risk of disasters of this kind happening in the future.
Secondly, what can we do to help the area in which the disaster happens?
Now I think you should know that my colleague, Mrs de Palacio, has already included three very specific proposals in the interservice procedure.
I hope that the Commission will adopt these proposals before the end of March, for this will enable us to make progress on the preventative measures front.
These three proposals are quite specific.
Firstly, it is proposed that national supervision of ship safety should be stepped up and secondly, that the Commission' s supervision of the organisations responsible for assessing safety conditions on board ships should be reinforced.
Thirdly, following a transition period, we want single-hulled tankers to be completely banned from travelling through EU waters.
I believe these measures will enable us to make true progress.
In addition, further measures have been planned for later in the year, and we will certainly examine the flags of convenience issue in the process.
As far as aid is concerned, many people have asked for the budget line for compensation to be re-instated.
However, I would ask you to recall how much money was earmarked for this budget line.
The money available under this line was not a meaningful amount in aid terms.
I clearly remember having major debates in this House on BSE, and people saying what a placebo it all was and how it would do no good at all in reality.
The only way to deliver aid of any consequence is through the programmes I have described to you.
As I have already indicated, the ball is now in the French Government' s court.
I have given you my promise that as soon as we receive the programmes from France, we will examine and also approve them with all haste.
