Mr President, the report contains important conditions for future candidate countries, thereby granting human rights problems the same status as economic conditions.
We particularly welcome the fact that the problem of religious freedom was mentioned, as some countries, especially the Czech Republic, have already passed very restrictive laws against religious minorities.
The passage on the human rights situation within the EU is also interesting and gives the EU no cause whatsoever to take the moral high ground vis-à-vis new candidate countries.
We Austrians now find ourselves in a situation, ostensibly in order to safeguard human rights, in which we no longer know whether to laugh or cry.
A few weeks ago, taxi drivers in Brussels were refusing to take Austrian passengers.
Austrians were thrown out of hotels and restaurants in Belgium and France.
Our assistants' French teachers declared that they no longer wished to teach Nazis and school exchange programmes were cancelled.
Austrians working abroad had their cars vandalised, stones thrown at their houses and their children were threatened at school.
Today it was revealed that the Austrian entrant in a show jumping competition in Grenoble had his invitation withdrawn.
The town council in Grenoble held lengthy discussions on whether or not the horse was welcome but, in the end, its invitation was also withdrawn as it had not expressly distanced itself from the Austrian government.
Perhaps we shall soon see Mozart banned from international opera houses.
Who knows where it will all end.
Whoever takes political responsibility for this anti-fascist Punch and Judy show here in the House and in the EU countries in question has cause to be proud.
I can assure the previous speakers, who call me Satan' s sidekick, that I am not hiding a cloven hoof beneath the benches.
If this irrational collective hatred against an entire nation can be so readily called upon in the EU, we are a long way from being in a position to dictate to other countries.
If only all these good people who take the floor here had lived sixty or more years ago, just think what Europe could have spared itself.
