Mr Trakatellis, the agreement between the Commission and the government of Bulgaria that was signed on 29 November 1999 is in line with the policy that the Commission tends to pursue.
This policy proposes shutting down those reactors in the case of which, upgrading to internationally recognised safety standards would not be financially tenable.
The agreement concluded between the Bulgarian Government and the Commission provides for units 1 and 2 of the nuclear power station at Kozloduy to be conclusively shut down before 2003.
In addition, provision is made for the government of Bulgaria to reach agreement with the Commission in the year 2002 on deadlines for shutting down units 3 and 4 of the same power station.
All four units will be shut down earlier than the dates that the Bulgarian Government originally had in mind, which were 2004 and 2005 for Kozloduy 1 and 2, and between 2008 and 2010 for units 3 and 4.
The Commission is working on the assumption that the final shut down of the two reactors 3 and 4 will take place in 2006 at the latest.
The Commission is offering to provide Bulgaria with several years of extensive aid, so as to help the country overcome any problems arising from the shutdown.
This includes grants from the PHARE programme to the value of EUR 200 million and a EURATOM loan.
The various components of the aforementioned agreement form an integrated whole.
In order to ensure full implementation of the agreement, we will not confirm our undertaking to provide the second tranche of the grants until we have reached conclusive agreement on shutdown dates for units 3 and 4.
Both components of the aid package - the EURATOM loan as well as the grant - will depend on how and whether Bulgaria fulfils its obligation to shut down the blocks.
On 4 February 2000, the joint working group on Kozloduy comprising representatives from the Commission and from Bulgaria, met in Sofia.
This joint working group agreed to draft a work schedule for the shutdown of units 1 and 2, by May or June 2000, and to put forward a political framework and potential projects in the energy sector that are to be financed by the aid package.
The Commission would like to point out that Bulgaria did not take the decision to shut down operations lightly.
The decision shows, however, that the Bulgarian Government, as required under the terms of the enlargement process, subscribes to the European Union' s commitments to achieve higher safety standards in the nuclear sector.
The Commission will continue to work together with the Bulgarian Government to implement the agreement of last November.
This cooperation will also take place under the auspices of the accession partnership, which has made this task one of its priorities.
