Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kuckelkorn' s report deals with a very important and very sensitive issue, namely pensions.
In almost all Member States the pension systems comprise three elements: statutory pension schemes, company pension schemes and supplementary private pension schemes.
The point has already been made on numerous occasions that action is called for, in view of the falling birth rate within the European Union, to make pension schemes more efficient than they have been hitherto.
Discussion is currently ongoing in all Member States as to how we can reform the pensions system.
All Member States are also agreed that our goal must be to safeguard people' s standard of living in old age.
Statutory pensions will no longer be able to fulfil this task on their own in the medium- to short-term.
Consequently it is only right to extend pensions in the second pillar, i.e. company pensions, and private pension provisions.
As has already been said repeatedly, the Kuckelkorn report concerns itself with pensions in the second pillar, i.e. company pensions.
What do we understand pensions to mean?
Again, as has already been said, opinions differ here.
I intend to confine myself to this point in what I have to say.
In many Member States, pensions are understood to mean the safeguarding of fundamental aspects of life.
This entails covering what are known as the biometric risks, and providing financial security in old age, in the event of invalidity or for surviving dependants in the event of the death of the insured party.
What this actually means, for example, is that an employee who has a car accident at the age of 35 and becomes an invalid, receives not only the capital he has paid in up to that point but also a proper company pension, because he is the same position as if he had worked until he was 60 years old.
The same applies when a 35 year-old employee has a fatal car accident, leaving a wife and two children.
If the biometric risks have been covered, then the surviving dependants will receive a proper company pension in this case as well, and not just the capital he had paid in up until his death.
We must ensure that the concept of a pension is not just understood to mean a form of savings scheme, for a capital investment...
(The President cut the speaker off.)
