Mr President, whilst I too wish to express my dismay at the ongoing prejudice displayed towards Austria by 14 Member States, I would like to take the opportunity to comment on the opinion of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which refers to a number of very important areas.
The diversity of cultural traditions in Europe is not just a colourful mosaic of artistic activities but gives expression to cultural, religious and also national diversity, to a sense of belonging and a feeling of attachment to one' s native land.
Very often in the past, Parliament regarded culture as nothing more than a breeding ground for art.
However, it is much more than this, and cannot be separated from a minority' s sense of identity and its self-perception, therefore neither can it be separated from the rights of these groups, which are to be respected.
Most minority groups in Europe define themselves through their cultural traditions, and it will only be possible to afford them the protection they need if we make it possible for them to integrate into mainstream society, whilst respecting their own traditions.
If we are to acknowledge and comprehend these traditions, we will have to do more than register the differences purely as ethnic characteristics or as a list of discriminations.
We hear so much these days about the dangers of disregarding the rights of minorities, and very often this takes the form of cultural discrimination.
The debate about the human rights of minorities, xenophobia, and racism, particularly in the light of the enlargement process, is doomed to failure unless we re-define and extend our concept of culture.
Otherwise we will end up endlessly repeating hollow words that do not mean anything to most people these days.
The Convention should take account of these thoughts in its drafting of the Charter on Fundamental Rights.
In defining and reworking the concept of a minority' s culture, a new dimension will be added to this very important basis for identity, and cultural issues within the EU will not be treated as a mere colourful adjunct to our other very important responsibilities.
