Mr President, for many years now we have constantly been receiving new reports describing the depletion of the vital ozone layer.
At first, the hole in the ozone layer started getting bigger over the southern hemisphere, i.e. a long way away, and for some time now we have had to face the fact that the ozone layer is also changing over Europe.
Since 1976, the ozone layer over Europe has been contracting continuously, and is now depleted by 15%.
The Commission only informed us about this recently and warned against a rise in skin cancer ailments, allergies and eye disease.
People knew as early as the eighties which substances led to depletion of the ozone layer and continue to do so.
According to estimates, for every one per cent less of ozone, the earth is exposed to 2% more UV, which means that people are at greater risk of contracting skin cancer.
I am therefore delighted that a decision has at last been reached on such an urgent matter, which we will use to transpose the Montreal Protocol at Community level and to go even further in some respects than the demands that were raised there.
Although I endorse the outcome of the conciliation procedure, I make no bones about the fact that I am not satisfied.
I am referring to the issues that have been controversial to the last, concerning the ban on partially halogenated hydrochlorofluorocarbons, which are mainly used in refrigeration and air conditioning plants.
If we are going to opt for a ban on the use of these substances on the basis of definite findings pointing to the damaging effect they have on the ozone layer, then I would have hoped for a more consistent approach on the part of the Council as regards transitional periods and exemptions, particularly as ecofriendly alternative substances are available for all types of application.
I would remind you that the ban on using virgin HCFCs in refrigeration and air conditioning plants will not take effect until the year 2010, whereas the European Parliament had called for it to be 2005.
And in the case of recycled HCFCs, the full ban will not take effect until 2015, rather than 2007, which is what the European Parliament wanted.
But cleverly, a transitional clause was incorporated which allows for a modification of the phase-out date of recycled HCFCs.
I believe that reports on further damage to the ozone layer and also new scientific findings as regards alternative substances will soon show the present compromise up as having fallen too short.
Time will tell, and if my prognosis is right then the European Parliament will soon be raising the issue of the phase-out dates for partially halogenated HCFCs again, and will be in a position to deal with this matter in the interests of the environment and public health.
