Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the lack of speaking time available to me I would not wish to repeat anything that has already been said.
I can only lend wholehearted support to what the previous speakers and Mrs Maij-Weggen have had to say.
However I would like to add to the debt of gratitude we owe Mr Schori a word of thanks to the embassies of our Member States, who assisted us in the accreditation process, because we were faced with a rather chaotic situation at the time.
We have them to thank for the fact that we were able to take action over there.
If there is one thing that should be emphasised when forming an assessment of the situation in Zimbabwe it is that the farm occupations have nothing to do with the land or race issues.
It is no more than a despicable means of holding onto power.
That is not without its tragic side because President Mugabe and his party definitely rendered outstanding service to the land once.
The terror perpetrated by the so-called war veterans is intended to divert attention from the shortcomings of the political leadership of the country, which has pitched Zimbabwe into a deep crisis.
The country has been brought to the brink of ruin, tourism is at a standstill, investors have pulled out, and to make matters worse, there is an oil crisis and a lack of foreign exchange.
Tobacco production and tourism used to be the main sources of revenue and both these sectors have taken a real knock.
This cannot be made good overnight.
This is where support from the European Union comes in.
All in all, Zimbabwe has the right conditions in place for this, in that the population is educated to a comparatively high standard, the jurisdiction is incorruptible, and the infrastructure is relatively sound.
But we are already hearing about fresh occupations of farms and violent attacks.
President Mugabe must be left in no doubt as to the fact that the violence and terror must be stopped, but it will take more than that to restore peace to this country.
The political opposition will have to prove that it is politically viable.
The fact that it was possible for observers to be present meant that in the end, despite the terror, the opposition was able to express its opinion freely on voting day.
That being the case, the opposition now has a job to do which it must see through.
We must help to see that the rule of law is restored in this way.
