Mr President, we are undoubtedly making progress where the coordination of economic and monetary policy is concerned.
More flexible labour markets, new technologies, and securing market niches and better framework conditions for the establishment of innovative and creative enterprises, are all crucial to the European economy.
In terms of monetary policy, we are talking balanced budgets, low inflation and the development of a culture of stability.
The interests of both employer and employee coincide here.
However, it is not workable, at present, to synchronise economic and monetary policy with social policy, and that includes common, quantitative goals.
We PPE-DE Members of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs have made it clear on numerous occasions that the annual activity reports submitted by the Member States at least appear to be more topical, even though they continue to be produced on an individual basis.
A first, yet crucial step, would be to bring about convergence in social policy.
This would include a benchmarking procedure, with the exchange of comparable data and a shift of emphasis from action plans to the fight against exclusion and poverty.
It would be equally appropriate to streamline the various procedures adopted at Cardiff, Luxembourg and Cologne.
I only hope that we do not end up with a fourth, i.e. what is known as the Lisbon method.
We have enough labels, but not enough content.
Simplification, not complication, is what is called for.
If we are to improve social conditions then what we need are quality-orientated endeavours, such as more training and further education opportunities, so as to broaden the skills' base, and ensure an appropriate level of social protection and worker participation in profit and capital distribution.
There is a need to evaluate the annual progress, or lack of it, made by Member States in the fight against unemployment, and to take the necessary countermeasures.
The European Parliament must have greater involvement in this process.
We have made a start, with measures ranging from Employment Week in November, through to involving the two sides of industry and the NGOs, to our debates in plenary, which are completely open to public scrutiny.
