Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to extend my sincere congratulations to Mr van Velzen for his report and I would like to thank him warmly for his accommodating and constructive cooperation - it sets the tone for how this kind of report should be dealt with.
There are two questions which, to my mind, need to be asked about this report: how much regulation and what sort of regulation do we need to promote a competitive European internal market?
As I see it, three questions have emerged from our joint debate.
Firstly, there is the question as to what the role of the Member States should be.
European rules are needed for a European market, for example the unbundling of subscriber access, and of course the much-lamented principle of subsidiarity means that we need rules where they can best be made use of.
This may be at Member State level, but it may also be at EU level.
That being the case, we should at least issue a reminder about the need for reinforced cooperation and coordination between the national regulators in the Union.
The second issue - also raised by previous speakers - concerns the auctions, or beauty contests.
I will be quite honest with you, opinion is extremely divided in my group too, on which of the two is the best method.
I still think that auctions are the most viable way of finding the most efficient and effective operator in a competitive setting.
Of course it is a problem that some Member States opt for this method and others go for a different one.
That is bound to lead to distortions in competition.
When these come to light, surely it falls to the Commission to intervene.
We should learn our lesson from that and make sure that in future, everyone is treated equally.
Thirdly, how long can rules be put in place for?
There will need to be a review as of the year 2005, at all events, for no one is in a position to say at the present time what we will need in the way of new sector-specific rules in the year 2005, or indeed whether we will need them at all.
On a final note, I have a comment of a personal nature to make about the caller location system and the 112 emergency number.
We had a few discussions about this in committee.
I must admit that having lived behind the iron curtain in the Eastern block for four decades, and having grown up there, I am always sceptical about being monitored and controlled 'big brother is watching you' style.
I therefore think it is absolutely essential where the 112 emergency number is concerned, for the prior consent of the user to be required for the use of caller location facilities, even in the event of an emergency.
But that is something I personally feel strongly about.
We will find a reasonable solution when it comes to the vote.
