Mr President, I would like to take up what Mary Read had to say in her intervention, when she discussed the impact on jobs and employment.
It is simply not the case that the workers in our regions and constituencies are forever waiting with bated breath for us to liberalise previously protected sectors.
The reverse is often true.
We are going to have to answer a whole host of employees' questions about local public transport operatives over the next few weeks and months.
We, the representatives of the people, must provide these answers, and not the Commission, which will talk to the union leaders if need be.
One thing is for sure, unrestricted liberalisation and the opening up of markets, are no panacea.
However, market opening in the telecommunications sector itself, demonstrates that market opening can bring benefits for consumers in the form of falling prices and access to new services.
It has brought about rapid advances in technology, which, at the end of the day, will lead to an increase in jobs, even high-quality jobs in the major sectors.
The globalisation of our national economies has had a major stimulating effect on the liberalisation of telecommunications markets in Europe, and, conversely, has furthered development at international level.
It goes without saying that we need a certain number of commercial giants to be able to hold our own as a global player.
But this must not of course lead to new monopolies in markets and market sectors.
We need to adopt a rigorous competition policy with regard to commercial organisations, in order to ensure that no single company gains a dominant hold in the new market block formed by the telecommunications and multimedia sectors.
That is why we should support the Commission' s decision in matters such as WorldCom and Sprint.
We also hope that it will adopt a similarly rigorous approach where Time Warner and AOL are concerned.
Above all, though, the Commission must use its efforts to modernise competition law, particularly in respect of the regulation on merger control, as an opportunity to adopt an extremely rigorous approach to its reform undertakings too.
We hope this will not prove to be to the detriment of competition policy.
