Mr President, Commissioner, I know it is very late and not a lot of people are here.
That should be no surprise to you, however.
It happens not only, thank heavens, where cultural and educational matters are concerned but also in many other areas.
I think, though, that, as you yourself have already said, quality speaks for itself.
You have briefly commented upon your report and your amendments yourself.
I am an Austrian and know from experience that, in Austria, there is very good access to all universities and courses of study.
I should also like to make it clear that we have no problem giving ethnic minorities access to these, either.
We certainly do not lag behind England, or Great Britain, in that area.
On the subject of the Erasmus programme, which is, after all, a part of the Socrates programme, I should like to say that - given the need not only to set up the programme but also to evaluate it - it is quite important to examine the efficiency of what is being offered and to carry out an assessment of the resources, if new knowledge is to be obtained and, above all, the defects in the programme removed.
It has already been said that new knowledge of this kind will unfortunately not have any impact upon the Socrates II programme.
I think we could have done to update things in this area, since 40% of the Socrates budget is, after all, being allocated to the Erasmus programme and, in that way, to students at European universities.
It was, and remains, the goal to make it possible for 10% of students to spend a part of their degree courses in other Member States.
Unfortunately, a figure of only 1% was achieved in the first year.
The participation rate has risen and is now just under 50% of the figure aimed at.
The report has shown that the reasons for this are both structural and cultural, as well as economic to quite a significant degree.
So far, there has been no success in complying with what is also laid down in the Socrates programme and giving a special boost to groups that are weak in socio-economic terms.
On the contrary, the programme is instead used by students whose parents have both a high level of education and a corresponding level of income.
Fifty-seven percent of Erasmus students had considerable difficulties financing their stay abroad.
I think there needs to be coordination between the Erasmus scholarships and the countries and the universities concerned.
In that way, reform can be implemented and an information campaign launched in order to question, and shed some light upon, why so few people are able to participate in this programme.
Above all, it is a question of preserving equality of opportunity in all countries.
That is why it is worth showing some commitment.
I think that making equal opportunities available to young people is quite important for us all.
