Mr President, in common with all the previous speakers, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Thors on her report.
It is a very sound and important report.
Digital television is one of the most important contributors to convergence, and will become one of the primary means of accessing the data highways.
Digital television will afford increased and wider access, also for the more remote regions.
Therefore, it is important to make operators' lives easier, rather than introducing far too many regulations.
But this balancing act between investment, development and minimal regulation gets particularly difficult when there is a need to safeguard cultural diversity and general information.
This is where we need to look for ideal solutions within the new framework conditions, with all due respect for quality.
Accordingly, Mrs Thors' report meets with our approval.
We echo her demand for separation of content and infrastructure and for the obligation to transmit on particular channels.
We are calling for decoder parts to be made part of the information infrastructure, for the interoperability of decoders to be addressed, and for Member States to be afforded the opportunity to demand open networks.
We also welcome with open arms the fact that the Commission approves of mergers, provided open standards are used.
This will be another useful tool in our efforts to prevent abuse of dominant positions.
Last but not least, I too would like to endorse what previous speakers have said.
There is no internal market for TV services.
We need to tackle this with sensitivity, and fast.
In the light of the developments that have taken place, it is absolutely essential that we enter into a comprehensive debate on public service broadcasting.
Without infringing the subsidiarity principle, we in Europe have a responsibility not to put public service broadcasters at the mercy of the forces of competition, when they have a duty to provide information and to safeguard cultural diversity.
I would urge every one here to be particularly sensitive in this respect.
