Mr President, our committee undoubtedly agrees with Mr Marset Campos' s report.
However, I should like to draw the House' s attention to a number of points which, as far as we are concerned, are right at the top of the international aid priority list.
International aid must, without fail, be well coordinated.
The Commission, for its part, must set up suitable structures on the ground.
However, it must also cooperate as efficiently as possible with the international organisations which have been working there for several years already.
The same applies when it comes to involving the people affected, especially the indigenous population.
We must work with these people on the ground during both planning and implementation, that is essential as far as we are concerned.
Not only does it save costs, it increases efficiency and, more importantly, prevents fraud.
We know that in El Salvador, for example, the erstwhile Calderón government diverted aid of EUR 1 million in order to win votes in the right-wing camp.
If we really want to help the countries devastated by the hurricane, then of course we need to do more than just implement a few aid projects on the ground.
We all know that full well.
It is therefore essential that we remit foreign debts and build up regional and, above all, sustainable structures in both the ecological and the economic sense of the word.
The Union must also guarantee these countries access to the markets for their products, which must be assessed from both an ecological and a social point of view, because there is little point in giving out aid, on the one hand, and excluding these countries from our markets, on the other.
I take the same view as the previous speakers, that it is unacceptable for the Council to argue that money now needs to be diverted from Latin America to Kosovo.
Robbing Peter to pay Paul can hardly be called a policy; on the contrary.
The Council keeps heaping more and more tasks on to the Commission and the European Parliament; it also needs to ensure that they can be funded by entering the relevant amounts in the budget.
