Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some regions in the world are struck by the hand of fate several times in quick succession.
In the 1980s, the European Union made a major commitment to Central America in the San José process, in order to help establish peace and democracy in this region.
This process was a success.
And then, just a few years ago, these countries were again hard hit, this time by a terrible hurricane, and they are still suffering the consequences.
Thank goodness that Europe is again taking action, offering assistance and helping to reconstruct Central America.
We need to publicise the fact that the European Union is funding at least 62% of public development aid in Central America.
This entitles the European Union to play a political role in Central America, which is not just the preserve of its large neighbours; Europe too can make a contribution here to peace, democracy and reconstruction.
We therefore welcome the Commission' s proposal.
The Committee on Budgets supports the idea of earmarking EUR 250 million for this region for the period from 1999 to 2004.
It is also a good idea to make this aid conditional upon a commitment by the countries to work together.
That was the model used in Europe after the Second World War, when the duty to work together, cooperate and overcome borders were the sine qua non for Marshall Plan funds.
Our contribution to reconstruction aid will likewise be conditional upon a commitment to peaceful coexistence and cooperation.
I also expressly agree with the rapporteur: we should not allow the reconstruction of Kosovo to be funded, as it were, from the budget for Central America.
If the reconstruction of Kosovo is a European task decided by the Council, then it must also provide the necessary funds, which is why we are voting today on a sum of money as a direction marker, a direction marker which was decided before the conflict in Kosovo.
The Commission report predates the Kosovo conflict and we have made no changes to it.
We stand by the sum proposed for Central America.
I think that is the most important signal we can send out today.
