Mr President, contrary to popular belief and notwithstanding the debate that has taken place here this morning, this directive is not about defining the concept of family, which is generally binding throughout the European Union.
It has far more to do with establishing in precise terms, which third-country family members should be entitled to join relations who are immigrants to the European Union.
No one would dispute the fact that families have the right to live together.
But what really matters here is where we draw the line as regards family members.
For example, I have a wife and two children, and they have children too.
I also have siblings and aunts and uncles.
If I were to count the number of relatives I live in close contact with, that makes 25 all told.
Commissioner Vitorino, if I were to apply for asylum in Portugal, for example, then clearly I would be unable to assert a claim to live there with 25 relatives.
In other words, we must be sensible and draw the line somewhere.
That is the crucial problem we face with this directive.
We must also distinguish between those whose stay in the European Union subject to a time limit, and those who reside here permanently.
I should point out that this draft directive extends family reunification provisions beyond those that have been in force in the Member States to date.
This sends out another signal to would-be immigrants, which will, of course, have major consequences.
This directive would have very different implications for States with a high proportion of immigrants, such as Austria, Germany and the Benelux States, than it would for States such as Portugal, Finland and others, which do not see very much in the way of immigration.
We cannot endorse this directive as matters stand, because it would lead to a dramatic increase in family reunification, which is one of the main grounds for reunification.
Therefore, Commissioner, with all due respect for your work, I cherish the hope that the Council will decline to give it the unanimous assent it requires.
