Mr President, our Group firmly supports the short resolution tabled by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party, which largely goes back to a proposal on our part, because we want to see threefold solidarity: solidarity with the people of Chechnya, which is still imminently threatened with genocide, because that is what all this is about, together with energy interests.
Just now we heard about the issue of maintaining order.
The history of the twentieth century is littered with strong men who used secret services and other means to create chaos so that they could then present themselves as a force for law and order.
Let there be no mistake, we should not let Mr Putin get away with that.
We must not allow the people of Chechnya to become victims of a genocide motivated principally by raw materials interests.
Secondly, we want to show our solidarity with our colleagues on the other side of the River Ill, with our colleagues in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, who have taken a courageous step and who we should not lag behind in fighting for human rights.
Thirdly, we would like to demonstrate our solidarity with the Russian people, because the war in Chechnya is threatening to become an instrument of nationalism, which will be used to lever out the rule of law and freedom of the press, which are still very weak in Russia, and to turn the clock back in that country.
Anyone who wishes to defend the Russian people must work to ensure that attempts to remove press freedom, as evidenced by the Babitsky case and by many other cases, do not succeed, and that Russia continues on the path towards greater freedom and towards closer links with the European Union.
That is why we must say a resounding 'yes' to steps against these wrongdoings and why we believe that it is important for representatives of this Parliament to visit Chechnya as soon as possible, following the example of the Council of Europe and the UN Commissioner for Human Rights, Mrs Robinson.
This joint delegation needs to set off without delay.
It would be a great step forward if this succeeded.
And, as I have already said, it is vital for us to make it crystal clear that we back human rights for the people of both Chechnya and of Russia.
We wish to help both peoples and both peoples have the right to advance towards freedom and towards taking their proper place in the international community.
