Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, several speakers have referred to the importance of the European security and defence policy.
I should like to confine myself to the question of democratic and parliamentary control of this policy.
Peace and security are not suitable subjects for Council meetings in camera.
They must be subject to parliamentary control.
It is important for decisions on military intervention to remain the responsibility of national parliaments.
It is also important for budgetary questions and national defence budgets to continue to be decided in national parliaments.
But everything over and above that, all questions of civil policy, come under the jurisdiction of the European Parliament.
This European security and defence policy must be subject to parliamentary monitoring in this House.
The President-in-Office has said that transparency and clarity are needed.
It was clever to pretend that the aim is to integrate the Western European Union in the European Union, which is why the debates currently being held within the Western European Union are so absurd, trying as they are to invent a new identity for the parliamentary assembly of the Western European Union.
Every iota of strength is being used at the moment to define new remits, even going so far as a European assembly for security and defence, yet another committee to add to the confusion, rather than to increase transparency.
I am reminded of the policy of the Christmas goose trying to postpone Christmas.
It would be good if more transparency were to reign here and if we were to come to accept that the European Parliament is the right forum.
We attended the NATO assembly a few days ago, where the president of the North Atlantic assembly stated that the Western European Union was merging into the European Union, that the EU had a parliament, that NATO had a parliament and that the WEU assembly therefore had no further raison d' être.
I think that is also our position and account should be taken of it at this Summit.
