Mr President-in-Office, you have made us in the European Parliament eager to leave for Lisbon already.
All of us can only hope that the Special Summit is able to live up to the high expectations which people have of it.
Because, as you have already stressed, we do not need one more process after another, one procedure after another; rather we need action by which the people of the European Union can measure the benefits and added value of what the European Union does.
That is also why you have rightly drawn together employment, economic reform, growth and social cohesion and made them issues for top-level action.
It is important for all players in the governments and in the Commission to be pulling in the same direction towards full employment.
Then it will also be possible to convince all economic policy-makers of the need to conform to agreed behaviour, which so far they unfortunately still have not yet done.
Europe need lament neither over the success of the US economy nor over the strong dollar if it does not learn any lessons for itself from it.
Reforms of financial services, services capital and labour markets are certainly useful and necessary.
But they alone will not give growth the stimulus it needs to enable long-lasting growth, effectively generating jobs, to be organised at a high level.
We were forced to experience this several times in the nineties.
An average productivity increase of 2% requires a growth rate of 3.5% for full employment to be able to be achieved within ten years.
This scenario has moved into the foreseeable future.
That is why full employment actually needs to be right at the top of the agenda.
We need to set a growth target of at least 3%.
The aim of full employment cannot be achieved by economic policy alone.
The Europe of innovation and the information society also need to be commandeered to reach this target.
We are a long way from it today.
We must also recognise that we need another type of economic and financial policy.
It is simply unacceptable for shareholders or directors of plcs to be the only ones who decide on jobs, the economy and share prices.
When 13-year-old school children play on the computer after school at restructuring their parents' share portfolios, then this has more to do with toy casinos than with responsibility.
I think that the Special Summit in Lisbon will herald responsible economic planning in the European Union.
