Madam President, in my opinion perversion is undoubtedly on the increase if, in addition to a child being sexually exploited, the event is recorded, in whatever fashion, and then reused for financial gain.
These events are occurring every day, every hour and perhaps every minute.
The perpetrators are using the most up-to-date technology to distribute their material and in the Internet they have found a medium which is more suited than any other to acting anonymously.
Paedophiles are limited only by their own technical capability or the equipment which they can afford.
When seen against its virtually unlimited potential, society and the state have thus far had very little at their disposal to counter illegal activity on the Internet, in particular since cyberspace has no states or geographical and political borders and its alluring feature is its worldwide accessibility.
The Internet itself cannot commit crimes.
What is criminal is the behaviour of some 3 to 5% of Internet users who misuse the Net for illegal purposes.
95 to 97% of the Internet is legal.
The Internet is therefore a reflection of society as a whole.
Just as in the real world, crime is very much a part of the virtual world.
All the same, the Internet is not beyond the law.
The problem of crime on the Internet cannot be resolved by any state in isolation.
For this we need uniform worldwide crimes and definitions so that law enforcement authorities can work together in global terms and not in opposition.
In the area of child pornography in particular, where the rights of children are continually being trampled underfoot, there is an urgent need for global regulation.
The EU has already taken several measures towards this, which I will not go into any further here.
I would like to congratulate Mr Kirkhope on his report.
It is a high-quality text.
Nevertheless, to effectively combat child pornography, it is necessary, in my opinion, for Europol to be immediately informed of cases of child pornography and for the exchange of information with the competent authorities to be carried out quickly and directly, as stated in Amendment No 20 from Gerhard Schmid.
All the proposed measures are suitable and necessary to effectively combat child pornography.
However, we must not forget that, in addition to the technological and police measures, we must also combat poverty, ignorance and prejudice in order to improve society' s image of children and children' s image of themselves and to offer help to the victims; thus far, victim support has played too insignificant a role.
We need a social climate in which the victims of vile crimes are not left to fend for themselves whilst the perpetrators are shielded through failure to act and fear of embarrassing revelations.
