Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, groups of experts have informed us that 25-30% of crime in Europe can now be attributed to cross-border, international crime.
That is a dramatic development.
On the other hand, our police forces and criminal prosecution authorities are organised at national level.
And so we know that if criminals can go about their business without being subject to border controls or paying heed to laws, and have almost unlimited financial, technical and human resources, then the police and judiciary are simply lagging far behind them and we still have a long way to go before we achieve a common area of freedom, security and justice.
We must pull out all the stops so as to improve the way in which cross-border police work is organised and make criminal prosecution more efficient than it has been hitherto.
We may have come a long way in terms of police work in that we have Europol, analysis and coordination activities, and joint investigative groups, but the judiciary is lagging 20 years behind police cooperation according to the experts.
That being the case, the act that has been put forward here, which affords judicial cooperation - also in matters of criminal law - represents progress, a step in the right direction.
Whilst it may warrant some criticism, we can undoubtedly note to our satisfaction how crucial it is that requests for mutual assistance in matters of criminal law no longer go through prescribed ministerial channels, rather they are exchanged directly, that people held in custody can be handed over, and that joint investigative groups can be set up.
That is a whole host of measures that will help us to proceed efficiently and on a joint basis in matters of criminal law.
Ana Palacio has already made critical comments in connection with telecommunications interception and hearings by video conference.
All in all though, this report is a positive step towards the common area of justice we are seeking to achieve.
.
(Applause)
