Mr President, Commissioner, in principle I approve the new protocols to the fisheries agreements with Mauritius and Guinea.
The Commission and the rapporteur have done some good work.
However, the effects of fisheries agreements upon the EU budget are not something to be sneezed at.
If we are to draw the correct conclusions, no more time must now be lost in involving Parliament, because trouble is brewing.
Allow me to explain what I mean.
We are concerned here with mixed agreements.
It is not just a question of how many fish are to be obtained for how much money, but also about employing the precautionary principle to achieve the sustainable use of fisheries resources.
We want to help Mauritius and Guinea develop fisheries management, as well as offer financial support in the fields of education and research.
In Mauritius, for example, just under 50% of the total volume of available finance is to be used for these measures.
I myself consider it a good thing for us also to be promoting development measures in connection with fisheries.
Fisheries is the ideal field for such a combination.
Yet, in the Committee on Fisheries, we are repeatedly confronted by the issue of whether the price paid by the European Union to third countries for its fishing rights is not too high.
There is a danger of the European Union' s one day being ridiculed and taken advantage of internationally because of its generosity.
Moreover, to what extent are third countries now really all dependent upon EU funds?
Bilateral agreements are increasingly coming into force because ship owners or others offer more money than the EU.
If the latter were to become a day-to-day occurrence regulated by the market itself, might not consideration have to be given to the question of whether the EU ought not progressively to withdraw from the current agreements and perhaps spend its subsidies in other ways?
Obviously, that would have to be compatible with the common European fisheries policy.
I welcome the agreements that are before the House.
Only, we ought not to be blind and, above all, not issue any blank cheques.
