Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, most members here in this House - with the exception of the member who has just spoken - are concerned about developments in friendly, neighbouring Tunisia.
Tunisia is our neighbour, because the Mediterranean does not divide, it unites us.
These concerns, as expressed here today, are not born of a colonial or neo-colonial attitude.
We are not talking about unacceptable interference in the internal affairs of a third country.
No, we are talking, as Commissioner Patten has stressed again and again, about critical dialogue based on the agreements which we have signed with Tunisia.
It would therefore make no sense to cancel these agreements.
On the contrary, we must use them to shape this critical dialogue.
We are talking about creating a common area of security, stability and peace, and that includes democracy, that includes respect for human rights, that includes freedom of the press.
When Tunisia keeps insisting that we are also talking about fighting extremism and terrorism and preventing extremist views, attitudes and organisations, then I agree with it wholeheartedly.
But how else is this fight best fought, if not through democracy?
This is also being demonstrated by Tunisia' s neighbours.
Which is why we cannot do without it.
Tunisia keeps saying that it is a question of economic and social development.
But this totally positive economic and social development in Tunisia is precisely the best basis for developing democracy still further and fighting the fight against extremism on democratic soil.
One last comment: we want to help Tunisia, about that there can be no doubt.
We must help Tunisia, just as we must help the whole area, the whole region.
The Balkans are not our only priority.
The enlargement of the European Union is not our only priority.
The Mediterranean is not in the third division, it has equal status and importance.
When Commissioner Patten states, for example, that we are talking about reforms, about closing the gap between commitments and payments, then that deserves our full support.
But we must do that all together and sensitively.
We must do it in a way which does not repulse our Mediterranean partners but which invites them back into the fold.
