Mr President, I should like to subscribe to the President-in-Office' s evaluation and to say that I feel this debate was helpful and supports the line which the Commission has followed.
It does not matter that Parliament has taken a more critical stance than I am able to do at present, for reasons which you will understand.
I have drawn the Turkish Government' s, the Turkish parties' and the Turkish parliament' s attention to the role of the European Parliament in ensuring that no political compromises are made with candidates during access negotiations and in Turkey' s preparations for access negotiations which contradict the Copenhagen criteria.
I should like to expressly stress here that there can be no discounts for anyone, including Turkey, when it comes to accession conditions.
I should also like to repeat here what I have said on previous occasions: we must be conscious of the fact that the process which we have now set in motion will not be without its setbacks.
I do not know what is easy and what is difficult to do in Turkey.
But I do know one thing and that is that a debate is currently taking place in Turkey of which we only hear a part, a debate which will decide on the fate of the country and, partly on the fate of Europe too.
It is in our interests that the reform-orientated, democratic, pro-Europe forces carry the motion in this debate.
I should like to close by saying that we are still just right at the beginning.
We are in fact at the beginning of the beginning.
We are only just preparing the pre-accession strategy.
We have no pre-accession strategy yet which is why I think it is slightly premature to start talking about disappointments or about the need for a new strategy.
By definition, strategies only deserve to be called such when they can go the whole course.
I therefore advise on a little patience here.
We shall see things more clearly, we shall know what specific progress we can expect in the autumn, once all the elements of the pre-accession strategy have been defined and once we have received Turkey' s reply.
This reply must be given this year and must refer clearly and unequivocally to what we expect of Turkey and must tell us exactly what Turkey intends to do.
That will be the time to say more than was possible today in this cautious evaluation.
