President, we are very disappointed with the outcome of the vote.
I think it is quite disgraceful that the European Parliament bowed to lobbying pressure from the genetic engineering industry on key issues.
There has been a massive campaign in recent weeks, but I would have liked Parliament to display the sense of responsibility it gave expression to at first reading.
My first point relates to liability.
It is quite ludicrous just to call upon the Commission in a recital to put forward an environmental liability directive by the year 2001.
We are well aware that the White Paper made no provision for personal liability insurance and that it only related to the Natura 2000 areas.
If industry maintains that products of genetic engineering are safe and do not present risks, then I cannot understand why the majority of delegates have caved in and allowed industry to continue to evade responsibility.
My second point relates to antibiotics.
A lame demand of this kind takes no account whatsoever of consumer interests.
All scientists warn that pathogens in human beings and animals are becoming increasingly resistant, and are calling for an immediate ban on the use of antibiotic-resistant marker genes.
Parliament has shelved the issue again, and has failed yet again to deal with these major problems.
This is most disgraceful!
The same goes for the issue of genetic pollution.
Simply to ask that the problem be taken account of really is a complete joke, for that is precisely what environmental risk assessment caters for.
Parliament originally called for the Member States and the Commission to be placed under an obligation to adopt measures.
Parliament has caved in on this too.
I think today has been a black day for consumer protection, and I can only hope that this vote will do industry a disservice.
With any luck, consumers will continue to give genetically modified food the thumbs down, for it is unacceptable that industry should be allowed to get away with evading responsibility.
