Mr President, I would like to express my personal admiration for rapporteurs Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen.
I would like them to know that my scepticism, and any decision on my part to reject this report, is no reflection on them, but on this House, which does not have the backbone to confront the European Council with its own vision of what the future should hold for European integration.
In terms of power politics, or following a constitutional line of thought, it is quite clear what the Council wants.
It wants Europe to be run by the executive, to be under the leadership of national governments, a bring-and-buy for national interests.
It wants the basic model for European integration to be intergovernmental cooperation.
The European Council wants Europe to be under the leadership of a handful of States, it wants Europe to be run by a board of directors, and to pursue a nineteenth century style policy aimed at striking a balance amongst the States of Central Europe.
The Council does not see a democratic deficit; it sees a lack of efficiency at worst.
Separation of powers, public scrutiny of legislation, parliamentarianism, unrestricted legal supervision on the part of the European Court of Justice, binding fundamental rights, strengthening of the original European institutions - the Commission, Parliament and the European Court of Justice - none of these matters are of concern to the Council.
It is the task of Parliament to stand up to the Council and to present it with its own vision.
Parliament must pluck up the courage to vie with the Council when it comes to determining the future of European integration.
This is about nothing less than the rediscovery of democracy in the supranational sphere.
It is about nothing less - and this is, or would be Parliament' s task - than making European unification public property.
We have a long way to go before we achieve this.
If you demand a constitutional process but satisfy yourself with the division of the Treaties into two parts, then this constitutional process is already at an end!
If you accept without criticism that not only does the Council see itself as a legitimate representative of the States, it also claims to represent the people by virtue of the double majority, thereby depriving Parliament of its legitimacy, then we still have a long way to go before......
(The President cut the speaker off)
