Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to congratulate Mr Lagendijk on his excellent report.
I think it is both pleasing and highly productive to have achieved a consensus spanning several groups on how the problems facing South-Eastern Europe should be tackled - one could revert to saying "the Balkans" again in the light of the fact that, interestingly, a representative of Croatia at the meeting under the chairmanship of Mrs Pack, said they would dare to go as far as to say again that Croatia is part of the Balkans.
We must take an overall view of the Balkans or South-Eastern Europe - whichever term we prefer - because there are pronounced similarities between the countries.
However, that must not prevent us from responding differently to individual countries, all depending on how willing they are to take part in this overall process.
We had a discussion on Macedonia recently - I had the opportunity to draft a report on this, and would again like to thank those of you who supported me - in fact we were debating a stabilisation and association agreement.
Croatia is currently the main object of our attention.
Croatia has experienced a political watershed.
I do not want to pass belated judgement on what has been, but only express my hopes for what is to come.
That is why we must support Croatia every step of the way as it strikes out in this new direction, which does not involve excluding the opposition but endeavouring to enlist their support.
But there is a new government and attitudes towards the refugee situation, economic development and, in particular, Europe, have changed.
I would particularly like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council to work together with the other fourteen countries to ensure that the European Investment Bank is at last in a position to extend credits to Croatia.
It is grotesque that Croatia, I am sorry to say, still does not have the option of receiving credits from the European Investment Bank.
Of course the other countries must also be given due regard and support.
That much is clear.
There can be no discussion whatsoever on that point, but for the moment I believe Croatia is to the fore.
If we have a few cornerstones of regional development, such as Macedonia, Croatia, and hopefully also Albania soon, then it will be possible to create a network of stability in South-Eastern Europe.
There is a final point I would particularly like to address: the donor conference, which was highly successful - I am grateful to the President-in-Office of the Council, but I would particularly like to thank the Commissioner, both of whom helped to make the donor conference a success - concentrated above all on material infrastructure, and indeed that is what we need in South-Eastern Europe.
However, we also need the appropriate mental infrastructure.
We need a change of attitude on the part of the people in this region.
That is why I am particularly keen to urge you, despite all the rumours we have heard, to see to it that due attention is given to furthering all matters to do with learning and education, and with the "Graz process" , i.e. to do with changing people' s attitudes and behaviour, solidarity and tolerance.
It may cost relatively little, but it is still important to enable the people there to see that above and beyond the material aspects of their lives - bridges, roads, railways etc. they also share a common future, reached through mutual understanding and support.
