Mr President, Commissioner, it has already been mentioned on several occasions that the proposal for a joint initiative by all the EU Member States goes back to the initiative of the Austrian Federal Chancellor, Dr Wolfgang Schüssel, who, as Foreign Minister in 1998, presented it to Europe within the framework of the Austrian Council Presidency, as well as to the United Nations in New York, in order to bring about a resumption of the draft joint action to combat pornography on the Internet.
The motivation for this initiative was clearly that all those who wish to make policy for the future must, on the one hand, have the courage to carry out necessary reforms and, on the other, must positively and effectively avail themselves of the opportunities afforded by technological and global development and human resources, all the while taking responsibility for pointing out risks and undesirable developments and for drawing the necessary boundaries.
Anyone who does not take action against children and minors being abused and lead astray is jeopardising the future.
The aim of the Austrian initiative was, as previous speakers have pointed out, to draw attention to the fact that the Internet, given its special nature, offers new and, in the light of its scope, not always positive, opportunities, indeed incredible opportunities for the distribution of child pornography.
Pornographic material can be distributed via the Internet in unlimited amounts and by the most direct route.
There is the danger that children themselves may surf the Internet and come across pornographic images of their peers, thereby sustaining psychological damage.
Combating child pornography and the misuse of the Internet is, therefore, both a worldwide and a specifically European responsibility and we call upon all Member States to take action in light of this report.
We welcome the debate on the age limit.
However, I share the view of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport that we should have fixed the age limit at 18 and I hope that the initiatives will lead to the highest possible age limit being set in all Member States.
We welcome the fact that there will be a uniform definition and I support all measures to also place providers under obligation since today' s discussion can only be the start of a debate and of initiatives and is far from the end.
Actions must follow.
