Mr President, yes, Mrs Palacio, you are absolutely right - what we need is dialogue.
Yes, we must increase the financial support, and yes, we oppose cartels and monopolies.
That is all quite true.
But reducing taxation and other things - which, funnily enough, is what certain Members to my left have suggested - is no way to solve the problem.
That would lead nowhere.
OPEC and the oil producing countries will immediately move in to close this gap.
They have a political and economic hold over us.
What chance do we stand against this?
(Heckling from Mr Jarzembowski) Have we reduced our consumption?
No.
Mr Jarzembowski, who has just spoken - he can shout loudly, and so can I as it happens - says that there must be a paradigm shift where traffic is concerned.
There is more road transport than there was ten years ago.
It is high time this was changed.
We need a paradigm shift where transport is concerned.
There needs to be more transport via rail and water - let us make it happen.
We need to be less dependent.
Let us pursue a common energy policy, for example.
You, Mrs Palacio, and we MEPs, should call for a common energy policy to be incorporated into the Treaty.
We are still lacking such a policy.
So who is guilty of blocking it to date?
For example, what we need to do, Mrs Palacio, is to get rid of the link between gas and oil prices.
You could do that in tandem with the Commission.
Why are gas prices linked to oil prices?
There is no reason why they should be.
You are the obvious person to bring this about.
We can do all of these things.
There are many things we can do, which the Member States have failed to do so far.
We can use these opportunities.
Unfortunately, I am speaking too fast for the interpreter, and I apologise for this.
Right now, there must be no falling out between groups on the right, and those on the left or in the centre, above or below.
The OPEC States will watch from the sidelines, smile indulgently, and put the prices up.
(Heckling from Mr Jarzembowski)
We must show a united front, and the same goes for the Ministers meeting in the Transport Council - and you, Mr Jarzembowski, would do well to shout less loudly and at last get round to doing something in your transport committee.
