Mr President, Prime Minister, President of the Commission, the Portuguese Presidency has presented an ambitious programme for the Special Summit.
Congratulations!
I also welcome the support which Portugal is receiving from the Commission, not least through the communication which seeks to develop the Community into an information society for everyone.
The comment made by the Christian Democrat Prime Minister, Jean Claude Juncker, at the employment summit in Luxembourg in 1997 also applies to the Lisbon Summit.
He said that it must not be a literary convention, referring to the numerous non-binding declarations made at many summits.
In adopting the Luxembourg Process the Heads of State and Government achieved tangible successes.
Since 1997, however, the really significant results have failed to materialise.
So far, the Cologne Employment Pact has not been able to be invested with sufficient content.
In addition, the macroeconomic dialogue lacks the participation of the European Parliament as an equal partner.
Yes, some aspects of the Luxembourg employment policy guidelines have not been applied rigorously enough by the Member States, in particular, for example, in the field of lifelong learning, as the 1999 Joint Employment Report noted.
In information technology, in particular, some European countries lack qualified workers, as Mr Suominen emphasised.
Rather than 'importing' them from third countries, it is better to invest accordingly in vocational training and further education, to invest in human capital.
This is the most effective way of reducing unemployment.
The most important objective of the Summit must be achieved as quickly as possible, and that is to improve the competitiveness of the European economy.
In this context the Ciampi Group also mentions the European company statute.
It puts the loss to the economy of not having a statute of this kind at EUR 30 billion a year.
We do not want the basic unrefined European company model.
We need this European company to come supplied with minimum standards of worker participation.
Our social policy goal is not of course the basic unrefined model of the market economy either, but a social market economy built on the European model.
We should also judge the success of the Lisbon Summit on the contribution it makes to achieving this goal.
