Madam President, to begin with, I would like to make one thing abundantly clear: Austria is not in danger of experiencing a resurgence of a one-party system or of a totalitarian system of right-wing persuasion.
Austria is a stable democracy; one in which human rights and fundamental freedoms are guaranteed under the constitution and are afforded the protection of an independent judiciary.
Austria is a cosmopolitan country and xenophobia and discrimination have no place there.
There is nothing unusual about what is happening in Austria: there has been a changeover of power following democratic elections, in consequence of which an old system was voted out and a stable parliamentary majority prepared to carry out the necessary economic and social reforms was sought and found.
There will be a functioning majority and likewise a functioning opposition.
The Austrian People' s Party, which I represent here in this Parliament, used to be and still is a party that has consistently spoken up for the integration of my country into the EU and feels deeply attached to the community of values that is the European Union, and likewise its basic political principles of deepening and enlargement.
We respect and accept the discussion that is taking place and also appreciate the concerns that are being voiced in many of our Member States as to the way ahead for Austria.
Our understanding springs from the knowledge that our history of the recent past has bequeathed to us a political responsibility of special importance in the present.
Our country was not just the first victim of the Hitler dictatorship, many people were perpetrators too, although I refute any suggestion of collective guilt.
The ÖVP played no small part in helping Austria find its way into the European Union.
My country' s place is not outside the European Union but in it ...
..., with all the rights and commitments that this entails!
Any future government must therefore be judged according to the values and principles it professes to in its manifesto, and not according to the prejudgements put about both by political adversaries and the international media.
A declared belief in human rights, democracy and the rule of law, in an honest reappraisal of Austria' s role in the past, in passing on information on the gravest crime against humanity in the 20th century, the holocaust, will also be reflected in the fundamental accord underlying a future coalition government between the ÖVP and FPÖ.
My party can be relied upon to see to it that my country holds firm to the course of European politics and continues to be rooted in the European community of values!
(Applause)
