Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in one month' s time, on the 9 May 2000, Parliament will be celebrating the 50th Anniversary of Robert Schumann' s declaration.
In view of this historic event, we should focus our gaze on the fifty years that lie ahead for the European Community.
When the next major anniversary is celebrated though, we will no longer be there to continue building our joint European edifice.
This is something our descendants are going to have to do.
Now is the time to take steps to smooth the way for them.
The new "Youth" action programme is the way to further European integration.
Young people are Europe' s future.
We should do everything we can to make sure that the young people of today feel completely at home in the European Community, better still that they develop close ties with it.
Therefore it was, and still is, absolutely essential to create a programme that offers all young people - as Mrs Gröner has already said - irrespective of their origins, educational background, knowledge of languages, study or training, the opportunity to make contact with Europe.
This is a major innovation on the part of the Youth Programme i.e. that it is open to all young people, unlike the existing programmes, each of which covers a specific area.
The new programme closes the gap, as it were, between the youth and educational programmes that are already running.
Parliament, as well as the Commission and the Council, saw that there was a need for this programme, even if, as the rapporteur has just said, considerable hurdles had to be overcome in relation to the financial framework.
We have the personal commitment of all the participating parliamentarians to thank for the fact that a compromise of EUR 520 million could be reached.
I would like once again to take the opportunity to thank all those who haggled over every euro in the course of the conciliation procedure.
As Mrs Gröner said, even if the financial framework fell a long way short of our aspirations, still a large number of amendments were adopted.
The new programme is more comprehensible and more citizen-friendly.
The level of social protection for the participants has been improved.
The programme has been heavily decentralised so as to enable young people in our home regions to take part in actions
Our Group endorses the programme, so as to spare young people having to wait any longer for their programme.
