Mr President, a competition-orientated research policy of the kind that we are pursuing today is the best type of social and employment policy of tomorrow.
That being the case, Mr Busquin is assuming one of the major responsibilities within the European Community.
As far as we are concerned, it is all about encouraging researchers to engage in one-to-one conversations.
Scientific studies have demonstrated that one-to-one conversations between researchers are the best way of making progress.
What we need to do is to bring researchers from all over the world to Europe, and particularly those from countries wishing to join the EU.
Researchers there are producing outstanding results that have yet to be acknowledged and marketed, and which can be intensively developed.
This leads us onto the subject of youth.
I believe we should make sure that we impart this entrepreneurial spirit, the pleasure derived from innovation and research, to young people.
It is good to see young people getting involved in research projects.
Perhaps it would also be a good idea to set up a LEONARDO for researchers, an exchange programme between universities, schools, companies and research institutes.
I believe that each individual has a great deal of knowledge to contribute, and that, ultimately, communication between specialists is the best method of conveying this knowledge.
It is also important for the small and family-run enterprises, but also the suppliers, to have access to the major research institutions, to the top research centres.
We in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy have proposed to the Committee on Budgets that an additional allocation be made.
We have said that at least 10% of research expenditure must be for the benefit of small- and medium-sized enterprises.
I would say that a larger slice, 20% or 30%, should be closely tied in with cooperation between small companies, suppliers, and major research institutes, so as to bring about a dramatic improvement in the networks and in communication in this sector, and create brand new opportunities.
An active and passive licensing and patenting policy - I wrote my dissertation on this at university - is the basis of successful research.
As we have already heard today, it is vital for the European Union to give attention to this matter.
What obstacles are there?
I believe we should distinguish between large and small assistance projects, particularly when it comes to expenditure.
It is particularly important to keep administrative expenditure to a minimum in the case of small companies and small-scale projects.
The Commission ought to concentrate on large projects, albeit with the proviso that the major projects undertaken are divided into small units; a proportion should be stipulated here as well.
On a final note, Commissioner, I would just like to say that I am already looking forward to, when the next benchmarking projects....
(The President cut the speaker off)
