Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, I would like to stress that when Parliament calls, naturally I will make myself available, and I believe I have demonstrated this to your satisfaction in the past.
As far as the contamination of the west coast of France is concerned, which came about following the sinking of the Erika, we know what extensive and terrible damage this disaster has caused, and that this was further exacerbated by the fact that the disaster coincided with a major storm off the west coast of France.
The combined effect of the oil spillage and the storm caused massive contamination, with the oyster banks and mussel culture being hardest hit and completely obliterated in parts.
In addition, the fisheries sector has suffered various kinds of damage, particularly to nets.
Consequently, fishing activities had to be suspended in some zones on account of this oil pestilence.
We are working in very close cooperation with the French authorities on this and the competent Commissioner is already in the process of examining the whole package of measures for improving safety at sea and, if necessary, will present proposals to the Commission accordingly, so as to preclude any such incidents from happening in future.
The Community must show solidarity with the victims and we must use every available opportunity - I am completely with Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna on this - to provide assistance.
The primary instrument available to the fisheries and aquaculture sectors for such eventualities - and I can only speak for these sectors here - is the financial instrument for the alignment of fisheries.
The funds can be employed under the terms of the French fisheries-structural programme for 2000-2006, and the French authorities have informed us that they intend to send their programme to Brussels next week.
EUR 225 million will be available to France for structural measures up until the year 2006.
Working within this range of options, how can we help the fishermen on the one hand, and the mussel and oyster farmers on the other?
It is possible that fishermen and ship-owners will receive compensation for the damages incurred on account of the temporary suspension of their activities, with up to 50% being financed by the state.
The Community is prepared to co-finance 50% of this.
France has the exclusive right to determine the level of compensation, and a total of EUR 9 million are available to this end.
So how can we help the oyster and mussel farmers?
The funds could be used for cleaning the oyster vats.
New equipment could be procured for the oyster vats, or damaged aquaculture equipment could be repaired.
The effluent from aquaculture installations could be treated and, in addition, regulations for improving and monitoring the quality of follow-up and hygiene could be financed.
Another idea worth considering, among others, would be a general sales promotion campaign.
If France submits its claims to us before the end of this month, then it will be possible to backdate the compensation to 1.1.2000.
At all events, we are prepared, for the Commission' s part, to examine the claim as soon as we receive it, and we will also approve it quickly, so as to be able to get the aid for the victims off the ground with immediate effect.
