Mr President, I am in favour of tightening up the legislation on port state control and on classification societies.
However, we must stick to the facts.
The ship Erika has been investigated four times in the course of the last two years.
The answer cannot lie in the number of investigations but rather in guaranteeing the rigour with which the controls are undertaken.
I have heard in the course of the discussions that have taken place in the last few weeks that the Member States do not have enough money to undertake the controls.
I cannot accept this.
If the Member States decide, in agreement with ourselves, that 25% of ships are to be monitored on the basis of port state control, then they must also make the necessary personnel available.
The controls must also be carried out in such a way that the inspector does not just go on board and check whether there are any fire extinguishers missing, rather there must be materials testing, for this ship obviously broke up on account of material fatigue.
This can only be detected if controls undertaken are more rigorous.
It should be our goal to ensure that port state controls are not superficial, but include materials testing.
Secondly, I also share the Commissioner' s observations and would like to encourage her to continue down this path.
If it should become apparent that one or more classification companies have provided reports by way of favours then they should be struck off the list of authorised classification companies.
That is the only deterrent we have for preventing other classification companies from following suit.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt, we already have a TÜV (organisation for safety testing) for ships in the form of the classification companies.
There are reputable companies too.
You will be familiar with some reputable companies, our French fellow MEPs will be familiar with some reputable companies, but we must look carefully at exactly which companies do not fulfil requirements, and these must be struck off the list.
Finally, we should make it quite plain to Malta that if it wants to become a Member of this Community then by the time it accedes it must apply a standard in respect of registration and flag state control which completely fulfils our requirements, for the environment is a communal entity and not something that we can divide up!
