Mr President, we find ourselves gazing with bewilderment at each new act by the Milosevic regime, acts against its own people.
Today, no one is safe from attack, whether he belongs to the majority or the minority in Yugoslavia.
That is why I think it is important to maintain constant contact with the opposition and to attempt to bring about a change in the political scene.
I also believe that it is absolutely right that the Commission also wishes to make a relatively large amount of money available if these changes should come about; many people regard such a large amount as being quite appropriate in view of the requirements.
I hope that the Commission and Parliament will remain resolute in facing up to the Council, which is taking a rather softer line here.
I also believe that funding for increased information provision should be implemented here and now, so as to provide more objective information about the actual conditions in the Balkans.
The situation in Kosovo today is different.
Whereas before it was the majority that was in great danger, now it is the minorities who are living in difficult circumstances.
This is just as unacceptable as the previous situation was.
We are unanimous in advocating the rights of all the people living both in this region and in other regions, so that they can live their lives freely and move about at will.
Against this background, I am sceptical to say the least about the elections and their results.
At the very least we should see these for what they are - an election decided by the Albanians, that is by that predominant part of the population which can move freely within this region.
This does not apply to Serbs living in Kosovo, nor indeed to those Serbs who have fled Kosovo and are now living in Yugoslavia.
However, the really critical issue - and I urge the Commission and the Council to really knuckle down to things here - is that more police and greater rule of law are needed.
We are responsible for the rule of law applying to everyone in Kosovo on a uniform basis.
