Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has been observing the events in Fiji since 18 May with growing concern.
It really is discouraging to see the achievements of an entire decade put at risk.
Fiji had a constitution that was not based on racism.
That has been abolished.
It had a democratically elected government.
That has fallen and been replaced by an interim government appointed by the military.
Fiji has already suffered enormous economic damage at this point.
There is a risk that investors will lose confidence in it.
Politically, Fiji, which proudly wanted to give its name to the new 20-year partnership agreement between the ACP states and the EU, risks seeing its relations with the international community of states worsen considerably.
It even risks being expelled from the Commonwealth.
The Commission is currently preparing a proposal to the Council on the application of Article 366a of the Lomé Convention because, in its the view, the fundamental principles of the Convention - democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights - are no longer guaranteed in Fiji.
Let me remind you that this proposal initially provides for consultations between the parties.
Further measures or sanctions will only be decided in a second stage, on the basis of the results of the consultations and how they are assessed.
So it is too early, at this point in time, to contemplate further measures or sanctions.
Any response on our part should be well-considered and targeted.
A trade ban, as called for by unions in Australia and New Zealand, would result in the dismissal of more than 40 000 workers in the clothing and tourist industry, and that should be avoided.
Turning to the Solomon Islands, here too the Commission has been observing the deteriorating security situation with concern.
The Commission supports all the efforts made by the mediators to ensure that the parties concerned can discuss the outstanding issues and differences of opinion openly and without the threat of violence.
The Commission is ready to use its instruments to support the peace process as soon as the political and security situation allows it.
