Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my Group chairman has tipped me the wink and I am able to say on behalf of our group, the PPE-DE, that we fully support and welcome the Commission' s explanations in reply to the oral question, as regards both what was said and the timetable and legal evaluation.
Secondly: I am also delighted that we are again stepping up the political debate on the party statute, the pressure of time in the run up to the final stage of the intergovernmental conference notwithstanding.
This is not just a question of money.
This is also a question of political self-awareness, a question of political identity, a question of the role of national and European parties in the unification process.
We want a stronger European Parliament and that means reducing unanimity and increasing the co-decision powers of the European Parliament.
But a stronger European Parliament depends on strong groups in Parliament which have the authority to act.
We want a strong Commission which drives the European integration process forward.
One of the ways in which this is expressed is by lobbying for the President' s function to be strengthened and through parliament' s proposals to the intergovernmental conference.
We want a statute for European political parties because our democracy is a civil and party-political parliamentary democracy.
But we must not underestimate the psychological importance of this debate.
At present people and national parties are elected.
We want, as we have stated in the proposal to the intergovernmental conference, members on European lists to be elected because we want to raise the European political profile of members further still.
The proposal was touched on at the intergovernmental conference.
I readily admit that we want European lists and European members of parliament.
The proposals have been made; it all depends on the European party statute.
The report by the Court of Auditors containing demands on the groups was also touched on.
We shall comply with these demands.
My group started taking steps in this direction even before the Court of Auditors' report in order to clarify this transparency and this division.
But it cannot work against the European parties because that would represent a reduction in our European self-awareness.
That is also why the party statute is one of the conditions which needs to be put in place so that we can in fact quickly do what is demanded of us and what we demand of ourselves.
