Mr President, we have the awful situation where one EU Member State permits therapeutic cloning, which we have always been critical of.
The people of the European Union are expecting the European Parliament to take a stance on this.
I think it would be irresponsible if we were draw a veil over the issue by saying: 'just to pacify you, we will set up an interminable debating society, or a temporary committee.'
We must take a stance on this decision, which is to be taken in the course of the next few weeks - yes as soon as that- without further ado, and then of course we must state our position on the issues we can expect to deal with in the future.
But on no account must we gloss over this by failing to make our feelings known and by trying to conceal things in committees, which will disconcert the public.
I believe that what is happening now is of crucial importance.
If we accept therapeutic cloning, then we will be opening Pandora' s box.
It would bring the nightmare scenario of cloned and made-to-measure human beings that much closer.
The arbitrary distinction between reproductive and non-reproductive cloning is semantic sleight of hand.
The term 'therapeutic cloning' is equally problematic, because there is no question of it being a therapy.
Cloning, including therapeutic cloning, is the first step along the way to human beings being regarded merely as biological material.
It is indefensible to deliberately - I repeat, deliberately - create life in order to use it as research material.
This conflicts with human rights.
We are also dividing up the concept of human dignity when we deliberately produce embryos in order to have a ready supply of spare parts.
That is why Parliament must use its power to act.
Commissioner for Research, I am also expecting you to make an unequivocal statement today, on how you propose to proceed when a Member State disregards the resolutions of Parliament and the Council.
We need a clear signal, and I feel it would be a sad day for politics if we were to cast aside all our ethical misgivings out of loyalty to Blair.
