Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, during a previous debate on economic policy, Jacques Delors said in this House that these days, 70% of the economic framework conditions that are enacted in the form of laws are European directives.
I would not wish to commit myself to a percentage in this respect, but we should all be aware that some of the economic framework conditions are established by the European Union and others are established by the Member States.
This state of affairs will only prove successful in the long term if it is accomplished on the basis of common principles.
The principle enshrined in the Treaty is that of the market economy - the majority in this House would say the social market economy - and there are two key aspects to this.
Firstly, there is competition.
The European Union is very good at creating conditions for competition.
I welcome with open arms the initiatives produced by the Commission aimed at gradually decentralising competition policy and this desire to foster competition and to allow the individual Member States and the regions to play their part in the process.
This is a very important development.
The second important cornerstone of the social market economy is the stability of the currency.
Firstly, we have the European Central Bank, a strong European institution.
Secondly, we have the social partners, who are responsible for currency stability, and thirdly, there are the national governments and parliaments, which draft their budgets.
I feel I should point out that not only is currency stability one of the cornerstones of economic policy, it is also one of the cornerstones of any social policy, because currency stability is the starting point for social policy, and inflation does not affect those with huge assets at their disposal, but those who have to manage on a small income.
That is why currency stability is such an important cornerstone of our policy.
And one of the crucial cornerstones we have created is the Stability and Growth Pact.
I am delighted that this report is now calling for the Stability and Growth Pact to be rigorously applied, for what we want for the European Union is growth based on currency stability.
