Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a sound report, that much I can say.
I too would first like to thank Mr Graça Moura, but I would also like to highlight the excellent cooperation there has been between the Council, the Commission and Parliament on this issue, all in an effort to be able to take a speedy vote on this report.
This illustrates that everyone has recognised that there is an urgent need to develop EU citizens' knowledge of languages, and also to encourage them to learn new languages.
Languages reflect the diversity of the European Union.
Being able to speak to each other enables us to understand one another, and also makes it easier to build social structures.
However, for all its diversity, our culture in Europe derives from common, historical origins, which is why our languages are based on the classical languages of Latin and Greek.
Mastering these languages generally helps one to learn the others.
I come from the region of Trier - it borders Luxembourg and Belgium and France is not far away either - and it is in fact essential for us to speak the language spoken by our neighbours.
Many people work in Luxembourg, or do business with Belgium and France.
Knowledge of languages should not just be viewed as an aspect of interpersonal relations, for it has quite considerable economic potential, particularly in the context of the internal market and globalisation.
If I want to gain access to a particular market then I have to speak and understand the language of the market participants.
In some parts of our region, for example, children learn the languages of our neighbours as early as the kindergarten stage through play.
Children are fast learners and I believe we ought to be able to put this to good use.
In addition to a comprehensive information campaign, we must also propose concrete actions.
Educational measures must be improved, teachers must be given the right training and coaching, and it must not just be a matter of personal preference as to whether they take this step or not.
