Mr President, I shall also be voting for this resolution, which I consider to be reasonable.
If it can help to defuse the battle of words between the two sides somewhat, than it will certainly have served its purpose.
I regret that the Czech Republic is unable to defend itself here and present its case, as it is always good to hear both sides of such a complicated argument.
However, in the same spirit of openness I would also like to say that I do not think it is right for the Austrian Government and Parliament to be delivering a kind of ultimatum here.
That is not the way we have handled these things in the European Union up to now.
It is quite evident that there is a problem, but if we start issuing ultimatums then the next thing will be that a delegation will arrive representing displaced persons and demand that the Czech Republic can only join the Union if the Benesch Decrees are withdrawn.
And then some other group will come along demanding something else.
You have to be careful with ultimatums like this.
There are other ways of solving such problems.
But I would also like to suggest to the Czech Republic that they should pay serious attention to the concerns expressed by the German Association for Nuclear Safety.
That was another point I wanted to make.
My last, but important point, is one for the Commission.
We hear a lot about environmental impact, and that is fine.
But we also have the Euratom Treaty.
Article 37 of that Treaty effectively stipulates that the Commission must be kept informed about any plan for the disposal of radioactive waste in any form whatsoever.
The Commission also has to determine whether the implementation of such a plan is liable to result in the radioactive contamination of the water, soil or airspace of another Member State.
I know that the Czech Republic does not yet belong to the European Union.
Nevertheless, I would be interested to know what the Commission's view is in relation to this article, and whether it considers that the Czech Republic has respected it.
It would be interesting, as Gordon Adam has already asked, to know what its view is on the environmental impact assessment.
