For many years the European Parliament, the Member States and a whole range of organisations, by virtue of various legal bases, agreements and resolutions, have been tackling the issues of child protection, children' s rights, sexual abuse, sexual exploitation, sex tourism, trade in children and women and child pornography on the Internet.
The initiative of the Republic of Austria with a view to adopting a Council Decision to combat child pornography on the Internet will place an obligation on the Member States, and obligation is the crucial word here, to take measures to combat child pornography on the Internet.
This obligation must have legal implications.
The importance of the Internet is obvious to us all.
It has come to be indispensable as a modern communication tool.
We need it for exchanging information, for learning and for all sorts of operations.
However, increased use of the Internet also means increased access to violence and pornography, not least child pornography.
Children themselves have access to violence on the Internet, which must be objectionable to us all.
Parents are powerless in the face of this phenomenon because they cannot keep up with this technological progress.
We are extremely concerned, especially in the new MEDIA 2000 programme which is being drawn up, as to how we should deal with this problem in the future.
Consequently, an urgent need has arisen to combat child pornography on the Internet effectively.
This requires efficient software to determine the country of origin, to trace the images and to catch the perpetrators and those producing the images.
This in turn requires extremely advanced technology.
We need specialists who can develop access codes, which will also necessitate certain restrictions being placed on media freedom.
We need to network all the relevant organisations, the welfare organisations and NGOs, to facilitate rapid action and effective procedures.
However, we must not forget one thing: the main reason why children are forced into this is poverty.
We must combat poverty and intolerance and take this as our starting point.
This is the key to prevention.
It means that we must understand the children, but also that we must protect the victims, offer them assistance in reintegrating and help them to rediscover a normal life.
We must not, therefore, simply act in a preventative fashion; we must offer long-term help to those children affected.
