Mr President, first of all my Group would like to say how very grateful it is to the rapporteur, Mrs Izquierdo, for this report.
It represents the attempt we need to give the financing for groups and associations in the EU agriculture sector a legal basis.
This budget line has always been there, only there were no legal safeguards, and the Court of Auditors criticised us for this.
In producing this legal standard, the Commission has now put the matter to rights.
The only difficulty regarding implementation resides in the fact that the Commission is now to lay claim to a large portion of the budget for its own information measures - or so the report says - when previously, the budget was available in its entirety to the associations in varying amounts.
We have reason to fear that these funds are now to be withheld from the associations, and that is not a very happy turn of events.
Secondly, it used to be the case that the money was made available to the associations and it was for them to draw up their own criteria as to how the money should be spent.
This was, and continues to be, an unacceptable practice, and it is therefore right and proper that the criteria are now to be stipulated.
However, precise rates of interest are now to be fixed for the financing - Mrs Izquierdo has already made reference to this - which will mean that small associations having limited financial resources will be deprived of the opportunity to delve into this pot because they do not have their own resources.
The smaller, weaker associations will therefore be at a disadvantage.
That is why we welcome with open arms Mrs Izquierdo' s proposal that the possibility of full financing be allowed for where there is evidence that the measures meet the criteria, and where there is financial weakness - which may be the case throughout the region - so as to avoid these areas being completely left out.
All in all, our Group welcomes the fact that we are now to get a legal basis, and also supports the proposed amendments tabled by the rapporteur.
