Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I regret the tone that has crept in here, even though we are discussing some very promising and highly detailed work.
I would not wish to sink to the level that some of those present have opted for.
Parliament postponed the discharge for the 1998 financial year in April, but with no intention whatsoever of provoking a trial of strength with the Commission or even working towards a refusal of discharge.
There was a need for further clarification, which would take time and effort, and it was always my aim, as Chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, to complete the discharge process by the summer recess.
As these reports show, the past few weeks have been used to answer questions - albeit not all of them - and consequently, although our recommendation in respect of the outstanding discharges may not be unanimous, it is a positive one.
I welcome with open arms the fact that the Commission is willing to work towards a reduction of errors in budgetary management, with a view to receiving a better statement of assurance as soon as possible.
I detect a certain candour where the so-called old cases of suspected fraud are concerned.
We have never held the new Commission responsible for these cases as such, but would still like to know that the right lessons have been drawn from the past through reappraisal, so that these cases do not come back to haunt us one day.
There is something I would like to ask you in this connection, Mrs Schreyer.
When are the legislative proposals for a comprehensive legal and judicial area for the protection of the Union' s financial interests to be submitted?
We agreed, on the basis of my report in January, that they were to be submitted by 30 June.
It is 4 July today.
If there is one thing all those involved should be clear about where the impending grant of discharge is concerned, then it is this: We are not talking about a certificate of non-objection here.
In future, the institution must be more willing to cooperate and provide the Committee on Budgetary Control with the information it needs to do its work, promptly and without evasion.
If we build up confidence, reduce the amount of bureaucracy and exercise democracy openly - and this applies to so many areas - then I believe we will get back to being able to grant discharge on time each April.
