Mr President, I too welcome your report Mr Varela Suanzes-Carpegna, for as far as I can see, we share the same opinion where progress in the protection of fish stocks and ecosystems in the North Sea is concerned.
I also believe that the Commission' s achievements in terms of the monitoring measures speak for themselves.
I can assure you that I will continue, in the future, to pursue the course of action we have embarked on.
I would especially like to draw to your attention the fact that following the bilateral negotiations with Norway at the end of last year, medium-term management measures for cod, shellfish, plaice, sea salmon and mackerel were agreed and laid down.
I would also like to remind you that similar measures had already been introduced for North Sea herring prior to this, in cooperation with Norway.
These medium-term measures are completely in line with the precautionary approach to fish stocks management recently recommended at the International Council for Marine Research.
The Commission aims to extend the medium-term measures to stocks beyond the North Sea as well.
This has already happened in the case of certain important stocks in the Baltic, such as herring and sprats.
I am taking as read the fact that the implementation of the new regulation for the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juvenile marine organisms as of 1 January this year will bring about a drastic improvement in the protection of juveniles, not just in the North Sea but also in all the other Community waters of the north-east Atlantic.
We have made provision for new minimum catch sizes for mussels and crustacea in this regulation, alongside existing minimum catch sizes.
We have imposed a fishing ban in respect of sand eels off the north-east coast of England and the East coast of Scotland, and we have stipulated that trawlers may only catch shrimps using funnel nets or nets that have a sorting grid.
In addition, the provisions from the old technical measures regulation will, of course, be adopted and simplified as well.
I will quote a few examples: we have streamlined mesh sizes in such a way that species are grouped according to whether they are small, medium-sized or large, and one particular mesh size applies to each grouping.
For example, a uniform mesh size of 100mm applies to all larger species in northern waters.
In southern waters, a mesh size of 77mm applies to hake and other species.
So as to enable juveniles to get away, when catching Norway lobster and crabs in northern waters nets with square-meshed panels must be used which are arranged in such a way that the mesh cannot close.
As you know, when Norway lobster are caught, large quantities of juveniles of other species are often caught along with them.
These were just a few examples.
As you can see, these measures ought to provide greater selectivity.
We will, of course, continue to take a close interest in how the situation develops once these new measures have been introduced.
I hope the developments will be of a positive nature.
