Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung published a survey which showed that an overwhelming majority of my fellow countrymen were in favour of a more common approach to judicial matters.
No other area attracted nearly as much support for new initiatives at European level.
Other surveys in the past have always confirmed that this applies both to Germans and to the citizens in most other Member States of the Union.
We are therefore responding to the expectations of the people in tabling proposals on how to strengthen effectively the protection of the European Union against fraud.
There are without doubt more pleasant topics of conversation than fraud and corruption, I grant you, but discussing them demonstrates clearly that we are not sweeping this tricky question under the carpet; on the contrary, we are setting ourselves this challenge, in precisely those cases which affect the institutions of the Union itself.
This is why the Bösch report deserves particular attention and support.
It was not adopted unanimously by the Committee on Budgetary Control for nothing, as I have already explained.
Allow me to congratulate you on this report.
It clearly illustrates that creating the European Anti-Fraud Office OLAF is an important step, but is only a step on the path towards the European prosecutor which I have called for time and again both in a personal capacity and as rapporteur.
A public prosecutor' s office to protect the interests of the Union against fraud would be the only really effective instrument to counteract the threat from organised crime.
Organised crime has identified the institutions of the European Union as a particularly easy target.
I am delighted that both the Commission and Parliament have included this question in the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has gone one step further in this report.
We want an even more proactive approach and are therefore waiting for the Commission to present proposals for the first stage of a European public prosecutor' s office on the basis of the current Article 280 and I really do hope, Commissioner Schreyer, that you will revise your unfortunately somewhat wait-and-see attitude and accommodate us here.
Mr President, allow me to refer to what was indeed said earlier but could not be answered.
My question is to Mr Dell'Alba; could the honourable Member explain what I, as chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, allegedly blocked for weeks.
I require an answer and I should like it recorded in the minutes.
