Mr President, I should like to follow on from Mr Liese' s closing comment on climate change, to which Mr Marset Campos also referred.
It is perhaps not by chance that we have suffered tremendous devastation in Central America, Venezuela and Mozambique, not to mention in Europe, and it is likely to increase.
It seems reasonable to suppose that it is not increasing by chance and that it really is the result of man-made climatic changes.
I would therefore like to see a link established between how we view these disasters and energy policy.
There really is a link and I should like to draw your attention to it.
I only wish there were not.
The second point I would like to make is that aid should be used to integrate Central America.
This has been a perennial cause for concern to the European Parliament and we have called for it on many occasions.
In the final analysis, of course, this is up to the people of Central America.
But perhaps the shock triggered by Hurricane Mitch gives us an excuse to overcome the hostilities and difficulties between the individual countries.
In any case, the people would be grateful and, for the rest, our aid would be worthless without any progress with integration.
The third point I should like to make concerns the implementation of this aid.
I do not envy the Commission this task because I know full well that, in a few years' time, a report on the alleged or rightly criticised misuse of funds will land in our lap and I should like to point out that the cost of controlling these funds often exceeds the gain.
I hope that we shall be giving the Commission a certain amount of room for manoeuvre in the use of these funds because the speed at which programmes are implemented is often much more important than accounts in black and white down to the last penny.
I know that this is a comment which a parliamentarian should not make nowadays, but I make it nonetheless because I am right.
Finally, I should like to point out that the hurricane in October 1998 went beyond Central America.
It is now June 2000.
In other words, we too are an unwieldy apparatus and perhaps we too need to consider how we can speed up the process.
Even if we pass a resolution today, we are still a long way from building up the country; on the contrary, it will take many years, perhaps a generation.
I consider that to be far too long.
