Mr President, from this year until the year 2006 around EUR 200 billion is available for the Structural Funds, but only 5¾ % is set aside for the Community initiatives, INTERREG, LEADER, URBAN and EQUAL.
That is a reduction of 3¾ % compared with the previous CIs.
No more than EUR 2.8 billion is provided for EQUAL, as Mrs Stenzel' s balanced report makes clear.
This makes the large number of amendments and far too long a wish list of possible tasks all the more astonishing.
How are priorities supposed to be set here?
There is agreement on the principle that marginalisation, discrimination and inequalities on the labour market should be reduced.
Transnational strategies are intended to make it possible for disadvantaged groups to have access to jobs.
I have no sympathy for amendments once again backing the TAOs.
Criticism of the previous Commission' s work was particularly severe, legitimately so, with regard to these Technical Assistance Offices.
Our Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was, after all, in overall charge of analysing considerable shortcomings and failures to carry out checks in cases related to LEONARDO.
The Commission cannot therefore be relieved of direct responsibility or the task of carrying out inspections under EQUAL either.
It can only approve Member States' proposals if they fulfil all the criteria: firstly, integration through sectoral and geographical development partnerships, whereby the employment policy guidelines need to be taken into account; secondly, the systematic involvement of the operators concerned - the local, regional and national authorities, training institutions, universities, NGOs, the two sides of industry and the private sector - with the aim of creating a durable partnership, and thirdly, methods and models of indisputably innovative character.
The Commission must therefore be the guarantor of the strategic framework for promoting ability to work and quality of work, of the assessment of results and of the effective communication of best practices.
Only then will it be possible for the desired multiplier effect to be achieved.
