Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the Commission has presented two proposals for the amendment of the Regulations on the protection of the Community's forests against atmospheric pollution and against fire.
The purpose of these proposals is to adjust both Regulations in the light of the judgment of 25 February 1999 in which the European Court of Justice declared that Article 130s of the EC Treaty - which has now been renumbered 175 - was the proper legal basis for these instruments.
I should firstly like to say thank you very much to the three rapporteurs - Mrs Redondo Jiménez, Mrs Auroi and Mrs Sbarbati - who have been examining the Commission proposals that are under discussion today for their cooperation as well as for the amendments they have put forward.
This new legal basis automatically means that the codecision procedure under Article 252 applies and that the financial framework laid down in this Regulation becomes binding.
It was also necessary to bring the annual budgetary framework for these two initiatives into line with the amount of funds actually allocated by the budgetary authority in the period from 1997 to 2000 and with the amounts already earmarked in the preliminary draft budget for the year 2001.
That is why it is impossible for the Commission to accept Amendments Nos 6 and 12, which would involve an increase in the financial framework.
Nor can the Commission subscribe to Amendments Nos 5 and 11, which relate to the comitology and provide for the use of the consultation procedure in the case of both Regulations.
The Commission takes the view that this procedure would be inconsistent with the decision of 28 June 1999 on the comitology.
The Commission believes that the substance of the relevant amendments should be discussed again in connection with the revision of both Regulations, which is due to take place in 2001.
The Commission will present its proposals for their revision before the end of this year.
It has no problems, however, with Amendments Nos 1, 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14, 15 and 16.
