Undeclared gainful employment is just a euphemism for illicit work.
It is a problem all Member States face to a greater or lesser extent, and it exists for all sorts of reasons.
And there are mountains of regulations for tackling illicit work.
Of course these are only effective if they are implemented in conjunction with supervisory and punitive measures.
But introducing new European regulations is no way to go about tackling the problem of illicit work.
A new phase of Brussels-inspired regulating mania would be neither use nor ornament in the fight against illicit work in the Member States of the European Union.
Illicit work must be tackled at the roots.
Why, for example, are people prepared to do illicit work when it does not entitle them to social protection?
Why are employers prepared to take on illicit workers when they cannot offset the wage costs against tax?
Our rapporteur, Mrs Glase, rightly states in her report that the fight against illicit work is a task which cuts across a whole range of policy areas, such as finance, the economy, social issues, the labour market, and justice.
Illegal immigrants are engaged in illicit work, but industrial law regulations are not the way to go about tackling this problem.
Illegal immigration must be prevented, and many Member States are too lax on this front.
It is pointed out in the report that a particularly high number of illicit workers are women, principally in the service industry.
Particularly where domestic servants are concerned, employees are only too willing to pursue, and employers are only too willing to countenance, undeclared gainful employment; in the employer' s case because it cuts down on the administrative burden, and in the employee' s, because they can avoid paying tax and social contributions.
The collective taxation of spouses is a fundamental reason as to why - in my country at any rate - domestic servants simply do not want to be registered.
In addition, the amount of paperwork involved is a stumbling block to the lawful employment of domestic servants , particularly for elderly private individuals.
We certainly did not solve the problem in Luxembourg, but under the terms of the employment plan, we have released employers of domestic servants from the administrative burden, and I believe that the payment of a net wage to personnel of this kind represents a substantial improvement.
Naturally I voted in favour of the report, but I also wanted to point out that positive, tax-related and other measures are a more effective way of tackling illicit work than new, European prohibitive measures, particularly where women are concerned.
