Mr President, in response to the rapporteur' s intervention, I should like to clear up one small point.
The amendments to this report were tabled by myself.
I just want to straighten that out because Mrs Roth-Behrendt' s name was mentioned.
Azocolourants are dyes which release cancer-causing aromatic amines if they come into contact with human skin or with the mouth cavity.
That was also the reason why a number of Member States issued interim regulations to protect consumers, as well as the reason for the Commission' s initiative, which we are discussing this evening, whereby azocolourants are now to be prohibited throughout the EU and a ban placed on imports of these substances from third countries.
The draft we have from the Commission nonetheless has some gaps in it which compromise safety and which, in my opinion, need to be closed.
That is the purpose of my amendments, to which a large majority of the committee agreed.
We are mainly concerned with adding two further amines to the banned list because they have since been categorised as carcinogenic.
Moreover, the general description of the area of application that has been given is too vague.
We want an exhaustive, clearly defined list for the purpose of creating clarity and legal certainty.
By means of the voluntary stamp of quality and the interim deadline of 1 January 2006, we have also succeeded in taking account of the special problems presented by the oriental carpets industry and, in spite of these problems, in also including hand-made oriental carpets in the directive in the medium term.
We have also provided for an option whereby, until such time as new testing methods have been validated, two methods can be applied which take account of the differing demands which materials make upon the testing method.
With the adoption of these amendments, which have been decided upon by a large majority of the committee, any vagueness and lack of clarity in the directive would, all in all, be removed.
In this way, the directive would do justice to the demands which will have to be made upon it in view of the risk of actual damage to public health.
