Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as I, and I believe the majority of my fellow delegates are concerned, the crunch question is whether a programme will be put forward at the end of the Intergovernmental Conference that creates the conditions we need to strengthen our own foundation and admit a further 12 States.
When I hear the ongoing debate and consider how much opposition there has been from the Council over the past few months, some members of which are barely prepared to go beyond the three "leftovers" , then I think it is hypocritical to conduct negotiations with the candidate countries at the same time.
Today' s statement by President-in-Office of the Council Gama has inspired me with a little more confidence, but I still see no evidence of political will on the part of the other Member States.
Our goal must be to equip our parliamentary representatives at the Intergovernmental Conference with a clear negotiating brief, which we will then also use as a yardstick for assessing the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference.
In my view, it is crucial that we set down a clear marker for the proportional composition of a future European Parliament, subject to an upper limit of 700 Members.
Extending majority voting in the Council must lead to codecision rights for the European Parliament.
The Council must have open meetings when it takes on the role of legislator.
We need to clearly distinguish between competences at European and national level without delay.
The self-inflicted crisis in the Council is a matter of deep regret to me.
I would like to ask the Council how it proposes to pull off the stroke of excluding a certain Member State from taking part in discussions without any legal basis, when it needs this State' s support in order to achieve unanimity in the Council on Treaty amendments.
I cannot support the proposal in recital 29 of the report to make the procedure for suspending a Member State easier.
How I vote at tomorrow' s vote on this resolution will depend on the outcome of the vote on these issues.
