Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since February Zimbabwe' s political landscape has been characterised by the illegal occupation of farms, flouting of court judgements, intimidation and violence towards opposition parties, their candidates and supporters, and at least an attempt at restricting the work of national and international election observers.
We also know who bears the main responsibility for these acts of violence: it is the leadership of the ruling party Zanu-PF.
I will be more specific.
It is President Mugabe who has authorised the occupation of farms, frustrated efforts to enforce court judgements, and defended the lack of respect for law and order, sometimes against the advice of his own Ministers.
It is clear to me that this insight exposes a dilemma, namely that the person who is the main cause of the problem must also take responsibility, at least for a certain amount of time, for part of the solution to the problem, particularly in view of the need for national reconciliation.
Because the things we experienced and heard reports of at first hand, were shattering.
Not only did we hear that in some parts of the country, opposition candidates were unable to enter their constituency for fear of risking life and limb, we also learnt that large sections of the rural population were being systematically terrorised in villages or on commercial farms.
In addition, the government used its monopoly of TV and radio shamelessly to convey its own view of things.
The opposition press only reached the urban population.
Elections that take place under such conditions cannot be described as free and fair.
All the more reason why I should regret the fact that several African observers evidently reached the opposite conclusion.
In so doing, they did democracy, but above all, the people of Africa, a disservice.
All those who have campaigned for their democratic rights, despite the adverse circumstances, deserve respect and recognition, particularly the national observers and the many thousands of electoral assistants who managed the practicalities of the election process with great fastidiousness and commitment.
I would like to make particular mention of the professional manner in which Pierre Schori led our committed team acting on behalf of the Council, i.e. the EU observer mission.
Unerringly, and following precise analysis, he reached a verdict that we as EP observers wholeheartedly embrace.
The presence of the EU observers clearly reduced the scale of violence and intimidation.
I would like to express my deepest thanks and appreciation.
Pierre Schori and his team have rendered outstanding service to democracy in Zimbabwe.
Now the elections have taken place we want to see some changes.
Tension is obviously rising in the rural areas, partly because the President has failed to issue a statement clarifying matters, and this situation gives cause for concern.
More farms have been occupied since the elections.
There are reports on individual acts of violence towards opposition sympathisers.
The Archbishop of Bulawayo has received death threats.
We demand the punishment of all those guilty of criminal acts against their fellow citizens, an end to lawlessness when the necessary land reform is being carried out, and respect for court judgements on the occupation of farms.
The aim of land reform must be to benefit those who are truly needy.
It is still important for us to engage in dialogue with the government, the opposition and the socially relevant forces, so that in future, Zimbabwe is able to make a contribution towards stability in southern Africa.
