Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I was asked: why are we so keen on short sea shipping at European level?
The answer is: we have a vision.
We see large quantities of goods transported round our continent on safe, environmentally-friendly ships.
The goods are unloaded at the point where they can reach their destination via the shortest possible overland route.
That takes the burden off overland transport by adding another link to the chain of intermodal transport.
Of course we are still many sea miles away from making this vision come true, although some progress has been made over the past two years, as the report shows.
Mrs Peijs' good report describes the existing obstacles and the strategies for realising our visions.
There was broad agreement in committee.
What can we do internally for short sea shipping?
I just want to mention a few things.
In the technical field we can introduce more environmentally-friendly technology for ships' engines and specific terminals for express transhipment.
In the organisational field, and especially for cross-frontier transport, we can introduce uniform shipping documentation, simplified administrative procedures and fewer pilot services in cases where they are not absolutely necessary.
What can we do for short sea shipping as a link in the intermodal chain?
First, we can improve the interfaces with other modes of transport by introducing modern systems of transhipment - especially to inland shipping - standardising containers, promoting transport logistics services for the entire transport chain and by many other means mentioned in the report.
I think we should also consider all these matters with a view to our pre-accession strategies.
Meanwhile we have the activity of the round tables.
The report says that an exchange of best practice would be useful.
That is true, for why have we been calling for some time now for a reference centre for intermodal transport.
It would be sensible to engage in more research and above all to set up demonstration projects in the field of intermodal transport.
All in all the report offers a whole package of sensible proposals.
I hope that the next progress report in two years' time will tell us that we have moved a little closer to our vision, our vision of a successful intermodal transport system in Europe.
