Mr President, and I would have been very surprised if you had not been the one to chair this sitting again.
After all, it is a good day for Europe' s seas, as it for you personally, Mr President, because I know you are a keen diver.
We would all be delighted if you had even cleaner waters to dive in in Europe.
But the sea is our primary concern.
I believe we are in a position to congratulate each other today.
We can congratulate both the rapporteur, Theo Bouwman, and the delegation, because we have succeeded in improving some crucial aspects of the directive, or should I say, the Council' s common position.
It had been watered down, and I believe Parliament has secured coherent measures for all concerned
Firstly, mention has been made of the fact that all ports will have to provide reception facilities for waste and cargo residues.
This is an important step.
Secondly, all ships will have to pay, irrespective of whether or not they use the facilities.
That is the real principle that is being brought into play here for the first time.
The sums involved will not be small; they will be considerable.
It is true that we cannot be completely satisfied with 30%.
That much is absolutely clear.
Nevertheless, the 30% introduces and establishes the principle of a 'no special fee system' .
Naturally there is room for improvement, but with this principle in place, every one will have to pay their way.
Thirdly, all Member States must carry out checks on at least 25% of shipping.
I believe we should urge them to exceed the 25%.
We should challenge them to increase the number of checks.
After all, on so many occasions, we have been forced to recognise that, where ships docked at ports are concerned - take the 'Erika' for example, or other ships - monitoring is one of the crucial issues.
If there is no monitoring, there is no point in having any regulations.
On balance, the point of this directive is that the criminal discharge of waste on the high seas will no longer be as profitable as it used to be.
I also feel that marine pollution should no longer be treated as a trivial offence.
Europe' s seas are becoming cleaner, which will benefit the flora and fauna, and not least, the fishing industry.
This directive will also have a very positive effect on tourism, in the long run, for it will scarcely be possible to sustain tourism if there are no clean beaches.
So it is a good day for Europe' s seas and also a good day for you, Mr President.
