Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a debate in which so many things have already been said I need not repeat myself, but I cannot fail to respond to two comments by Mr Gollnisch who, unfortunately, as usual, has now left the Chamber.
Mr Gollnisch is a fascist delegate in this House who takes advantage of every opportunity, not least in this Chamber, to slander others.
It is the left-wingers or the gays who are responsible for child pornography.
He beautifully tars everyone with the same brush.
The left-wing French Government is responsible for the abolition of the criminal register of sex offenders and is therefore responsible, in the logic of this arch-fascist, for child pornography.
This is the type of poison which he spouts here.
Then he slips away because the sole reason why this pack of hounds sits in this Parliament is to permanently set upon others and then slink back into its holes to evade the responsibility of debate.
At any rate, these fine people do not participate in parliamentary work and it is time that this was made known because they are only ever speaking for the benefit of the visitors.
Then it all sounds so wonderful.
The reality is that these fine people do not partake in 99% of the work.
They spout their poison and then push off.
I share the opinion of Mr Hager that we should also place an obligation on providers.
I think this is a worthy point which Mr Kirkhope should take into consideration in his report.
I also expressly support the view that we should not move away from criminal-law liability.
It cannot be right to release from criminal-law liability one of the primary areas where human dignity is violated, particularly taking into account the special need to protect minors.
I believe this must be made clear, even if it has sometimes been disputed by the groups on the left.
On this point, Mr Hager is correct.
One final comment: the permanent availability of sexual material in the exclusively anonymous private sphere, which is conditioned by the structure of the Internet, and the attendant fact that sexual abuse is removed from public and, hence, social controls, is one of the central challenges with which we are faced as a result of this new aspect of human lifestyle.
We cannot resolve it simply through Interpol and more stringent criminal law.
The Internet, as evidenced by child pornography, presents totally new challenges to our subjective, individual sense of responsibility.
We should discuss this in at least as much detail as the tightening of criminal law.
