Mr President, nine million jobs today, twelve million in ten years.
Tourism is a wellspring of jobs in Europe yet we still do not have reliable statistics enabling us to identify the different employment sectors.
There are no far-sighted support measures and nor are we concentrating on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Since we are a long way off having a knowledge-based strategy it is little wonder that that there is a lack of awareness of Community dimensions.
I have never understood how certain Member States could boycott the Philoxenia programme when in fact this initiative is designed to unite tourism, environmental and cultural concerns.
Hence I would like to ask Commissioner Liikanen if he intends to give this programme any chance at all.
Tourism simply does not feature in most national action plans for the transposition of our common European employment strategy.
I was able to demonstrate that there is a great deal of potential here in my report on future jobs, which the European Parliament adopted here almost exactly a year ago.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs expressly included elements of this paper in its position.
Tourism, history, education, sport, health, ecology and rural development produce considerable synergistic effects.
By improving infrastructure measures, conserving our cultural heritage, nurturing regional traditions, and offering local products, it will be possible to enhance the appeal of even the most out-of-the-way regions.
Those who stand to benefit on the job creation front include tourist industry workers, marketing and software experts, environmental consultants and those in charge of target groups undertaking enquiries.
It is easier for jobseekers and those with fewer qualifications to find work in tourism.
It is usually easier to combine a working and family life.
Nevertheless, part-time and seasonal jobs carry with them the risk of unregulated and unsecured working conditions.
The dialogue with the two sides of industry, as well as with local authorities, must be stepped up.
Therefore, whilst quantity of staff is important on the tourist industry front, so too is quality, which can be consolidated and enhanced by means of further vocational training.
People can be trained in communication skills and creativity.
Team spiritedness, a sense of responsibility and management know how can be achieved.
Multilingualism and a capacity for empathy with foreign cultures will enable people to gain a better understanding of our Community.
Which is why it is all the more important for us to create stable foundations for a European approach, whilst always upholding the principle of subsidiarity of course.
In my view, this includes having certificates of qualifications, i.e. diplomas that are recognised by all Member States.
We need to set the scene for this.
Therefore, there is a lot to be said for tourism as a driving force in employment and integration.
More than any other sector, it is tourism that brings home to us the fact that, ultimately, the big, wide world is a global village.
