Mr President, child sex tourism is not a national or a European problem, it is a global problem which has become more and more explosive and more and more extensive over recent years.
The motion for a resolution which has been tabled takes account of this fact.
It no longer has a selective, national or European dimension.
The worrying increase in the number of cases of sexual exploitation of children shows that the European Union and its Member States need to use every means at their disposal in order to protect the weakest members of our society, i.e. children.
The motion for a resolution therefore contains two central demands.
First: unilateral criminality should apply in cases of child sex tourism; that means that even if the country in which the offence is committed does not punish sexual abuse, it must nonetheless be possible to prosecute offenders in their country of origin.
Secondly: account must be taken of the principle of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
We need standard national legislation throughout Europe which punishes Union citizens who engage in child sex tourism, irrespective of where the offence was committed.
Europe must take responsibility for its citizens, even beyond its borders.
These demands can be succinctly summarised: children are no less deserving of protection because their home country denies them the necessary protection, and there is all the more reason not to turn a blind eye to incidents within the European Union.
Each of us knows of cases of child abuse in our own country.
The Council and Commission have indeed supported the principle of extraterritorial jurisdiction, but these drafts still allow for the criterion of dual criminality in exceptional cases.
In other words, in exceptional cases, it would still be possible for sex tourists who have abused children to escape punishment if the country in which the offence was committed does not punish child abuse.
The European Parliament flatly rejects this regulation on possible exceptions.
The Member States must be proactive in opposing anything which encourages or plays down child sex tourism.
Respect for the rights of the child must be anchored in the European Treaties if we are to guarantee protection for children in principle.
Measures taken so far must be examined to see how effective and efficient they really are and EU funds must also be made available in the future to fight child sex tourism.
The role of NGOs is particularly important in this context.
The Commission is called upon to draw up a survey of national laws in this sphere and, if necessary, to submit suitable proposals setting out the constituent elements of offences.
All the points which it has now been decided should be regulated and taken into account in the future within the European Union must be given the same consideration in accession negotiations, in relations with third countries and, most importantly, when deciding how development cooperation funds should be deployed.
The freedoms and rights of citizens include freedom from physical and mental harm.
This applies not only to our children but to all children.
It is our duty to implement this with all the means at our disposal.
Everyone involved agreed on this consensus.
In my view, this resolution sets an example for constructive and fruitful cooperation which goes beyond the party political divide.
I should therefore like to thank all my fellow Members, especially those from the other committees involved, whose positions have been worked into my report.
This is also an explanation of the fact that numerous proposed amendments were rejected by my group.
They are already contained in the report, even if some are formulated differently.
I am convinced that this is a good, sensible resolution which will allow us to protect children.
