Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, you spoke of a detailed programme in your introduction.
I would like to comment on two aspects of this programme, notably the common security and defence policy and enlargement, with specific reference to Turkey, and would also like you to clarify a few matters.
Mr President of the Commission, I am in favour of creating a European defence identity, including the military dimension thereof, and I welcome with open arms the outcome of the unofficial meeting of the Defence Ministers in Sintra.
However, that must not be the end of the story.
What is difficult on the one hand, and new and important on the other, is conflict prevention, i.e. the non-military aspect of our security policy.
Conflict prevention is a difficult matter because we have no examples on which to base our formulation of these elements of security policy, unlike NATO, which can teach us a few things.
The Commission must take responsibility, launch initiatives, and submit projects in this sphere, which needs to be developed from scratch.
We need specific proposals for instruments for non-military crisis management, such as delivering and deploying humanitarian aid - Mozambique is a good case in point - aid for the development of democratic institutions and procedures, election monitoring; we need to build up a corps of conflict advisers and a police force and so on and so forth.
I need not go on listing the instruments we need ad infinitum.
I would like you to comment on this, Mr President of the Commission.
You state in your programme that you want to introduce a pre-accession strategy for Turkey.
I would willingly support you there if I knew what you meant by this.
Following the Helsinki decisions, we in the European Parliament demanded a catalogue of measures and a detailed schedule, which would enable Turkey to be prepared for fulfilment of the Copenhagen Criteria - in particular the political criteria - in a concrete and structured manner.
My group was completely committed to Turkey' s being granted candidate status at the Helsinki Summit.
We welcomed this decision and are very keen for this state to accede to the European Union.
It will be a difficult task given Turkey' s shortcomings on the political front.
Which is all the more reason why we need to develop a very clear, concrete and detailed policy, i.e. a catalogue of measures and a schedule.
Can we count on your Commission to submit suitable proposals to Parliament in the near future, on preparing Turkey for accession to the EU?.
