Mr President, my task as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market was a relatively easy one compared with that of the honourable members in the committee responsible, and I would like to congratulate them all on the outcome, even if we do have to discuss a few compromise amendments in plenary today.
The reason I said that my committee' s task was an easy one, is because the proposed draft directive raises few difficulties from a legal viewpoint, and nor is there a great deal of room for manoeuvre when it comes to framing policy.
I would also like to say how impressed I am with the logistical quality of the draft directive, which certainly cannot be said of all the Commission' s draft directives.
Pursuant to the new Article 63 of the EU Treaty, it is now the Community' s task to settle the matter of family reunification, and the Community must take these measures in accordance with the provisions of international law, in particular the European Convention of Human Rights and the other instruments of international law already mentioned by our committee chairman.
The right to respect for family life is a universal human right.
It is not divisible and cannot be reserved for EU citizens alone.
This would be a dubious line to take, particularly as we are concurrently working on a European Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If Community provisions are now to be put in place for family reunification, we also need to close incomprehensible and, in some cases, absurd gaps in the existing legislation.
This particularly applies to the right of EU citizens themselves to live together in their home land with family members originating from a third country and not to be in the position where the only way they can live with them as a family is to avail themselves of freedom of movement and settle in another Member States.
Therefore this directive is only too welcome from a legal viewpoint, and it is to be hoped that neither Parliament, nor, more importantly, the Council, will make any changes to the substance of the Commission' s original draft.
