Mr President, Commissioner, first let me thank the rapporteur, on behalf also of my political group, for this report and for the strategy she proposes, namely to accept this common position as it stands.
We found this strategy convincing and we too can recommend that the plenary of the House adopt the Council' s common position on the e-commerce directive unamended.
We do so primarily because we believe that this key component of the European legal framework for the information society needs to be implemented swiftly.
Let me emphasise that another reason why we are able to adopt it unamended is because the Council - exceptionally, I am tempted to say - has incorporated many of the European Parliament' s amendments at first reading.
That does not mean, however, that we do not still see much room for improvement, as other speakers have pointed out as well, and some of our wishes have not been fulfilled.
But if we are prepared to set these wishes aside for now, for the sake of the speedy adoption and implementation of this directive, we also expect the Member States, when they implement it, with appropriate monitoring by the Commission, to resolve all the questions that are still not one hundred percent settled without this being at the expense of aspects that are important to us, in particular consumer protection.
Here I am thinking above all of the interpretation of Article 1(3), which is still worded in a very ambivalent way.
I hope that article will not be used to undermine national provisions on health protection, such as the ban on the mail order sales of certain medicines.
I think we are also entitled to expect that the proposed codes of conduct, which will give those involved in e-commerce a very wide margin for self-regulation, will be drawn up as soon as possible and that they will be very comprehensive, with the participation of consumer protection organisations, in such a manner as to be really binding and easy to implement.
I think we can also describe the rules that we adopted on provider liability as generous.
I can only hope that they stand the test of time and that we will not have to revise them again in three years' time in light of practical experience.
The adoption of the e-commerce directive does represent a very, very important step, yet a few other key building blocks for the e-Europe are still missing.
As the rapporteur pointed out, the Council is dragging its feet on the common position on the distance marketing of financial services, on copyright in the information society.
We also need to make more rapid progress in setting up out-of-court settlement procedures and the small claims procedure.
Finally, I hope that the directive we are to adopt will also serve as a good stepping-stone towards finding equally good global solutions.
