Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report to the European Parliament on the results of summits is always an experience.
It is an experience because if only half of what is regularly announced to us really happened, if Europe had already achieved the results which have now been presented to us as the slogan of the European Council - fighting unemployment and putting the European Union in the leading position on the world markets -, this alone would be a success.
Has the Council still not learned how little its political promises are worth when it then fails to implement anything and trivial matters are blocked in the Council for years?
Has the Council still not learned that we never solve any problems in Europe because we keep shifting them to European level?
Can the Council really back out of its responsibility in the individual Member States so easily?
As the European Parliament, we should not accept this.
The right model for successfully meeting the challenges of globalisation is competition for the most successful economic, employment, research, education and social policies, not European dumbing down.
Who, if not Europe with its different traditions and cultures, can find an answer to this, provided that we leave responsibility for problem solving where it belongs, namely with the Member States?
It makes no sense to define European targets for economic growth if we do not remove barriers to growth at Member State level.
It makes no sense to unify education policy at European level if we still have countless problems with arrangements for recognising diplomas.
Even the desire to connect all schools to the Internet is not a question, which should be dealt with at European level.
It needs to be done locally.
As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I warn you against doing this with European funds from the European budget.
Lisbon missed its big chance to really improve things substantially for the citizens of Europe.
Instead, all we heard were pipe dreams which can never be checked and for which the Council is responsible in the Member States, not at European level.
In the end, people will take their leave of such a Europe.
We must not allow that to happen.
