Mr President, Commissioner, the general lines along which this Directive is discussed are of little concern to me.
I am no lawyer and am not in a position to judge.
What is true is that insufficient account has so far been taken of environmental interests.
Just in the last three days, the car and tyre industries have indicated in this Chamber that their options may well be open when it comes specifically to car tyres.
My group is not at present overly concerned about whether the figure is to be 1, 3 or 4 decibels, but we should like to make it clear that we want positively to force the tyre industry to act and do more of what is required of them in this area.
The motor oil, car and recycling industries have made a lot of things possible where road use by individuals is concerned.
In contrast, the tyre industry has largely refrained from taking action.
It is in this area that we want them to do some catching up.
We shall doubtless at some stage also have to talk about alternative road surfaces in Europe.
I believe that this is a positive way of forcing the tyre industry to act.
I should therefore like straight away to forestall some of my fellow MEPs who now and again stand up jokingly and say that Mr Florenz wants a reduction of two decibels where possible but is accepting a 10 metres longer braking distance in return.
Obviously, we want to maintain standards.
We expect innovation.
We expect the tyre industry to employ young engineers of both sexes and finally to go some way towards meeting people' s justified demands to be exposed to less noise in their homes.
That is a task we have set ourselves, and I hope that the Commission will be prepared to cooperate.
It is possible, as we shall see in one or two years' time, that the industry will be able to achieve these objectives of ours by the year 2005.
If that were not possible, I am the very first to concede that we need to broaden our field of operations somewhat.
But the industry must be forced to act, and that is what we shall be campaigning for at the present time.
