A very good evening Mr President, Commissioner.
It is unusual, but you know that I have the highest personal regard for you and am therefore delighted to see you here this evening.
Interoperability is a fundamental issue and, if we take it seriously, the time has come to admit that the European Union has failed over recent years.
We have made no progress whatsoever with interoperability.
I think it is extremely important that we again inform the Council, where everything is diligently recorded, that 40 years after the creation of the European common market, we have made no progress in the railway sector.
I hope that the draft report by Mr Savary, whom I should like once again to thank for his draft, and I should also like to thank my colleague Mrs Jeggle for her shadow report - I hope that if we manage to persuade the Commission and Council to accept the draft report, we shall be reasonably well placed for the future.
I also hope that the Council will accept our proposed amendments.
We have taken a great deal of trouble and Mr Savary has also tabled umpteen proposed amendments for the plenary sitting, which we support, in order to achieve a report which the Council can accept, thereby avoiding a conciliation procedure and second reading.
I hope that the Council will do so and I call on it to act responsibly.
Having made no progress whatsoever with interoperability for years now, the Council should accept our decision tomorrow so that we can make some progress and avoid yet another second reading and conciliation procedure.
The difficulty which must be acknowledged is, of course, that the internal market can only function if we have uniform systems in the long term and we must ensure that we really do make progress here.
I also call on industry in Europe to abandon the policy it has pursued over recent years of separating off its national market by deliberately not manufacturing rolling stock which can be used in other countries.
Everyone has staked out their own market, which is why we have this fragmented railway market in Europe - and this is unacceptable.
Allow me one more closing comment.
Mr Swoboda, who is about to speak, and I shall soon be discussing the Railway Pact here in the House.
We are opening the markets but we need interoperability in order to do so.
These are two aspects of the overall complex and I therefore hope that the Council really is wise and clever enough to accept the proposed amendments which we shall probably adopt by a large majority tomorrow.
