Madam President, first of all, I would like to answer a number of specific questions that have been put to me.
I will firstly answer the questions put to me by Mr Poettering and Mr Cox, whom I would like to thank for their fair-minded contributions to the debate.
I am very pleased to note that you have formed a different impression of the relationship between Parliament and the Commission, to the one I very briefly described.
I must confess that I have also found this to be absolutely true in my own experience.
I have been asked to withdraw this evaluation.
I am only too pleased to do so.....
.... because this debate has shown that I was obviously mistaken, and I have no difficulty whatsoever in admitting this!
I would like to address Mr Cox again.
You picked up on a particular German word that I used, and for which the English translation is 'dirty work' .
I would just like to explain that in the part of Germany I come from, this word implies nothing more than painful and hard work.
I did not mean anything else by it......
(Heckling from the Chamber)
.... and the interpretation you gave it certainly comes very close indeed to what I really think.
There is no need for us to have yet more discussions on the decision-making process regarding the introduction of the euro to Germany.
At the time, I was chairman of the special committee of the German Bundestag, which prepared for the ratification of the euro in Germany.
This process was concluded as early as the end of 1993.
There are no further decisions to be made on the subject, the matter is closed.
People said at the time that the public had not been sufficiently involved.
Any one of my German colleagues would testify to that, and that is what I brought out again in the interview.
Incidentally, to sum up, I would like to point out that as I see it, this debate has revealed, firstly, that there is a very large and broad consensus of opinion between the Commission and Parliament on the key question as to how necessary, important and irreversible enlargement is, and, secondly, that we are also very much in tune as to the need to work together to secure the people' s support for this momentous project.
(Applause)
