Mr President, I should like to start by thanking Mrs Ferrer for her excellent report.
She has gone to a great deal of trouble and has used her report to set out the problems and the advantages and disadvantages of this project with Mexico.
This is a trade agreement which falls within the competence of the EU and, as you rightly say, we only have the option of saying yes or no.
We cannot renegotiate the agreement.
All in all, our Group will vote in favour of this trade agreement, which we welcome.
For the rest, I should like to say to Mr Folias, who worries about the problem of footwear that, generally-speaking, trade relations between Europe and Mexico have always proven their worth in the past.
We might have been able to dispense with the Lannoye report on chocolate yesterday had Mexico not given us cocoa in the past.
In fact, chocolate - "chocolatl" - is a Mexican word.
We can therefore use past experience to help develop future relations with Mexico.
The advantage to Mexico is obvious.
This agreement will enable Mexico to redress the imbalance of its one-way dependence on the USA to a certain extent.
I should like to remind the House that 85% of Mexico' s exports go north and only 5% come to Europe.
Mexico stands to gain here by achieving a better trade equilibrium.
Mexico' s automobile industry, which is partly of European origin, certainly also stands to gain from the possibility of exporting vehicles to Europe.
We too stand to gain, as does European industry, be it on the Mexican market or by exporting to the USA via the Mexican market.
As far as trade is concerned, there are advantages all round.
I should like to go briefly into, or at least touch on, two problems.
The first are social problems; in other words, Mexico will certainly have to review its social policy because trade policies alone will not solve social problems.
When free trade increases, there are also losers.
Poverty in Mexico has risen rather than fallen.
Social policy is therefore an important area for Mexico and we should build this into the dialogue with Mexico.
The second is scientific and technical cooperation.
I think that there is potential here which can be exploited between Europe and Mexico.
