Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a long-term, workable social protection system in which men and women' s particular lifestyles are safeguarded on the basis of equality, is indispensable to social cohesion and stability for our society.
The mutual interdependence of issues pertaining to the national economy, employment policy, and social protection in the internal market calls for there to be joint deliberations at Community level in this respect.
We have not achieved equal rights for men and women either in the sphere of work or that of social protection.
The unemployment rate for women is considerably higher than that for men.
It is still much more difficult for women to gain access to certain professions and there are far more women than men in precarious and part-time jobs.
Wage levels for women are still way below those for men.
As a result, they have a low level of social protection or none whatsoever, for paid employment serves as the basis for this according to systems currently in force.
Many women are only accorded derived rights, which reinforces their economic dependence.
In view of the fact that economic and social conditions have changed, we should aim to achieve individualised social protection, with people being treated independently of their partners, and guaranteed lasting security.
However, it must still be worth an individual' s while to work, notwithstanding all the necessary contributions.
Reforming social protection must encompass support for and recognition of, in insurance law terms, the time it takes to bring up children, as well as care of needy family members.
It is shocking that an ever-increasing number of elderly women live in poverty.
They were unable to contribute to the social security systems because of the time they invested in bringing up their families, but they too must be afforded protection.
An individual' s entitlement to high-quality health care must be assured, irrespective of their contribution to the economy.
As before, in principle it is the Member States that are responsible for framing and financing their social protection systems.
Nevertheless, cooperation within the EU on the part of the expert working group, in which women must be suitably represented, could be instrumental in bringing about convergence of the social systems in the long term.
