Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the President pointed out in his introduction, it has taken five years for the basis of the October 1995 report to evolve into the report we are dealing with now.
This can be attributed to the fact that the market development of digital television has been much slower than anticipated.
However, digital television has become increasingly important over the last few months and years, in the wake of media convergence.
The Internet and home banking via digital television are examples of how the range of services has widened.
This report will form the basis of a draft directive.
Our group has two demands to make of the framework regulation for digital TV.
Firstly, the framework must not restrict the meteoric technological development in this sector, and it must not be too rigid.
Secondly, the framework must, however, safeguard the European internal market and consumer interests.
We want to, and must, work within these two parameters.
This entails the following: firstly, the transmission obligations are still an important means of meeting social requirements, for example minority language programmes or the important role of the public broadcasting sector.
Secondly, there is the interoperability of the access systems to digital TV at subscriber level, as mentioned by the previous speaker Mr van Velzen.
It is unacceptable for subscribers to need several receptor boxes in order to receive programmes.
It should be one box per subscriber and no more.
Thirdly, technical interoperability must not be compromised or undermined on account of national monopoly formation or abuse of a dominant position.
As I see it, our aim is to create a European internal market, promote technical development and bring about television without frontiers - something the two previous speakers touched on - and that includes making sure that in future, citizens of other countries who are resident in the European Union are able to receive their pay TV services.
I am delighted with the report by Mrs Thors.
We adopted a very well balanced report in committee.
Unfortunately, I am unable to endorse the two proposed amendments tabled by Mrs Thors, on behalf of our group, for the same reasons advanced by Mr van Velzen.
We intend to vote against both proposed amendments.
Apart from that, we congratulate you on this report and hope that in the course of the next few days and weeks, the Commission will present a sound basis for a directive.
