Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like once again to point out that Commissioner Reding has announced a dramatic change in the information strategy of the EU and has thus made it clear that there are deficiencies, that fresh efforts must be made and that we must make this issue a focus of our concerns.
We thank you for this.
Secondly, I would like to point out that we too must ask ourselves whether this morning' s initiative to prevent voting was a positive information and communication strategy for Parliament outwardly as well as inwardly?
I do not think that it was!
The homework which we have to do we must do ourselves and we must not confuse information and communication within the framework of our work with self-promotion.
It is a matter of Community promotion and not self-promotion.
In this regard we should all resolve to understand that one of the causes of the problems of the political parties and of the institutions is a problem of communication and information.
We, and I say that very clearly, the institutions of the European Union, the European Parliament and the delegates cannot bear sole responsibility for providing information on Europe.
Without the support of the Member States, without the support of the public representatives at borough, county and national level, without the support of all the institutions, we will not get directly to the citizen, because either we are here doing our work or we are involved in communication and information processes with our citizens.
We cannot do both at the same time within the meaning of Maastricht and Amsterdam!
Commissioner, I am waiting for your master plan, your schedule, your specific measures for implementation.
The public mandataries, all persons and institutions who receive money from the EU, should be involved in this implementation.
We must increasingly involve the visitor groups and also two areas of activity which, in my opinion, are in your sphere of responsibility, i.e. schools and youth, and the staff in the offices of the Community institutions must be equipped accordingly.
Please submit to us a specific plan of action and a schedule.
