Mr President, Commissioner, the European Year of Languages 2000 is intended to achieve several goals, one being to promote awareness of the fact that linguistic diversity within the European Union is part of our cultural heritage.
In addition, we intend to open the eyes of as many people as possible to the benefits of knowing several languages, as a crucial aspect of personal development, career development and improved communication.
It is also important to me personally not just to target schoolchildren and students, but also to redouble our efforts to reach the socially disadvantaged, and immigrants, and to offer them prospects and opportunities for the future.
The exchange of information, the collation and processing of experiences, as well as the development of new, modern methods of improving access to languages and making it more efficient, is also one of this project' s key areas of concern.
Unfortunately, it will not be possible, given the available budget of EUR 8 million, to do as many of you have urged and place special emphasis on, and promote, the minority languages, which must of course be taken into account in the regions concerned - I know this from my own experience, coming as I do from a region in which there are three minority languages.
The main aim of this Year of Languages is, as has already been said, to urge the people of Europe to learn several languages, both for their own benefit as the basis for improved understanding and integration within the European Union.
The report has been prepared and agreement reached on more than 100 proposed amendments within a very short space of time.
The flexibility and readiness to compromise displayed by all those involved was most impressive.
The rapporteur, Mr Graça Moura, was a particularly judicious and committed negotiator working in the interests of this project.
I would like to extend my heartfelt thanks and congratulations to him.
Notwithstanding all the positive aspects, I would also, however, like to take this opportunity to voice my criticism of the Council, which Parliament has been unable to rely on as it needed to.
Two weeks ago, we reached agreement with the representatives of the Council, the Commission and Parliament, but I am sorry to say that this was called into question on Monday of this week.
We cannot accept this kind of behaviour, and we expect the Council to give its representatives a mandate for negotiations, or to confirm to us that further talks will be necessary.
In this way, we will be able to avoid wasting time in the future.
I believe it is important for people to come together and with that aim in view culture is an important mainstay and language an indispensable one.
