Mr President, you should listen to the Commissioner!
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt whatsoever that biotechnology and genetic engineering are highly significant fields these days.
They will continue to gain in importance in research, and in terms of their many applications.
No one doubts that either.
But is this difficult field, with all the hopes and fears it brings, being handled in a manner that is beyond reproach?
I suspect not.
Today' s debate is positive proof of this suspicion.
As a Parliament, we are reacting too hastily to a legislative proposal in a Member State of the European Union, which caused consternation amongst the public a few days ago.
And what form has this reaction taken?
A quick glance at draft resolutions on the table reveals that all Parliament has been able to do, in its haste, has been to reiterate its already frequently expressed stance on critical fields of research and the application of biotechnology and genetic engineering.
That is all very well, but it is not enough!
We must make biotechnology and genetic engineering, but above all bioethics, one of the European Parliament' s key concerns.
I am not alone in calling for this; I have the backing of my group.
The people of Europe want to see more foresighted commitment from us in this area.
We cannot afford to be overtaken by events any longer.
We must no longer be in the position where - huffing and puffing to catch up - we find ourselves commenting on developments that are already at an advanced stage.
The European Parliament must point the way, so that biotechnology and genetic engineering develop for the benefit of mankind, rather than being to its detriment owing to the transgression of ethical boundaries.
Therefore we should vote overwhelmingly to adopt the proposed committee, which will form the basis for far-sighted legislation.
We must be aware that biotechnology is bound up with what is presumed to be the greatest revolution in medicine and technology.
This revolution must not be attended by irresponsibly conceived legislation.
We must appoint the best experts to advise the Council and ensure that there is consistency in the legislation across the Member States.
The ethical issues and the need to protect human dignity, in particular, are so important that we cannot afford to leave them at the mercy of fragmented, possibly even contradictory pieces of legislation introduced by individual Member States.
We must get to grips with all the ethical issues raised by medicine, technology and science, as a matter of urgency.
The appropriate parliamentary committee must therefore get down to work as quickly as possible.
Our vote will set this in train.
