Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pensions issue, which is what we are discussing today, is a very sensitive one.
As a young Member of this Parliament I am of course thinking of young people, whose pensions are currently the least secure.
We also need to safeguard freedom of movement in Europe and to ensure that those individuals, particularly young people, who are mobile within Europe do not suffer any disadvantage compared with those who remain in their own country all their lives.
So as not to lose sight of the fact that we want secure pensions, what we also need to do is to liberalise the financial market in Europe and to create a framework so as to make the single market, as well as the German and the European financial market, competitive in the face of global competition.
The PPE Group has not taken the easy way out.
We are still having intense discussions on this, focussing in particular on the second pillar, in the course of which we have learnt that the first pillar, state pensions, is no longer viable and we must strengthen the second pillar.
Two arguments are in order here.
If we are to strengthen the second pillar then it must be made equivalent to the first and built up accordingly, that is, it must take account of the biometric risks.
Or one could argue that it is necessary to admit new products so as to enable this sector to develop in an effective manner and yield the necessary return, thereby securing pensions for the future.
My personal preference is to make people fully aware of the biometric risks and to put this issue right at the heart of the Commission' s agenda over the next six months.
When it comes to the three biometric risks in question, I have a particular preference for longevity, which is an unshakeable fact in my view.
But we should not establish a system today.
The world keeps spinning, as do the financial markets, and we should also be open to new influences.
We must accommodate subsidiarity within the competition of systems, but also within the competition of taxation law.
I hope that the Commission will do justice to this task.
