Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Jové Peres, may I remind you that the Commission itself discovered many years ago that growing nuts in the European Union involves certain difficulties!
Part of the reason for this, and you are right in saying this, is undoubtedly the keen international competition which exists, but the main reason is that there are various structural deficiencies in the main nut-growing areas.
We unfortunately discovered that these structural deficiencies above all result in low productivity and high production costs.
In view of these difficulties, a support system was introduced back in 1989.
But even at that time it was limited to 10 years, and its objective was to improve the nut quality and marketing.
This system involved a significant financial commitment.
Between 1990 and 1999, this system led to expenditure totalling EUR 725 million.
And as the contractual obligations are still in force, and run up to 2006, this year and in the coming years a further EUR 250 million will be paid out.
In addition, a separate flat-rate aid for hazelnuts was introduced in 1997.
However, as I have already said, it has been clear from the outset, as everyone affected knows, that there is a time limit on the measures to promote sales and that the objective is to facilitate the adjustments necessary to increase competitiveness.
In view of the fact that the programmes will in part be continuing up to 2006, no further measures are planned under this budget heading.
However, I would like to point out that a different form of support for nuts that did not exist previously has now become available.
Above all, the general aid scheme for fruit and vegetable growers under the "operational fund" also provides for measures of this kind, and of course additional, non-market-specific measures are also possible under the rural development programmes which had to be submitted this year.
However, none of the programmes submitted to us by the Member States, including those Member States with substantial agricultural areas, contains any proposals for measures of this kind, so that no such need was evidently identified when drawing up the programmes.
That is the present situation, and that also sets out what the Commission is in a position to do in this field so as to counter negative trends.
But the Commission should not be attacked if it was agreed beforehand that rural development was to be the responsibility of Member States and included in their programmes, and if at all possible at regional level within the Member States.
So that is where priorities for supporting rural development need to be set.
