Madam President, I actually feel that we ought not to have continued discussing this because we said everything there was to say in the last debate.
Unfortunately, there has been no change in the way that the Council always talks about culture but fails to allocate any money for it.
We have the feeling, and are in fact convinced, that the Member States would be more than happy to withdraw the things they wrote in 1992 in the Treaty of Maastricht.
For no one is very keen to spend money on culture.
Sadly that is the case and we must face facts.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, who really has chipped away tirelessly at this monumental task, in conjunction with the Commissioner of course.
We simply had to take on board the fact that whilst we actually attained our goal in terms of content, of course the same could not be said of the financial aspect.
One seems powerless in a dialogue of this kind, where the other party actually has to reach a unanimous decision.
What kind of horse-trading system is this?
Certainly not a fair one!
There are always people who are in a position to reject everything and there we are on the other side, begging for a little more money for culture.
It is downright scandalous what goes on!
It is an awful sort of horse-trading, based on unequal positions!
Nevertheless, we are pleased that this programme has turned out in the way that we wanted it to.
It lives up to the expectations the citizens have of us.
We will support small and medium-sized events, not the large ones, and we will afford individual citizens and also the smaller operators easier access.
I believe that the fact that Culture and, fittingly, Education and Youth now fall within the same Commissioner' s remit, will also serve to guarantee more synergy between these three programmes, which are certainly worthwhile programmes for the citizens of the European Union.
If one puts all the money together and creates synergy then one can be a tiny bit satisfied, but then only a tiny bit.
It is my hope that we will be able to achieve a lot of synergy with a little money.
