Mr President, Commissioner, as long as there is a demand for child pornography, it will be produced.
As long as there is a trade in pornography, the Internet will be used to carry it out, because the Internet offers an extra benefit, namely it masks the consumer and keeps the supplier, for the most part, in the shadows.
However, as long as this demand exists, there will also be abused children scarred for life.
I therefore welcome this initiative, which was finally put forward so comprehensively by the Austrian Presidency.
Above all, I welcome the proposals for expanding the initiative which the rapporteur, Mr Kirkhope, has made.
He has made a major contribution to the instrument, which the Member States can now take up, being more efficient than ever before.
I would like to pick up on five points which seem to me to be particularly important in the fight against child pornography.
My first point is that not only should the sale and distribution of child pornography be punishable, and indeed should incur punishments that will act as a deterrent, but that the possession of child pornography itself should also be punishable.
My second point is the age limit.
It cannot be set high enough.
I therefore appeal that the target which the Committee has set itself, i.e. of establishing the age of 18 as standard at European level, be implemented as soon as possible.
16 is just the first step.
The target must remain 18.
My third point is that we need experts in the fight against child pornography on the Internet.
And it is even more important that these experts join forces, that they are coordinated, and here again Europol presents itself as the appropriate institution.
My fourth point is that the register of persons who have been convicted of the distribution of child pornography or of the sexual abuse of children will hopefully be implemented across Europe as quickly as possible and that access will be available to all Member States and Europol.
My fifth point is that we should proceed according to the personality principle in order to punish criminal acts as efficiently as possible.
In conclusion, I would like to appeal first of all to the individual responsibility of all those who use child pornography for their own gain.
They are responsible for its being produced and for the harm it causes children.
I would also like to appeal to the Member States, in the interests of the most vulnerable members of society, to implement as quickly and efficiently as possible the measures proposed by the rapporteur in his excellent report and by the Austrian initiative.
