Mr President, first of all, I should like to thank Mr Veltroni.
As rapporteur, he has done some very good work, including work of a very cooperative nature, and I should like to thank him very much for that.
However, thanks are similarly due to the Commission which has provided an outstanding basis for the discussions between the Committee and Parliament.
The audiovisual sector basically faces the task of having to develop in two main fields.
Firstly, it is a means of generating future jobs.
Secondly, however, it is also of great significance for securing cultural diversity and freedom of speech in Europe.
It is therefore important always to keep both perspectives in view.
I should like briefly to illustrate this by way of three examples.
Firstly, it is necessary to regulate content and methods of transmission differently and independently of each other.
We need a form of technology which can respond very quickly and very flexibly to the technological revolution.
I would just mention the buzz word 'Internet' at this point.
However, we not only wish to guarantee people universal access to all networks but also need to ensure that young people are protected and human dignity assured by means of legal regulations which, independently of the method of transmission, safeguard these values that are indispensable to us all.
Secondly, consider the level at which decisions are made.
Where the issue of technology is concerned, we need increasing cooperation among the Member States at European level.
When it comes to issues of content, however, we want to know that, in the first place, the Member States are willing and able to safeguard cultural pluralism and diversity of opinion.
Thirdly, television in Europe.
We have both commercial and public service broadcasting which both require clear statutory frameworks in order to be able to develop in competition.
We therefore say a clear yes to the protocol of the Treaty of Amsterdam on public service broadcasting and to the Member States' responsibility for commissioning and for securing finance.
We are also, however, saying just as clear a yes to the task of developing and promoting commercial television companies in Europe so that they can compete effectively worldwide.
That is the crucial precondition for safeguarding European cultural content, with the conditions of future technology in mind.
