Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, this framework agreement between the European Parliament and the European Commission represents a great step forward in relations between our two institutions.
My Group called for this framework agreement, and it is very much committed to it.
Relations between the Commission and the European Parliament will be put on a very firm and clear footing, and it is our common goal to support the building of Europe.
The Commission is the executive, we together with the Council are the legislative, and this framework agreement will create means for the European Parliament to exercise its parliamentary control function more effectively.
It goes without saying that future regulations which become Community law in the European Union will not be affected by this framework agreement.
As legislators we are of course free to set these in train.
This framework agreement is based on the principles of parliamentarism, democracy and transparency.
The Commission has once again incorporated in this agreement, in a legally binding way, the concessions that it made to the European Parliament last September before it was elected - the 'five points' .
These items relate to the annexes on the legislative procedure, and the involvement of and provision of information to Parliament regarding agreements and on enlargement issues.
They also concern the passing on of confidential information.
Of course not everyone' s requirements have been met, including some of our own, but it is not always possible to achieve everything.
However, taken as a whole, this agreement does represent progress, and I would sincerely like to thank everyone involved in it - you, Madam President, Vice-President Loyola de Palacio, the President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, and also the political group leaders, who showed great commitment in their work on it.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats will be unanimously voting for this agreement.
