Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr Commissioner, I really wish with all my heart - given my political views - that the Portuguese had had an easier presidency, a presidency without the strains caused by the bilateral sanctions imposed on the Federal Austrian Government and therefore on my country.
I wish above all that you had not had to take the blame for a policy possibly cooked up for you by others.
The longer this policy remains on the boil the more indigestible it is, not only for my country but also for the whole European Union.
You see, you cannot help but notice a certain contradiction in the fact that these measures were intended to be entirely political and were also taken at political level and yet to find a way out of this blind alley - which is entirely desirable and in everyone's interests - a solution is now having to be sought by means of a legal instrument.
It was not least for this reason - since these measures are of course devoid of any legal base - that Parliament's President, Nicole Fontaine, pointed out at the beginning of the Feira summit that the European Parliament had adopted a resolution on 15 June calling on the Council to analyse relations between Austria and the other 14 Member States, and to draw up with all the parties concerned a procedure which would enable a solution to be found which would be acceptable to everyone.
This procedure seems to have been established: the President of the European Court of Human Rights has been appointed and he in turn will nominate three wise persons who will report on Austria.
In this context I must say that it is regrettable that no timetable was drawn up here.
That would have made the exercise easier.
It is very regrettable that even before this forum starts work its conclusions are already being prejudged by the future President and the work of the forum is coming under pressure because people are acting as though it were politically irrelevant.
I can only hope that people accept the political relevance of this report from this legal institution and that a golden goal will be scored here under the French Presidency, namely an early end to the sanctions against my country!
