Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the increasingly frequent meetings of the Heads of State and Government of the European Union mean that they are increasingly unable to fend off charges that they are tackling issues which actually have no business at European level while continuing to ignore the issues which they should be addressing.
In Feira a clear delimitation of responsibilities between European level and the level of the Member States was not discussed; the lifting of the absurd sanctions against Austria was not discussed, and neither was a really workable compromise on the taxation of savings interest discussed.
The conclusion reached postpones the problem for 10 years.
Conversely, issues were debated which at the present time do not belong on the European agenda.
With how many countries should we actually begin further negotiations?
We must at long last develop phased procedures to govern cooperation between the European Union and countries in central, eastern and southern Europe, which meet the needs of both parties including where these stop short of full membership.
What is the position on compliance with the convergence criteria when admitting further states to the euro?
Sustainable stability must be proved by all countries which want to join the euro zone, but also by those which are already in it.
Only in this way will it be possible to boost the strength of the euro.
We do not need closer cooperation on the social dialogue - that goes beyond the powers of the European Union!
We do not need more centralist regulation in this field; if we really want to unleash the forces of growth in the EU we need more competition between the individual national social security systems.
Only the results in the field of security and defence policy are to be welcomed.
Here Europe needs to act; here we need more Europe.
That is what the people of the EU rightly expect of us.
I call upon you as a matter of urgency to put an end at long last to the sanctions against Austria - and we do not need a report from the Court of Human Rights to do this either, as the media is in any case monitoring the situation on a daily basis - and to concentrate your efforts on the real European issues!
