Mr President, Mr Väyrynen' s comments just now about concentric circles remind me a little of a hole with circles drawn round it, looking at Switzerland and Europe.
I hope this hole will be filled sometime in the next few years with the accession of Switzerland to the European Union.
For then we would not have to negotiate and decide seven different agreements but all this would be a matter of course.
I very much hope we will make progress in this regard over the next few years.
But perhaps these seven agreements are a preparation for that debate and I very much hope that just as Parliament will be approving these seven agreements by a large majority tomorrow - or so I assume - the Swiss people will also approve them by a large majority on 21 May in order to make it clear that Switzerland is part of Europe.
I would like to say a few words about the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation because I myself have been repeatedly involved in that area of cooperation with Switzerland over the past few years.
I warmly welcome that agreement because basically it means that Switzerland will take part in the European Union' s framework research programme on an equal footing.
To that end, it will pay a contribution in line with its GDP yet participate fully in the programme.
That is a major advantage for both sides.
Yet there is one drawback: it is the European Parliament and the Council that decide the content of this programme, not Switzerland.
That means that Switzerland, like Israel, Norway, Liechtenstein and Iceland, which also take part in this framework research programme, can only participate in something that is decided over their heads.
They have no say as regards its content.
So I would propose that we take our time preparing the sixth framework research programme and that we at least hold informal talks with the Swiss parliamentarians - just as we do with Israel, Norway and so on, i.e. states which do not belong to the EU but which do take part in the framework research programme.
That is something the European Parliament could organise.
Parliament could take the initiative and invite parliamentarians from these countries, so that we can know in advance what input the Swiss can contribute, what problems they may have, what proposals they may have.
In fact, this would also be a step towards bringing Switzerland and the European Union closer together.
I would very much hope we could do that.
Aside from that, let me thank Mr Carraro again for this excellent report.
Anyone who wants to learn will find a great deal of information in his report.
Once again, many thanks and I hope we will adopt it by a large majority tomorrow.
