Mr President, I am certainly now unsure as to whether we have all read the same report.
As far as I am concerned, practically all measures pertaining to proactive economic and employment policy have recently been dropped from the draft report by Mr Katiforis.
It might still bear his name but it no longer bears his hallmark.
I believe that in the face of such an unfortunate coalition in the Committee on Economic Affairs - allow me to use the term "aberration" - in the face of such an aberration, the facts, as presented by the Commission, speak for themselves.
We have an employment reserve in the European Union totalling not 15 but 30 million people, who would be more than happy to participate and get involved.
According to the Commission, this employment shortfall costs the European Union between 12 and 20% of its GDP every year.
Ideological questions of the 'should there be more or less state intervention' variety have no place in situations of this kind.
In such situations, there is a need for joint efforts on everyone' s part to overcome this deplorable state of affairs and to translate proactive ideas into action.
There is sound evidence as to the accuracy of this theory.
Ladies and gentlemen, those of you who voted against the Katiforis report in its original form in the Committee on Economic Affairs, please take a look at what the Commission put forward itself last Monday in the way of proposals for the Extraordinary Summit in Lisbon.
What will you find in the Prodi paper?
If you read these proposals - I have read them too, Mr Karas - if you follow them carefully, Mr von Wogau - unfortunately, Mr Gasoliba i Böhm has now left - then that is where you will find the things you voted against, namely concrete targets for increasing employment levels to 70% by 2010.
This is precisely the logic that Katiforis used.
You will find concrete targets for reducing the unemployment rate to 4%.
That is exactly what Giorgos Katiforis wanted in the original wording of his report.
You will find a clear statement to the effect that full employment is not one issue amongst many but the core issue of European economic policy.
That is precisely the intention behind our proposed amendments.
Hence, we would hope to receive the broad support of this House, for Parliament should not go back on something the Commission has already recognised with regard to Portugal.
