Mr President, the mother of a victim of the bombing who was interviewed on television asked "How is my child to blame?"
Why should women, children and defenceless civilians always be the victims of military action?
Over 32 people were killed and 40 were injured in the bombing of Kurdish villages by the Turkish military in Kendakor on 15 August.
This is a bloodbath and a crime against humanity.
It is a sign of the Turkish Government's attitude towards peace and towards the Kurds at a time when the Kurds had made a peaceful gesture.
As a spokesperson for the Turkish Ministry for Foreign Affairs has confirmed, Turkey from time to time carries out operations against the PKK, who have now, for the third time, declared a unilateral ceasefire.
I would like to know why arms are being delivered to Turkey right in the middle of the pre-accession process, and why arms factories are being built.
Why were the human rights organisations and World Peace Day banned on 1 September?
Is it really possible to accelerate the democratisation process using weapons and arms?
The answer is no.
The best way to achieve peace is a peaceful solution of the Kurdish problem and respect for human rights.
Why is that mothers always have to suffer?
Can we not help to foster fellowship and peace between the Kurdish and Turkish peoples?
I welcome the MEDA programme, which states that all state, legal, political, cultural and social discrimination against the Kurdish population by the Turkish Government should cease.
Granting EU financial aid to Turkey should be tied to solving the Kurdish problem, and this aid should be devoted to overcoming the economic and social underdevelopment of the Kurdish region.
Bombing civilian populations should no longer be allowed in this century.
I wish to condemn this inhumanity and want to see an end to this crime.
Those guilty of such crimes should be condemned.
I call on the Council and the Member States to consistently condemn the bombing of Kurdish villages and to make representations to the Turkish Government for them to start negotiations with the Kurds' democratic representatives for a political solution as soon as possible.
That is the fast track into the EU.
