Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I bid you good morning!
It is in fact the case that all politicians ought to feel a sense of responsibility for this programme and take it particularly seriously, for if we do not succeed in convincing young Europeans, who could pass these convictions further down the line, the European edifice is on shaky ground.
We must therefore do everything we can to create the conditions that will enable girls and boys to feel at home in the Europe we have created, and to respect and appreciate the differences between people.
This youth programme is an important instrument for teaching people to show mutual understanding and display tolerance.
Voluntary activities in the environmental and cultural spheres help people to learn what Europe is really all about and also to learn other languages.
Interpersonal contact alone facilitates the acquisition of democratic values and promotes understanding on the part of European citizens.
That is what this programme is intended to achieve.
I feel now is also the time to say that it is not on for Austrian young people to be excluded from taking part in these programmes as a consequence of so-called bilateral sanctions.
This is misguided and should be contested by everyone, and particularly by this Parliament and the Commission.
This new programme has enabled us to consolidate and improve on previous youth activities.
Thanks to our proposed amendments we have also improved the level of social protection for participants.
Of course the total amount that has now been made available does not suffice, although concerted action on our part enabled us to get more out of the Council than they wanted to give.
But the total amount gives the lie to the Ministers who get up on their soapboxes to speak!
I am certain, however, that we will make the best of it, and many young people will benefit as a result
I would also very much like to thank Mrs Gröner for taking on this mammoth task and still being able in the end to reach a satisfactory outcome with the Council and the Commission.
Thank you very much and the best of luck!
