Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the report before us, undoubtedly so that we can make improvements to it, as the rapporteur, Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines said.
I also think, however, that we ought again to use this morning' s discussion to raise awareness once more and to make people aware of education again.
We are all delighted with the new achievements of our age: travel, the Internet, mobile phones and simultaneous television broadcasts from the other side of the world, as we are now experiencing again with the Olympic Games in Australia.
These are all achievements, but also signs of the time and of the society in which we live: the information age, the information society, the age of knowledge, technology and globalisation, to mention but a few designations.
All are characterised by a very rapid pace of change and by an enormous number of transformations, indeed revolutions, which have been triggered, and continue to be triggered, by the new knowledge.
The dissemination of information and knowledge is now incomparably faster and more extensive than it was even a few years ago.
People must be prepared for this vertiginous and fascinating roller coaster of change.
From the earliest days of childhood, from schooldays in fact, the key words have been lifelong learning.
That tenet is now only half the truth, however, and it cannot remain so, for the processes of change and transformation in society, in the world of work and in the environment are by no means over after school or after training, but continue and become still more marked.
Human beings must therefore learn to meet these challenges themselves and to adjust to lifelong learning.
Only in that way can we all, in future, also participate in the fine achievements of our age, that is to say, hold our own in the ever more rapidly changing competitiveness of life - both personal and professional - and both seize and help to create opportunities.
In order to help these insights come to the fore throughout Europe, 1996 was designated the European Year of Lifelong Learning.
With relatively modest financial resources of ECU 8.4 million from the European Union, a much welcomed ECU 34 million was raised for the project with the help of partner countries from the European Economic Area: Liechtenstein, Switzerland and Norway.
In many congresses, seminars and PR events, there was constructive discussion in all areas of society of the necessity and opportunities for rethinking education in the direction of lifelong learning.
These are opportunities - especially for Europe and European integration - of which we can avail ourselves here and now: knowledge of other languages, other cultures, other ways of life, everything that is so important for us as Europe grows together.
The European Year of Lifelong Learning set us thinking in a way which must be continued and consolidated.
