Mr President, Commissioner Liikanen, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr van Velzen, warmly on his report, which brings out succinctly and precisely the essential elements of the extensive and complex communication from the Commission, and also forms an accurate assessment of them.
Approximately two years ago, the national telecommunications markets were successfully liberalised by Community directives and the transposition thereof.
A new legal framework will be framed this summer at European level, as Mr van Velzen has already mentioned.
It is intended to strengthen competition, particularly at local level, and will take account of our experiences with the existing legal situation.
Furthermore, a new legal framework tailored to new dynamic and unpredictable markets with considerably more players than there are today must be drawn up.
Permit me briefly to address four key points that are also to be found in the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, on whose behalf I am able to speak today.
Firstly, particular attention must be given to the transposition of existing directives, so that what are still major disparities in the liberalisation of the national markets do not become entrenched, thereby impeding implementation of the new regulatory framework.
Of course, this is where the Commission comes in, as Guardian of the Treaties.
Secondly, the possibility of deregulation, or rather the gradual transition from sector-specific rules to general competition law must be enshrined in the directives as of now.
However, that too has already been catered for by Commissioner Liikanen and his team.
Thirdly, the new legal framework must take account of the convergence of the media.
However, this should not lead to the highly competitive mobile radio communications market, which has grown freely, being subject to the same rules as apply to the fixed network.
In any case, the operators are currently being hit hard by the auctioning of UMTS frequencies.
According to the experts, it will take them several years just to raise the funds needed for auction.
This alone is very detrimental for Europe' s future industry, the mobile radio communications sector.
We must not add to the problem by imposing ex-ante access and interconnection obligations on investors in transmission infrastructure and introducing the instrument of operator selection developed for the fixed network.
Fourthly, ultimately, the unbundling of subscriber access should be laid down in a binding manner.
The competitors of the former monopolists should be afforded direct access to the final customer via the telecommunications cable in all Member States, so that they too are able to offer broad band services.
This kind of competition will increase the number of Internet connections with a high data transmission rate and reduce the cost of Internet connections.
So as not to disadvantage those Member States that have already complied with this requirement, it should be left to the Member States themselves to decide which aspects of unbundling subscriber access they wish to lay down in a binding manner.
