Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, like many of my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party, I reject the Dary report, but there are also some amendments that seem very reasonable to me.
I have in mind above all Amendments Nos 33 and 34.
Amendment No 33 calls for financial support for ecologically sound farming in third countries also.
Amendment No 34 calls for fair trade bananas to be supported regardless of their country of origin.
By the way, I think it is a shame that the Greens are not taking part in this debate and also highlighting these aspects.
But through these two amendments this House is clearly indicating that it also wants a global approach, and there are certainly small producers who behave in an exemplary fashion, not only in the traditional ACP countries and in the EU, but also in Latin America and in the non-traditional ACP countries.
In Ecuador, 60% of banana producers are small producers with less than 20 hectares, and they are suffering from unjustifiable discrimination.
The world is not just black and white, as some people would have us believe, and the Latin American countries have been quite justified in their complaints to the WTO about our common market organisation.
That is why contradictions exist within the Dary report, which, on the one hand, advocates a global approach and support for fair trade bananas throughout the world, but, at the same time, continues to create difficulties of this kind for small producers in Latin America.
I consider fixing the quotas for ten years to be a step in the wrong direction, and I believe that the Commission was already going the right way before this.
To my mind, they could have moved rather more forcefully towards liberalisation, but they were going in the right direction.
I would of course be delighted if Mr Chichester' s amendment, which I have also signed, were to be accepted, but I would like to tell Commissioner Fischler that even if this amendment is not accepted, Amendment No 5, which was accepted by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, will give him the remit of coming up with a workable compromise acceptable to the WTO.
That is why I believe that the Commission will, in any case, have a mandate to negotiate, including a mandate from Parliament.
