Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members present in the House, Mr Savary' s report is an excellent piece of work and he deserves both thanks and recognition.
I should like to focus in my speech on three aspects and I am sorry that Mrs Jeggle and Mr van Dam take the opposite view on two of these aspects.
First, liberalisation of the railway networks in the Member States and the establishment of a common market for railway services is addressed from the point of view of free access and transit rights for the infrastructures of the Member States in cross-border traffic, especially freight traffic.
And new technical specifications for interoperability are at the forefront here.
In my view, the proposed extension to the concept of interoperability, by including questions such as the professional qualifications of staff and the need for health and safety regulations at the workplace, is of paramount importance and a vote in favour of the report by my group depends on it.
Most national railway systems in the Member States have comprehensive rules governing the aforementioned social aspects and rather than lose them in the process of liberalisation at European level, we must harmonise them at the highest possible level.
At this point I should like to support the call for more authority to be given to the merely advisory voice of the social partners in the sectoral committee and for the European social partners to be granted equal decision-making powers similar to those in many national regulations, when resolutions are passed.
Secondly, in addition to agreeing to the minimum level of technical harmonisation proposed in the report, the preparation of ex ante cost-benefit analyses and the order of priorities for drawing up TSIs, my group sets particular store by including the social partners, associations and organisations, passengers and users in the work of drafting and checking technical specifications for interoperability.
Thirdly, we also support the proposal to allow representatives from the candidate countries of Central and Eastern Europe to attend committee meetings from the outset.
The plan to involve them in the process of discussing and setting TSIs from the outset is important if the technical standards and specifications of future candidate countries to are to be brought into line early on with current developments in the EU.
This will allow us to ensure ahead of time that the infrastructure in these countries can keep pace, thereby helping to minimise the separate costs which the European Union would otherwise incur.
