Mr President, we are spending a few minutes discussing an issue which, although seemingly a long way from Europe, is really close by because, in today' s world, trouble spots can reverberate throughout the entire world.
It is in the interests of all of us to prevent a new crisis and a new war in Kashmir, because, in the final analysis, it would come down to a military conflict between two countries which are equipped with atomic weapons, which are striving for atomic weapons and which are prepared to acquire atomic weapons.
Whatever the details, whichever way you look at it, it is a damned dangerous situation which we have to avoid.
Without making a value judgement, I think that both countries, India and Pakistan, must exercise extreme restraint.
The one with regard to increasingly frequent violations of its borders and the other with regard to increasingly frequent proven discrimination against sections of the population, especially Muslim sections of the population in India.
I do not want to make an assessment, I do not want to put it on the scales, but both sides are guilty of fanaticism, in this case religious fanaticism and extremism, which is making this trouble spot more and more dangerous.
The European Union - and we have debated human rights, xenophobia and discrimination at length over the past few days - must fight against this extremism with all the means at its disposal wherever it occurs, at home, in the candidate countries or throughout the entire world.
We have to support all available initiatives.
We are not the ones in the hot seat when it comes to taking initiatives.
The United Nations and, without doubt, the United States of America find themselves in this position.
But it is incumbent upon us to state clearly that this conflict needs to be resolved, not exacerbated.
In this sense, Mr President, I consider it important for Europe to raise its voice and call on both countries, both India and Pakistan, to do whatever they can and to offer them both international aid if they consider that it is needed or makes sense in order to resolve this conflict.
What we must not do is keep quiet.
