Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has already been mentioned today that the first URBAN initiative was an unqualified success.
The fact that this initiative will now be continued in the form of URBAN II, albeit with a smaller budget, is something for which we have to thank individual, committed Members of this Parliament, including in particular - as far as I have heard as a new Member of this Parliament - the rapporteur Mrs McCarthy, whom I should therefore like to thank very much for her dedication and of course also for her report on URBAN II.
A new feature of the URBAN II initiative is that it has been tailored to small cities or parts of cities.
This is important because it is precisely small cities which often find it harder to access aid.
And yet the problems which give rise to the urgent need for regeneration can be particularly acute precisely in cities of this kind and thus have a proportionally adverse effect.
To increase the effectiveness of individual measures the number of projects for URBAN II has been limited to 50.
I think that it is important not to stick rigidly to this arbitrary quantitative restriction and instead to leave it to the Member States to decide between how many projects they each wish to divide the support funds to which they are entitled.
In any case it is necessary to ensure that in small Member States in particular it is not only areas of large cities which are again in receipt of the support.
There URBAN II would only be a drop in the ocean; its success would be doubtful and the whole thing would be a flop.
Just as important in my view is not to broaden the selection criteria for URBAN II too much and thus water them down.
It is precisely a strictly defined list of criteria which is essential if the programmes which are funded are to be models and be transferable to other problem cities in the future.
From my own experience of local government in an old industrialised region beset with problems, I should like, in conclusion, to ask for your particular support, ladies and gentlemen, for two points in the report which alongside the social policy aspects are, I believe, essential.
Firstly, environmental protection is essential for sustainable urban development and the inclusion of this aspect should therefore be a general requirement for a project to receive funding.
Secondly, preventing and combating routine urban crime and crime related to drug dealing must start at local level.
These are essential steps towards increasing the quality of urban life and must therefore also play a central role in the URBAN II initiative.
