Mr President, the point of the special summit in Lisbon next week is to define the European way in the future world of employment.
How can we become more competitive?
How can we create new markets?
How can we create permanent, more highly-qualified jobs?
We can take one of the leading roles in tomorrow' s global information society, provided that we learn the script.
Europe has talents.
Europe has skills.
Occasionally we lack competent directors to motivate us.
I personally feel that it is important for broad target groups to take an active part in these serious changes.
They need to familiarise themselves with the Internet and data bases from an early age.
Mrs Hieronymi pointed that out.
Schools without computers must become the exception.
We need a qualification offensive with computer-aided learning and active use of networks.
The European Parliament' s Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is calling for the information society to become the common property of all citizens, including the socially weak, the disabled and older people.
The pace of change is hotting up in the European economy.
Undertakings are subject to constant restructuring, new holdings, strategic alliances and friendly or hostile takeovers.
The consequences for both employees and managers is the same: greater mobility and faster and faster adjustment.
Independence is increasing, as is pseudo-independence.
Within companies, responsibilities are changing.
Teams have shorter and shorter sell-by dates.
That has repercussions for the internal composition and the representation of the interests of employees.
Many companies are too small to set up works councils or are so large that relationships are not even forged and employee representatives become roving ambassadors.
People in ICT professions who have a great deal of freedom, analysts, engineers and creative planners, want to be their own bosses.
They are fighting for new working time regulations and new variable contract-based tariff and remuneration systems.
In addition, trade unions in other areas fear that unregulated structures will spread and social standards will drop.
Citizens must be familiar with new forms of work and working relations in the information and communications industry, be they in the hardware sector, the software sector, services or consultancy.
Once they are able to share in innovation, once they can be won over by the information society, then it must be made clear that this is a success or an advantage not just for private- and public-sector undertakings, but for consumers and employees alike.
