Mr President, I shall not have the last word; that is the Commissioner's prerogative.
I wish to subscribe to the thanks that have been expressed to the rapporteur and to emphasise that I have heard from insiders that the programme has so far been an unqualified success.
I believe that one reason for this has been the way in which the support has been accompanied by intensive consultancy and local networking.
This needs to be re-emphasised.
The MEDIA desk and the local MEDIA branches have proved to be very useful instruments.
It is vital for these accompanying institutional measures to be retained.
The MEDIA branch offices help to minimise the obstacles to European cooperation, for example.
On the one hand, MEDIA is about culture and common European cultural traditions in the audiovisual domain.
This is still a rather tender sapling which needs our undivided attention.
Moreover, as other speakers have already pointed out, it is also an economic asset that is judged by its success.
One key criterion of the success of the new MEDIA programme will be its support for the development, marketing and promotion of films that the public wants to see.
I make no attempt to conceal my own personal view on this matter.
Hollywood cannot be beaten, in my opinion, by money and quotas but only by quality.
Recent years have shown that people are interested in many different types of film.
Europe must not shy away from this window of opportunity.
We must continue to foster this encouraging development, and to that end the budgetary increase requested in Mrs Hieronymi's report is a logical move.
Finally, I should like to mention that many of the roots of our European culture lie in Central and Eastern Europe.
A higher budget will also make it possible to involve the Central and Eastern European countries to a greater extent in these programmes.
The last word on an increased budget may not yet have been spoken, and we shall perhaps be discussing further increases over the next few years.
