Mr President and Mr President of the Commission, only yesterday I attended an event organised by the producer association for crab fishers in my country.
Approximately 100 cutter owners and fishermen concerned themselves solely with EU fisheries policy, discussing matters such as market organisation, the supervision regulation, the structural regulation, technical measures, FIAF, MAP IV, the flora and fauna directive and the questionable manner of its implementation, and lastly, the trilateral cooperation with Denmark and the Netherlands which has proved highly successful on account of its being voluntary.
It was this association that succeeded at last in getting higher prices for the trade.
The 1999 crab season proved very lucrative.
The men were amazingly young.
In addition, three young fishermen passed their exams with flying colours, and the EU was not subject to scathing comment, as has often been the case in the past.
Of course I picked up a few tips for the Commission along the way, as well as a log book which has been a must for every fisherman since 1 January 2000.
Of course there was an ironic undertone and their intention was clear.
We in Brussels and Strasbourg should get down to recording our successes in meticulous detail, too, as the fishermen do their daily catches.
At the same time, a primary school teacher asked the children: "what jobs are there by the sea?"
One little boy said: "there are fishermen" , to which the teacher responded: "they have all died off though" .
The little boy knew better.
His father is a fisherman.
And then, Mr Prodi, I read your Commission programme for 2000, which prompts me to ask: "Are fisheries a thing of the past in the Commission' s eyes as well, for there is no mention of them?"
Surely the fisheries sector is one of the areas where we really see EU community policy at work.
But of course we have the Intergovernmental Conference of 2000 to come.
There are the leftovers from the Treaty of Amsterdam.
The Commission has yet to keep the promises it made at the hearings on Parliament' s codecision rights.
The common fisheries policy will come into play as of 2002, and there is the fact that Parliament' s legislative basis for negotiation on international treaties is inadequate.
Be that as it may; today, Mr Prodi, you mentioned fisheries.
I am relieved and will be able to say to the fishermen at home: "we live to see another day after all!"
And you, Mr Prodi, should convey the same message to the teacher through your actions.
