Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first, I should like to thank Mrs Klamt for this comprehensive and thorough report.
I am glad, too, that the opinion of the Committee on Women' s Rights has been incorporated into the report.
Child sex tourism does not take place only in Europe, but throughout the world.
Child sex tourism is a tragic and distressing fact of life and this problem has become worse and more serious in certain regions of the world over recent years.
Parliament' s approach to the fight against this evil must therefore go beyond the borders of Europe.
In addition to the situation in the Far East, there is also that on the German-Czech border, which is why this problem needs to be clarified in no uncertain terms during accession negotiations.
It is important to clarify the legal situation and to dispense with the notion of dual criminality.
The law of the offenders' country of origin must be binding for the purposes of criminal prosecution.
Offenders should not imagine themselves to be safe in some law-free zone.
It must be possible to punish offenders, even if abuse is not a punishable offence in the country in which it is committed.
This problem cannot be solved through national measures.
We need a common approach in the European Union and in the Member States, in cooperation with the third countries in question.
Children as persons with their own, inviolable rights deserve our special protection, irrespective of the country in which they live.
This protection must be guaranteed in both theory and practice.
Sufficient funds must be provided to support an effective, victim-orientated fight against this evil.
In all the Member States of the European Union, the necessary legislative measures must be taken and the laws harmonised in order to guarantee the protection of children.
Last but not least, protection of children as separate personalities with the right to freedom from physical and mental harm must be included in the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
