Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, we are, in fact, in a situation in which we are building up a European railway system, albeit somewhat late.
Mr Jarzembowski and I hold such similar views that I should like to begin where he left off.
In a few weeks' time, we shall propose to Parliament at second reading and by a large majority - there are still a few differences of opinion here and there - what framework market conditions and operating regulations are needed in order to create a European railway system.
All this, as the previous speaker has already said, will not produce a European railway system unless there is also a degree of interoperability on the technical and social side.
It is grotesque: every private company, even small private companies, think European nowadays.
It is only on the railways that we have not managed to achieve this and we are now endeavouring to bring about a European attitude.
The comment about industry is correct.
We always look spellbound at America, at the United States, where industry and, of course, the free market economy are also promoted by the state.
Except that, when it comes to American companies, the situation is quite different.
In Europe, uniting in a common European market is proving to be an arduous task.
How can we expect European products to be used throughout the world, when we are cannot even agree on certain technical conditions and interoperability in Europe?
In this sense I should like to offer the rapporteur, Mr Savary, my full and unequivocal support and congratulate him on his excellent report.
What we need is technical interoperability.
That has already been said.
Industry has its part to play here, but of course clients, i.e. the European construction companies, must also do what they can to force industry to cooperate.
This also applies, and here I disagree with a number of previous speakers, to social comparability and alignment.
Of course, that does not mean that everything will become identical, because we do not want a situation with one side more or less exploiting the other; we want a situation in which we look together to see how we can bring about a European railway system.
Safety is also, without doubt, an issue.
The huge advantage of the railway is that it is safe and environmentally-friendly.
Just as it is a pity that the transport Commissioner cannot be here, it is a good sign that the Commissioner for the environment is here, because, in the final analysis, traffic, and railway traffic in particular, is a means to an end and not an end in itself and it should help to improve our environmental situation.
Mr Savary has also highlighted a very important point; namely that we must ensure during the enlargement of the European Union that the European railway system does not stop at the current borders of the European Union but covers the whole of Europe so that it can help to improve the environment and increase traffic safety throughout Europe.
