Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, ladies and gentlemen, I say 'yes' to the directive and 'yes' to the rapporteur' s strategy, for it is thanks to that consistent approach that I too have withdrawn my amendment.
The electronic market is a prime market in terms of growth, employment and future prospects, and not just in Europe.
We must therefore exploit all its opportunities and it is important that this regulation on electronic commerce has removed the barriers created by divergent legislative provisions and the ensuing legal uncertainty.
The rapporteur analyses the common position in the spirit of constructive criticism.
Let me pick up on two points of detail that are very close to my heart and where I would have liked to see the common position worded more clearly.
First, there is the question of the sale of medicines and, secondly, the protection of books as a cultural asset in connection with the existing fixed book price agreements.
On the first point, let me say briefly that in my country, Austria, we have banned the sale of medicines by mail order.
So there is some concern that firms established in Member States where this is allowed could encourage Austrian patients to order and buy medicines through the Internet.
In view of the health risks alone, I once again ask for extra clarification in the common position, so as to ensure that advertising activities and agreements with a view to the mail order of medicines are excluded from the area coordinated by the directive.
My second point concerns cultural assets.
Article 1(6) is the only article in the directive that refers, and then only in very general terms, to the cultural area, to the protection and promotion of cultural diversity.
I think that is not good enough.
So I would ask for it to be made clear that the directive does not apply to the fixed book price schemes introduced via legislation or arrangement in some Member States.
Furthermore, operators established in Member States other than the countries concerned should not be allowed to undermine these schemes when selling to an end consumer.
As far as I am concerned, the question of e-commerce in medicines and the protection of cultural diversity will be an important issue in the review scheduled in three years' time, which I welcome.
I ask the Commission to devote special attention to these two points.
