Mr President, I am encouraged by what you have just said, Mr Fischler.
The disaster off the coast of Brittany is truly enormous in scale.
The accident involving the oil tanker Erika has had such a huge economic and ecological impact that this is the second time we have dealt with this issue in the space of a few weeks, and rightly so.
A whole branch of industry, fisheries and aquaculture and the jobs they generate, hangs in the balance.
We cannot, and must not, stand idly by in the face of this.
Fine speeches and bitter tears are not much use.
We could talk for two, eight, or sixteen hours, but it would not bring fish back to life or put food in a Breton fisherman' s stomach.
There is certainly more to solidarity than making speeches.
That is why our motion for a resolution can only be a first step, and deeds, i.e. measures, must then follow which will at last serve to ensure that never again will there be a disaster of this kind, particularly off the coast of Europe.
We demand recognition of the polluter pays principle in this motion, which has the overall support of the groups.
We also demand red tape-free aid for the fishermen and aquaculture operators whose livelihoods are under threat.
However, this must not become a competition-distorting, long-term subsidy.
We also demand improved safety conditions for sea traffic and we want there to be better monitoring overall.
As we have heard, the Commission is getting stuck in.
A meeting with representatives of industry is to make the Commission' s proposals known.
The need for more stringent Port State Control will not be the only subject of discussion on this occasion, as the pressing need to deploy double-hulled tankers in the future will also be on the agenda.
I welcome this with open arms.
My demands go further, however.
The Erika is the straw that broke the camel' s back.
In the interests of the safety and protection, through preventative measures, of European coastal areas, and of the continued existence of the fisheries sector as an established economic factor, we need a European environmental coastguard and a maritime data network affording effective cooperation between the Member States, which is what we were appealing for yesterday.
This is the challenge Europe faces.
Europe' s credibility is at stake.
We cannot afford to have another disaster where all we do is make a few speeches!
