Mr President, the statements by the President-in-Office of the Council go straight to the heart of the problem facing us here.
The Social Democrats are divided, I make no bones about the fact, as to how to deal with fingerprinting of under 18-year olds.
Some members are saying we should not fingerprint fourteen- to eighteen-year-olds.
I personally take a different view on this.
You cannot advocate reducing the voting age to sixteen and still say that an eighteen-year-old should not be fingerprinted.
It is incomprehensible.
It comes down to how this system is seen under the rule of law.
If you guarantee that the Council has no objection to leaving implementing powers definitively with the Commission and allowing us in Parliament to exercise a control function, at least in the area of Commission jurisdiction, then that is considerable progress.
However, the Council has not so far given us to understand this in so many words, which is why I listened to what you said with pleasure.
Because I should like to draw your attention to the following point: if we create systems at European level which can directly violate people' s basic freedoms - and the anthropometric treatment of a person, compulsory treatment of a person is a violation of his individual rights - if we create institutions at European level which have these rights then the Executive must be subject to parliamentary scrutiny and the people affected by the measures must have legal recourse, both of which are lacking in almost every system which we have created within the framework of internal security in the European Union.
There is a lack of parliamentary scrutiny and no precise guaranteed legal recourse.
It is there in principle, but it has never been accurately described.
The same applies to parliamentary scrutiny.
We therefore say that if implementing powers remain with the Commission, if the regulatory committee is set up under the chairmanship of the Commission, then we agree.
If not, then we must tell the Council that there is no question of the Council taking implementing powers away from the Commission, not if it expects the Community budget to finance the system.
Otherwise Parliament would have to reconsider the budget and the question of financing the system from the community budget.
And believe me, we shall do so.
