Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate Mr Karas on his excellent report, but at the same time to say that we are not at present satisfied with the European Commission' s information policy.
We wish to remind the House that the euro information programme is also, as defined in the budget, a joint European Commission and European Parliament programme.
During the last parliamentary term there was a committee led by Mr Anastassopoulos which laid down the essential features of information policy in this area.
It was very successful at that point.
We also managed at that time to secure a full and key role for Members of the European Parliament in this information campaign, via the political foundations.
This has not happened during this new parliamentary term.
This body, which consisted of the Commissioner responsible and the relevant committee chairs, has not yet been convened.
Some of the procedures dating from the last parliamentary term have still not been discharged to this day.
We therefore have to ask in the clearest possible terms what should happen next.
For this reason, my first request is that a meeting of this body should be called as quickly as possible.
That is my first point.
The second point that I would briefly like to touch upon relates to an observation regarding the substance of the information campaign.
If you compare prices in the Eleven, that is in Euroland, with prices in other countries which have remained outside the Eleven, including the United Kingdom but also Switzerland and Norway, where this is particularly apparent, you will see that price levels in Euroland, even in the 'rich' countries, are generally speaking lower than in the other countries.
This means that the European single currency is already leading to greater competition in this area, and that in turn this competition is leading to the public getting goods and services on more favourable terms.
A study should be carried out on this, something which is also called for in the Karas report.
