Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Patten, I should like to thank you for your statements, especially Commissioner Patten, whose analysis I fully share and I shall not, therefore, repeat any of his ideas.
I should just like to make three comments which Commissioner Patten will perhaps see as similar but which, for various reasons, a Member can formulate more openly.
First, I believe that we can welcome the agreement between Israel and the Palestinian authorities.
But we have enough agreements now: Oslo, Wye Plantation, Sharm el-Sheikh.
We have enough agreements; they just need to be implemented.
However, in this regard I share Mr Salafranca' s scepticism when he says that there has been bad news from Israel this week, namely that the Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum cannot be implemented within the set timeframe.
My second point concerns the resumption of negotiations between Syria and Israel.
I consider this to be very encouraging news.
But we have also learned this week that Mr Barak will not be travelling to Washington and that the negotiations cannot therefore be continued.
I should like to make it quite clear: if the Golan Heights are returned to Syria, the problem in this region will be solved.
On the question of the referendum which various Members have referred to: we must consider if a referendum always needs to be held in order to honour obligations under international law and under the law of nations.
In Germany, there would probably be dancing in the streets if we were to say that we were holding a referendum on payments to the European Union and we shall pay if the German people are prepared to pay.
That would be a similar situation.
My third and last point concerns the role of the European Union.
I should really like to stress the excellent role which Mr Moratinos' special mission has played in the region and the funding which we have provided there, Commissioner Patten.
You know that you will always have our support here in Parliament, and that includes your proposal, and we shall be behind you when the time comes to finance it.
But we must also play a political role and Mr Moratinos cannot play that role in this region on his own; the Presidency of the Council must take action, the EU High Representative for common foreign and security policy must travel to the region and we must do as the Russians did and invite the protagonists of the peace process ourselves.
Then we will have played the role which is commensurate with our participation and our contribution.
