Mr President, I am not about to start arguing the toss with Mr Swoboda over where the Balkans begin.
In fact, it was once said that the Balkans begin at the Rennweg in Vienna.
But leaving that aside, the fact remains that this Stability Pact is of course adversely affected by the heterogeneity of its States.
We have first and second wave candidate countries.
We have countries such as Croatia and Macedonia that are about to overtake candidate countries.
We have States such as Bosnia-Herzegovina and Albania in which the State is scarcely functioning, and then the two decisive challenges, namely Yugoslavia, or Serbia, where it is a question of doing everything we can to foster democratisation and develop a long-term strategy for the Europeanisation of Serbia.
Secondly, Kosovo, where we will never achieve success unless elected political structures come into being there, along with a long-term vision of what is to happen to this region, which will never again be a Serbian province.
We cannot afford to hang about over this issue any longer; otherwise all we will be doing is tinkering about at the edges, as it were.
But that is not the only factor adversely affecting the Stability Pact, it is also suffering from a lack of credibility on the part of the international organisations and also the European Union, which owing to a confusion of competences, wastage, and mismanagement, are displaying traits that would be dismissed as being typical of the Balkans, were it not for the fact that this is happening in our own organisations.
We are losing a great deal in the way of credit and respect in this region, and this respect and credibility are fundamentally even more important than the promises of funding that are made and then not kept.
I truly believe we must put this situation in order in the European Union, primarily by strengthening the Commission' s role in the matter.
Commissioner, I have a great deal of faith in your work, but I must say that we as a Parliament must also ensure that you are able to give this work more in-depth attention than you have been able to hitherto.
What we need here is cooperation between our two institutions, so as to strengthen the EU and its credibility.
