Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fellow members, this report deals with a very complex issue.
One of the proposed amendments relates to considerations which, basically, deal prosaically with a matter of general concern to the House - if the large majority in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is anything to go by -, namely the fact that the public seeking legal advice in the European Union is still not being provided with comprehensive legal texts as and when they are needed; and not just the public seeking legal advice, the specialist public or trained legal practitioners.
One proposed amendment therefore calls in particular for the Commission to promptly provide suitably worded texts reflecting the latest developments in the legal world.
What we are talking about here is, as it were, a ceterum censeo, which needs to be the subject of debate here in the House for all directives.
Secondly, it is an issue which needs to be taken out of brackets, as it were.
A derogation for Italian pharmacists has been extended although, contrary to the common position, the Committee on Legal Affairs proposes that a cut-off date be attached to the derogation.
Anyone who began studying before October 1990 will be protected under this directive but must expect to complete their studies within a reasonable period of time.
In addition to these general rules, we have also proposed amendments to the directives which apply to doctors.
Doctors are a sensitive issue, human health is a very sensitive issue.
If I have a car accident, I can quantify and repair the damage.
I know of no-one from my law practice who, having received compensation for physical injury, would not gladly give the money back in return for restored health, which is why this issue requires special attention.
The Committee on Legal Affairs therefore sets great store by the following conclusion: first, that specialists should also keep up with general practice while training as specialists.
Differential diagnostics continue to change, which is why specialist training must also include general practice.
Secondly: we are calling, by a large majority, for specialist training to be increased from at least two to at least three years in order to take account of a broad trend within the European Union.
It is time for improvements here.
Thirdly: the Committee on Legal Affairs is calling for greater focus on continuing training.
We know and admit that this subject was not quite so urgent at first reading but there are now problems here for procedural reasons.
An exception is made when Parliament is re-elected between the first and second readings.
That applies here, which is why the Committee on Legal Affairs has introduced the concept of continuing training as one of the mainstays of this House and as one of the mainstays of the European Union.
We believe that lifelong learning is not just the stuff of soap-box speeches; it should be standard and patients should be able to expect their doctors to complete further training, which is why Amendments Nos 1 to 11 are broadly supported by the committee and will surely be broadly supported by the House tomorrow.
I should like to address one more point.
Two other amendments have been proposed concerning Irish architects.
The PPE-DE group - my group - intends to withdraw its amendment here.
I would recommend that the House also reject the amendment along these lines proposed by the UEN.
This is a national problem and must be solved at national level; it cannot, in any case, be solved at European level.
If we introduce regulations here then others who are even less entitled to do so will surely table similar requests.
