Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE-DE Group was dismayed to hear of the British Government' s plans with regard to the cloning of human embryos.
Hitherto, all those in positions of responsibility within the European Union were agreed that the cloning of human beings should be rejected out of hand.
During the fifth research framework programme, the Council - inclusive of the British Government - voted unanimously in favour of a form of words that rules out cloning, as well as so-called therapeutic cloning.
Parliament and the Council voted in favour of a text for the Directive on the patenting of biotechnological discoveries that completely rules out cloning of human beings, because this type of technology offends common decency and is an affront to law and order.
Commissioner, over the past few days, a number of articles in the press, as well as your speech, have given rise to some confusion regarding the fifth research framework programme, and especially concerning the Patenting Directive.
The impression has been given that only reproductive cloning is banned.
This is completely wrong.
I was involved in the careful drafting of both texts, and both directives rule out therapeutic as well as reproductive cloning.
Take a close look at the documents, Commissioner, and clarify matters, or else you will have the European Parliament to deal with.
And I do not think that is something you would want.
Now this consensus between the States of the European Union and the institutions has been disrupted by the government of one Member State.
We as a Parliament must withstand this attempt to shatter taboos.
But it is not just a case of making our feelings known, we must also ensure that action be taken as a result.
Hence the PPE-DE Group has called for a strict ban on the cloning of human beings at all stages of their development to be incorporated into the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Finally, I urge the Commission to ensure that there is strict compliance with the fifth research framework programme' s call for no support to be provided for any form of human cloning.
This also means boycotting the cross-subsidisation provided by research institutes in Great Britain.
The best way to achieve this would be to ensure that those institutions involved in the cloning of human beings no longer receive any financial support whatsoever from the European Union.
