Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Martín, you have certainly described very clearly what your report is all about.
Thank you for that.
But we also all know only too well that not all projects are as successful as we would like them to be.
This makes it all the more important, in our view, for both the people concerned on the spot and local groups to be involved, as early as the preliminary planning stage, in decisions such as how projects are to be organised, so as to ensure that these projects - which of course we wish to fund - are sustainable from an ecological and social, but also cultural, point of view.
It is not always the case - and we are aware of this too - that the interests of local people are respected; instead they are often subordinated and sacrificed to the economic interests of particular groups, such as for example multinational logging companies.
There is a lot that I could say about Brazil in this context, about how interests of this kind are represented there, because one thing is clear: the issue of whether tropical forests can be used sustainably at all, without their being permanently damaged in the process, is still not satisfactorily settled.
It is precisely here that there should be no cut in the Commission and the Council's contributions, because that would almost certainly be counterproductive.
This is because if the forests continue to be damaged to the same extent as they have been up until now, the local people will be the first to suffer and then we will all suffer throughout the whole world, because dramatic changes in climate can of course already be identified.
It is also very important for us now for the projects to be able to continue to run without interruption.
The demands we are making of the Council are not after all demands which we have plucked out of thin air, and I believe that it ought to be possible through skilful negotiation to secure something here, because the conditions are not after all impossible to meet.
Otherwise we can only endorse Mr Fernández Martín's report; the comments made by Mrs Scheele and others are also a perfect reflection of our own thoughts.
Thank you very much for this generous gift to my colleagues.
