Mr President, not only is it shocking that events of the kind that happened in Dover should occur in the first place, what is all the more shocking is that we only become aware of such happenings at all when they are on a certain scale.
Tragic events of this kind happen to hundreds of people at borders, day after day.
What you do not see, however, is any action on our part.
We have been discussing the matter here for months and trying to outline a whole range of possibilities, but if you will forgive me for saying so, there is still no package of measures that will actually remedy the situation.
Indeed I am delighted whenever the Council Presidency comes up with fresh proposals, and a great many proposals have also been produced on this occasion which are to be welcomed.
However, it would be desirable if these proposals were to dovetail with each other.
There have been a whole host of individual measures where the second measure has often been put in place before the first, instead of the other way around.
What we need to do is to harmonise and coordinate these measures more effectively.
Hence my call for these measures to at last be put into effect.
I would like to briefly mention some very important points such as cooperation with the countries of origin, the implementation of the action plan, the need to at last put the agreements in place, criminal punishment for traffickers, i.e. the need to make EUROPOL stronger than it used to be, the need to draw up Community legislation governing immigration, and likewise asylum and the fight against abuse.
Permit me to ask one question in this connection: we always discuss EURODAC at the beginning of a Presidency and we always hear that EURODAC will soon become a reality.
We are now some years further down the line and there is still no sign of EURODAC.
I would be delighted if you could actually manage to get EURODAC up and running.
My question to you, Minister, is this: will you make it happen, and will you follow Parliament' s advice and leave the authority for implementation with the Commission, or are we to continue having discussions that head off in the wrong direction?
Permit me just to add a second question.
You have mentioned a seminar due to take place on 20 and 21 July, and this is to be welcomed with open arms.
Are the parliamentarians invited to this as well, following the commendable example set by Portugal, when we were able to attend these conferences with representatives?
Also, in view of Mr Jospin' s comments, permit me, as an Austrian, to ask whether Austrians will be invited to this conference.
