Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental rights, citizens, freedom and human rights have a long tradition in Europe.
Fundamental rights of the modern age have their origins in the Magna Carta Libertatum of 1215, the Petition of Rights of 1628, the Habeas Corpus Act of 1679, the Bill of Rights of 1689 and, lastly, the Declaration of the Rights of Man and Citizen during the French Revolution.
The fact that fundamental rights have come to be guaranteed under constitutional law over the past 200 years is largely down to the impact these universal documents of fundamental rights have had.
It is now the task of twenty-first century Europe to combine the existing fundamental rights in the Member States and those aspects that apply to Europe.
The fundamental rights such as freedom of worship, freedom to meet and form associations, for example, are sacrosanct and inalienable rights to freedom from state intervention.
Applied to Europe this means that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights must protect the citizens of the European Union against the interference and intervention of European institutions in the fundamental rights of the citizens.
Furthermore, our group hopes that a written European catalogue of fundamental rights will put European integration on a firmer legal-ethical footing and help to create greater transparency and clarity for the citizens.
Our group deems it particularly important that the European Charter should neither replace nor infringe Member States' own provisions on fundamental rights.
There has been heated discussion over the call for the European Union to sign up to the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms drawn up by the Council of Europe in 1950.
The Council of Europe' s Convention is now 50 years old.
Our group opposes the Union' s signing up to the Convention, not just because the existing European treaties do not permit this but, in particular, because we need our own catalogue of fundamental rights for the European Union, that is, one that reflects the convictions and beliefs we hold today.
At the same time, however, this means that we must confine ourselves to the traditional fundamental rights and avoid extending the scope to social and economic fundamental rights, which are not legally enforceable at European level.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for the comprehensive work they have done, and hope that the deliberations of the European Parliament find their way into the Convention' s discussions on the elaboration of fundamental rights.
