Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Hatzidakis, on his very sound report.
The report is as good and judicious as Mr Hatzidakis is in his chairmanship of the committee, for which he certainly deserves recognition and thanks.
Let me also take this opportunity to support him when he says that the financial resources for developing the trans-European networks are no longer adequate.
He proposes increasing the budget funding.
According to Commissioner Schreyer today, that will not be very easy to achieve.
That is why Mr Hatzidakis quite rightly proposed in committee that funding should also be procured from private or other semi-public institutions.
The previous Commissioner, Mr Kinnock, put forward several ideas on the subject on the basis of the activities of a working party and I hope Mrs Schreyer will be able to develop and take up some of these ideas, for without an incentive system of extra funding from the private sector too, we will not succeed in achieving what Mr Hatzidakis, the committee and, I hope, Parliament too, will propose tomorrow.
It is quite clear that in view of the additional tasks that we are also confronted with in transport, when we think of Eastern Europe and the candidate countries, it will not be possible to achieve what Mr Ebner has just called for, namely redeployment from road to rail, especially in bottleneck areas.
That is not an anti-roads policy, because it will, of course, free up the roads for the kind of transport best suited to them.
That is why we need this redeployment.
Some successes have been achieved, especially in relation to the agreement with Switzerland; in other areas, however, we have been less successful.
Let me also say a few words on the Brenner base-level tunnel.
The European Commission has already financed the feasibility study, in fact financed it more heavily than other projects.
Studies alone, however, are not enough.
That is why we do not yet have any additional mode of transport, why no fewer cars are being driven and why we are not seeing a switch to rail transport.
That is why we must tackle the projects and why we need investment.
We also tabled a motion to this effect on account of our common concern in committee.
The three governments concerned and the Commission really must act now, begin with the spadework and start building, while, of course, at the same time guaranteeing the necessary funding.
I believe the Brenner base-level project is one of the most important European projects that need tackling, with a view to making north-south traffic environment-friendly and efficient.
If we combine that with the additional measures concerning the candidate countries, then, in five to ten years' time, we could see an efficient transport system in Europe, and that is something we urgently need!
