Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is almost midnight already, and I do not wish to extend this sitting unnecessarily.
I agree with what Mrs Roure and Mr Perry have said and, of course, with the content of Mrs Sanders- Ten Holte's report.
I should like to confine myself to a couple of points, and I shall begin by referring back to Feira and Lisbon.
This report is really a follow-up to the thoughts of the European Council meetings in Lisbon and Feira.
When we contemplate the information society and globalisation, when we consider the speed at which technology is changing our society, it becomes obvious that we must guarantee a school education that enables young people to stay abreast of these developments.
We must create the basis for the essential establishment of lifelong learning.
For that reason, I approve of the measures that are proposed here.
They will probably help us to deal more effectively with this challenge.
Let me just come back to a point that I raised myself in an amendment.
It must be possible to work with the existing resources, with the available networks and databases.
There is no need for us to keep reinventing the wheel.
We should use what we have, comparing the knowledge we each possess and then operating on the basis of that knowledge.
I shall move on now to a technical point.
In recent days we have heard that Mrs Sanders has been trying to make the first reading suffice.
But of course there is a price to pay for that.
Whoever wants to shorten the legislative process to one reading by making use of the scope for interinstitutional agreements has to conclude a deal.
This deal does not involve a decree from the gentlemen of the Committee of Permanent Representatives, who have no say; they must simply declare their acceptance of the sound parliamentary proposals.
They have not made such a declaration; they did promise us something, but we set no store by promises.
We shall vote on our report tomorrow.
Thereafter, if the gentlemen of Coreper feel able to accept our amendments, we are prepared to expedite the matter very swiftly in the autumn - there is no rush.
We should not buy a pig in a poke; we should vote on our report tomorrow and give these gentlemen the opportunity to think again.
