Madam President, as draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Budgetary Control, I would like to highlight two points that we included in the report.
But firstly I would like to thank both rapporteurs for the enormous amount of work they have done.
I would also like to thank Commissioner Barnier for his open-mindedness, and I would like to thank Mr Vitorino for making a particular point that I would now like to address myself.
My first point concerns the discharge, which is very topical at the moment.
The EU Treaty states quite clearly that the European Parliament grants the Commission discharge to implement the budget.
In practice, however, this act on our part is twofold, the first stage being to undertake a political assessment under the discharge procedure, and the second being to close the budgetary accounts.
Now the first stage, that of the political evaluation, can have mixed results.
There is assent, there is refusal, and matters are sometimes deferred.
This does not necessarily affect the budgetary accounts, the second stage that is, for they can be closed even if the first stage met with refusal.
This has the advantage that a balance from the budgetary accounts can then be carried forward to the following year.
This should be enshrined in the Treaty, for it is already included in our Rules of Procedure and is, as I said, established practice.
In addition, we would like to receive information directly from the Member States, so as to improve the way in which we conduct our assessment of budgetary management.
My second point relates to the creation of a European Public Prosecutor' s Office.
For years we have endeavoured to protect the financial interests of the Community more effectively.
This now also needs to be done under criminal law, at European level, in very open and clear cooperation with the Member States.
In other words, there is not enough police and judicial cooperation between the Member States in the face of increasing cross-border crime that is harmful to the EU budget.
That is why we need coordination at European level, without prejudicing the right of national courts to administer justice.
I am most grateful that some Member States, but particularly the Commission, have been so willing to take up this theme.
