Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, a common foreign, security and defence policy has recently developed in the European Union which would probably have been unthinkable a few years ago.
It has come about because two main groups of members in the European Union have shifted their position: those who believed that NATO alone was responsible for security and defence, and those who believed that security and defence were not a Community affair and should be dealt with by individual states either neutrally or within a pact.
I think that what is happening today is a positive sign of community and solidarity.
I also think that, in the final analysis, Article 5, which has been quoted several times today, should represent the common basis for all members of the European Union, even if this can only be achieved gradually.
Kosovo has been mentioned several times today.
I think that too one-sided a view is sometimes taken of the lessons to come out of Kosovo and the Balkans.
In fact, four issues are at stake.
First, prevention, of which there was practically none whatsoever in the case of Kosovo.
Secondly, deterrence, of which there was certainly too little in the case of Kosovo, because no common will was visible.
Thirdly, the facility for rapid, targeted intervention.
This functioned perhaps to a certain extent, although the fight about what constitutes the optimum form of intervention blocked a great deal.
And fourthly, the restoration and stabilisation of peace, including after military intervention.
Developments over the past few days show that it is not as easy as you might think.
I am particularly thankful that the question of the police and security forces in Kosovo has been raised several times today, because it is essential to establish security by strengthening the presence of police troops.
There is also the question of developing a system of regional responsibility in Europe which does not fly in the face of the United Nations system, as has been maintained time and again, but which, on the contrary, can be incorporated into the United Nations system and into the ideas of the United Nations.
Finally, Commissioner Patten has said that we do not necessarily need institutional revolution, perhaps just reforms.
But we should try for institutional revolution.
As far as the institutions to be set up in the near future referred to today are concerned, I am afraid that we will paint ourselves into a corner.
We should not allow too many institutions to exist and the integration of the WEU and the EU forms part of this philosophy.
