Mr President, I strongly support Mrs Schierhuber' s report on food aid.
Being myself a producer of food under the provisions of the Berlin decisions, which have already been widely discussed in public, I am aware how insane and inconsistent it is to use various methods to cut production in the EU while there is hunger in the world.
Nowhere is it written that sections of the world population that live in an environment that has been destroyed by natural disasters or wars must not be allowed to eat.
One euro a day is enough for survival and offers a chance for the future.
That is feasible, in any case.
In this regard, the European Union, the Member States, politicians, industry and science must take responsibility and break down the wall between prosperity and hunger once and for all.
How will future generations judge us, I ask myself?
By the flood of megamergers that lead to ever larger and more uncontrollable giant undertakings, or by whether we manage to adopt targeted measures in the next ten years to combat poverty by cancelling the debts of developing countries, as an initial but necessary step?
The report rightly refers to a whole range of guidelines on fighting poverty.
For reasons of time I cannot go into them in detail.
But the careful observer will notice that there are different weightings at work here.
They are reflected in phrases such as "priority to the least developed countries" when allocating food aid, or "alleviation of poverty and hunger of the most vulnerable groups" .
I am glad I am not one of those who have to distinguish on a daily basis between "a bit hungry" or "starving" , as it is currently presented in the media, while regrettably little is being done.
The main part of the report correctly makes reference to the fact that its aim, ultimately, should be to make food aid unnecessary.
But we cannot do that unless the politicians agree that hunger is not a political weapon and unless the responsible leaders in every area of society all realise that we only have the world on lease from our children.
We hold the goods of this earth on trust for our descendants.
If we take that approach, then I am convinced we really can combat poverty.
