Mr President, Commissioner Verheugen said this afternoon that there would be no social or environmental dumping as a result of enlargement.
I believe this is an important goal and all those involved must do their bit to ensure that we achieve this goal.
The points raised by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy in the Brok report are the steps we need to take to this end, and it is essential that we take them if we are to counteract any slowing of the pace on the European environmental policy front.
My group therefore supports the proposal to limit the transitional periods in the environmental sphere to a maximum of five years.
Our political demand is for the problem areas of water, air and waste to be made a priority.
If transitional periods are to be granted, then it would be both necessary and helpful to include realistic interim goals in the accession treaty, and to regard failure to attain these interim goals as a violation of the treaty.
Parliament must be given the information it needs to be able to assess the situation in the candidate countries.
Annual reports from the Commission allow us to follow the implementation process.
The issue of nuclear safety is one of the major challenges facing the enlargement process.
The efforts that have already been made in this sphere demonstrate that this is another area where the enlargement process represents a golden opportunity to achieve greater security in the candidate countries, and indeed in the whole of Europe.
This translates into greater security for the people in the candidate countries and greater security for all the people of Europe.
Nuclear power stations of first generation Soviet construction are a particular danger as far as Europe is concerned.
We call upon the candidate countries to shut down those of their nuclear power stations that they cannot refit, by the date of accession at the very latest.
I have three particular nuclear power stations in mind, and they are Bohunice, Ignalina and Kosloduj.
