Mr President, Commissioner, our children access and use televised, printed and new media on a daily basis and as a matter of course.
Information from all over the world and from every sphere of knowledge is delivered to the home in record time and our children can communicate all around the world on an everyday basis.
At the same time, a huge selection of different entertainment programmes is available to them, usually without any controls.
Aside from all the positive aspects, we must not disregard the negative side-effects of this ease of access.
Children are being faced day by day with a growing wave of media brutality and violence, which is simply too much for them, especially because no limits are imposed on these offerings.
So all those concerned, starting with the children, via the parents, the teachers, the countries, the European Union and, beyond them, the suppliers and producers must come to grips with this question and learn how to deal with these offerings and their effects.
The public must be made more aware of the effects of this constantly growing wave of violence and support measures must be taken.
Parents are in particular need of help here, and in the following form: parameters to protect minors in the media context throughout the European Union, the introduction of filter systems available at low cost, legislation to protect minors and assumption of responsibility by the media, enterprises and private and public-sector providers.
These measures must not be restricted to television but must apply to all accessible media.
The candidate countries must of course also be integrated in this process even at this stage.
Since the media market is a matter of supply and demand, i.e., a question of hard business, the providers pay no attention to the consequences of various offerings.
All that counts is the ratings.
So we must introduce protective mechanisms that are impossible, or at least not easy, to circumvent.
Furthermore, I believe programmes that help reduce and overcome violence and aggression should also be on offer.
No doubt they could not be marketed so spectacularly and would therefore produce lower ratings, but in return they could make a considerable contribution to damage limitation and to combating the adverse effects.
We are responsible for ensuring that our young people can shape a future society in which violence and aggression are not presented as hip or cool or as examples to be copied but as deeply reprehensible.
We have to match up to that responsibility by adopting the appropriate directives and providing the necessary support.
