Mr President, I have no intention of digging over old ground a month before the next progress reports are due to be published.
As shadow rapporteur for Lithuania, on behalf of my group, I would, however, like to congratulate Mrs Hoff on her report.
Above all though, I would like to bring various expectations and reservations that I have, to the attention of the Council, which, I am sorry to say, is largely absent.
Unfortunately, it seems to me, that for all the fine words and industrious opening and closing of chapters, the Council is not applying the political pressure needed to drive this enlargement process forward.
There is a risk that the window of opportunity referred to by Commissioner Verheugen will simply be allowed to slam shut, because the first loyalty of the protagonists in the Council, in particular the Heads of Government, is to their national agendas, and sadly they do not have the ambition to raise their own profile for the sake of the whole of Europe.
Since Helmut Kohl, Europe' s citizen of honour, stepped down from the European stage, Jean-Claude Junker is the only other Head of Government I can think of off the top of my head, for whom the European project is a matter truly dear to their heart.
Nonetheless, I call upon the Council as a whole to demonstrate the political leadership we need to do justice to the size of task.
Put aside any thoughts of replacing the principle of 'Each according to his/her merits' with that of 'Each according to his/her merits, but not until my elections are over' .
This applies both to the French Presidency and to the German Bundestag elections.
There is no reason to delay the conclusion of negotiations until after these elections.
Those who subordinate historic decisions to petty national, or even party political considerations, will not earn their place in the history books.
I urge you to set a deadline in Nice by which you intend to conclude negotiations with those candidate countries - naming no names - that have made the most progress.
Let us all stop asking them for things that do not fall within the scope of the acquis communautaire.
Whilst there are certain honourable members here who should heed this, the message is intended primarily for the ears of the national Council delegations attending the negotiations.
The way individual governments allow particular lobbyists to manipulate and take advantage of them to a certain extent, in the course of negotiations, is sometimes unworthy of them.
Again I call upon the Council to show political leadership and give the candidate countries a specific deadline in Nice, which they can work towards.
Incidentally, the French farmers and all their counterparts will still be there, before and after every election!
