Mr President, like Mrs Malmström, I too would like to emphasise that transparency is the essential precondition for democratic control and participation of citizens in the decision-making process.
Transparent procedures enable the administration to enjoy greater legitimacy and to be more effective and closer to the citizen.
They also provide effective protection against the arbitrary use of and the abuse of power and against corruption.
These are the considerations that led the Committee on Budgetary Control to deliver an opinion under this procedure.
We are glad that the report repeats a crucial principle that we in the Committee on Budgetary Control also vehemently support.
It is this: there can only be exceptions to the requirement of transparency in exceptional cases.
That is why we cannot accept the long list of exceptions set out by the Commission.
Here we are sending out the right signal to the citizens by radically cutting the list of these exceptions in our Amendment No 30, but, personally speaking, I find it most regrettable that we have only managed to simplify and clarify matters on this particular issue, however important it is, and not in the regulation as a whole.
Unfortunately, the wish to anticipate any eventualities and to produce a regulation that is as complete and comprehensive as possible seems to have prevailed.
Instead of a shorter text, we are therefore ending up with a longer one.
I fear that will make it less legible or user-friendly.
So it will become even more important for the citizen not to be left on his own with this regulation, but that each institution should establish contact points to which applicants can turn and where they can obtain practical assistance in their search for documents.
If we really want to make it easier for the citizens to exercise their rights in practice, we will need specially trained staff in these contact points, who can, so to speak, take the citizen who is seeking information by the hand and guide him through the complex labyrinth of the institutions.
The same applies to the use of languages.
