Mr President, the Commission's Green Paper on future noise-abatement policy, which appeared in 1996, stated that 20% of the population of Western Europe, in other words almost 80 million people, were exposed to noise levels that the experts deemed to be intolerable.
The rapporteur has now quoted far higher percentages, but the fact is that ambient noise is a serious and a major environmental problem.
That is why the reduction and prevention of ambient noise will feature prominently in future European environment policies.
We welcome the proposal from the Commission, but it does not go far enough for us.
The harmonisation of noise-measurement procedures and the production of action plans by the Member States are good things but are not enough to satisfy us.
That is why we are calling for a framework directive as a basis for Community action to assess and combat ambient noise.
We call on the Commission to present proposals for daughter directives and to do so within 18 months of the entry into force of the framework directive.
These daughter directives would set quality standards for all sources of noise, and I am pleased that the line taken by our group was adopted by a large majority of the committee and hope that the amendments tabled by Bernd Lange on that basis will also secure the necessary majority in tomorrow's vote.
My group, however, does not support the rapporteur's intention to use the directive to introduce limit values for ambient noise in the vicinity of airports.
We have discussed the relevant amendments thoroughly in committee, but we believe that our line of approach, whereby quality standards for all specific sources of noise are to be the subject of daughter directives, is the more logical and consistent strategy.
Another important proposal we have made, which will be of particular significance in the context of aviation noise, is that there should be an additional noise indicator over and above those that the rapporteur has enumerated.
I therefore ask for your support for the amendment on the introduction of a noise indicator which defines a maximum level in addition to those which define mean levels.
