Mr President, Commissioner, as we now all know, the state of fish stocks is a cause for concern throughout the world.
As we have just heard, part of the problem is extensive environmental pollution, such as the recent tanker accidents and, let us face it, there is no shortage of tanker accidents nowadays.
However, the main reason is overexploitation of fish stocks due to the huge catching capacity of the fishing fleets.
For the sake of the environment, and fishermen, we must aim to achieve sustainable management of fish resources.
However, if we are to achieve this objective, the Community still has a few important steps to take.
And time is running out.
In its communication to the Council and Parliament, the Commission criticises the lack of uniform regulations governing fisheries within and beyond exclusive economic zones.
The law of the survival of the fittest still applies on the high seas.
This law is based on the overriding principle of the freedom of the high seas.
The sea knows no borders.
There is hardly a fish in it which is permanently domiciled.
I am referring here to all migratory fish stocks.
Any over-fishing has a domino effect, and careful handling of fish resources is a pointless exercise if everyone else is ruthlessly pursuing their own economic interests and paying no heed whatsoever to the need to protect stocks.
The EU has the fourth largest fishing capacity in the world.
However, its importance does not give it the right to take measures at its own convenience and any measures taken must be in keeping with its international obligations.
It is because of this global perspective that international collaboration is needed and, to be sure, the most important committees - and this brings us back to the basis for collaboration - are made up mainly of regional fisheries organisations.
It is not just since the 1995 New York Agreement that their importance has been recognised; basically they are the best way of fostering responsible fishing.
They alone are able to implement supra-regional regulations in keeping with local conditions.
They carry out statistical programmes and are responsible for inspections and the monitoring system.
They are the most efficient way of ensuring that rules are not ignored.
Given the importance of regional fisheries organisations to sustainable fishing, it is imperative that the EU be granted a seat in every regional fisheries organisation.
That way we can be sure that we will all end up pulling in the same direction.
