Commissioner Liikanen, by the year 2003 we shall probably have 1.7 million job vacancies in the information society in Europe which cannot be filled, and I believe that this in itself makes it essential that we devote the utmost attention to the question of digital content.
We shall be investing many millions of euros in the Net infrastructure; by the year 2003 it is expected that there will be more than a billion mobile phones in the world, and 85% of the European population will be using the Internet.
The sums that will be invested here naturally bear no relation to the total investment in software, in digital content.
So there is a huge gap that we must close as soon as possible, because we shall not only create jobs by installing transmitters, by the way we link them together and by the way we develop software; we shall also have to become prolific producers of digital content.
What do we have to do to encourage such production?
First of all - and my thanks are due to Mr Seppänen for this - we took the same view in the Committee on Budgets as has been expressed here and now in the chamber and by the Committee on Industry External Trade, Research and Energy, namely that we need a massive injection of new funding for digital content.
The PPE-DE Group will endorse Mrs Gill's suggestions, for which I thank her, and we too shall vote for an increased contribution, and I hope that our agreement with the Liberals and the other groups will be honoured and that we shall make a really massive effort to ensure that these budgetary priorities actually receive the volume of additional funding that we have proposed.
The second point, which seems just as crucial to me, is that we must think about small and medium-sized enterprises, about business start-ups.
I believe that many young university graduates and well-qualified young people from schools, colleges and companies are well able to start up new businesses in the domain of digital content and that this domain offers us new opportunities, including opportunities for cross-border cooperation with the countries applying for EU membership, because in countries where there are already numerous experts, training standards are quite high.
We should actively seek such cooperation and develop joint strategies with the applicant countries.
We also face a huge problem in connection with the conversion of analogue content into digital content.
We must lend unstinting support to the transfer from analogue to digital.
It is imperative that we offer our assistance here as a matter of urgency; we must develop career profiles, so that the education system can produce suitably qualified people, we must press ahead with the development of 'learning entertainment', and in the field of health care, we must try to offer structures that will guarantee us good health into our old age.
