Mr President, Commissioner, greater generosity of cover for individuals and rising costs in the Member States' health sector are creating two requirements.
First, the need for individuals to pay more from their own pockets towards statutory schemes or through private supplementary health insurance, and secondly greater coordination of such private health insurance in the European Union.
My sincere congratulations go to the rapporteur, Michel Rocard.
His diagnosis is first-rate, but there are a couple of question marks hanging over the treatment he prescribes.
I need to distinguish here between his practical requests and the key points of the approach he suggests to solve the problems here.
These are based on important principles, namely solidarity, subsidiarity and minimum standards, and we fully accept those.
As Mr Pronk indicated, we oppose the idea of imposing a directive immediately.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs' new proposal is correct, suggesting as it does that there should first be a review of the situation in the form of a Green Paper and that only then should decisions be made about whether a directive or recommendation is needed.
As regards the heterogeneous nature of the systems already in existence, there are Member States in which individuals have to find a substantial proportion themselves, for example 40% of the cost of outpatient treatment.
In these cases supplementary schemes are more significant than in Germany, for example, where 90% of the population are covered by statutory health insurance which up to now has been obliged to guarantee necessary medical treatment for all.
We in Europe should be pointing the way forward without delay, with a socially acceptable level of self-provision combined with the maintenance of existing standards, if necessary by means of permanent supplementary health insurance.
But people will need time to build up a suitable level of provision.
That is the alternative to the manipulation and trickery of insurance systems that comes with statutory schemes.
