Mr President, I would like to make another comment about Poland.
The Polish people believe that the country will be ready for accession with effect from 31 December 2002, and Poland has certainly made great strides since the accession negotiations started in March 1998.
There are already a number of progress reports available to us, and Parliament, which plays an important part in this process, has repeatedly made its feelings known on the subject.
Parliament supports the Commission' s strategy, according to which, each candidate state should be dealt with and assessed on the basis of its own progress and merits.
However, there are also problems requiring a cross-border solution.
In Mr Gawronski' s report, the Commission is urged, by the rapporteur among others, to examine measures for furthering development and for strengthening the synergy between Poland, Lithuania and the Russian region of Kaliningrad.
I feel it is entirely reasonable to ask this of the Commission, and that the Commission' s response should be to put forward a proposal.
I have already made this point once this afternoon, on another occasion.
All in all, when it comes to the question of how positive people are about the enlargement process, it is worth pointing out that opinion polls in several candidate states show that enthusiasm for accession to the EU is on the wane.
Not in all countries but in several.
That comes as no surprise, because a whole decade has passed since the historic turning point of 1989/1990, and there is still no comprehensive information and communication strategy for the people.
Mr Verheugen said the same this afternoon.
Now, all hopes and expectations are pinned on France.
Above all, the Nice Summit must clarify whether, and how, the EU, for its part, can get itself completely ready for enlargement in good time.
When the current Intergovernmental Conference finishes, institutional reform should create the necessary institutional conditions for an enlarged EU, i.e. for a Union comprising 25 Member States or more.
It is absolutely essential for an enlarged European Union to be able to function effectively and have the capacity to act.
Not only does the success of the French Presidency depend on it, the progress of the entire enlargement process is at stake for all concerned, including Poland.
