Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is certainly to be welcomed that account was taken in Biarritz of the need for coordination in the sphere of energy policy, which is of such crucial importance to citizens, the economy, growth and prosperity.
There is really no point in Member States going it alone in this respect; the fact that the Community is totally dependent on energy says it all.
The package of measures proposed by the Commission with a view to increasing energy efficiency and saving energy, is therefore constructive, and likewise the investigations into cartel problems with the oil companies.
It is not just the cartel of oil-producing countries we should be concentrating on though, but also that of the oil companies.
We wish the French Council Presidency every success at the negotiations in Riyadh, on which occasion, as I see it, these States would do well to ensure that oil prices do not rocket any higher, if only for reasons of self-interest.
Setbacks in economic growth within the European Union have repercussions for the global economy.
We should also take a look at our own situation, however.
It is important to take a step forward on the European energy taxation front, such progress having been blocked hitherto by the unanimity principle.
With that in mind, Parliament is expecting the Nice Summit to take a step in the direction of qualified majority voting in those areas where taxation policy is disrupting the proper functioning of the internal market.
Biarritz did not manage to dispel all the storm clouds attending our mission to promote the democratisation of the European Union.
The Council Presidency wants to abolish the cooperation procedure and replace it with the consultation procedure.
This procedure is unacceptable from a democratic and integrationist perspective.
Nor is it to be tolerated with regard to Economic and Monetary Union; on the contrary!
This is precisely where we must advance the cause of the codecision procedure.
If the project is not yet viable, then we urge the French Council Presidency to seek progressive institutional reforms and measures which will enable Parliament to participate.
At the very least, it must be possible to agree on the detail of a common position on these matters in Nice.
But we say 'no' to replacing the cooperation procedure with the consultation procedure.
That would be a retrograde step.
That is why action is called for!
