Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
We are delighted to hear that the people of Yugoslavia, mainly in Belgrade but also in other towns, have known how to take their fate into their own hands and have done so.
However, our delight is tainted with fear that there may be bloodshed, that not everyone wants to and can accept the voice, power and strength of the people.
Everything must therefore be done to prevent bloodshed, because a civil war in Yugoslavia or Serbia would be a veritable disaster.
Mr Dupuis, you have abused this truly historic moment here in order to engage in political demagogy.
I have only one thing to say to you: my group and I are unequivocally in favour of bringing Milosevic to justice before the court in the Hague.
That has always been our objective; but we have a still higher objective, which is to avoid bloodshed and we shall do everything we can so that bloodshed is avoided.
The Commission and the Council will do their part and that is what is currently at the top of the agenda in Yugoslavia and that is what we have been interested in all along.
We shall not sacrifice the Serbian people to our noble and moral objectives, because that would mean that perhaps thousands of people in Serbia and Yugoslavia might die for them.
Secondly, we are in a very delicate position and, therefore, we too trust that there will be fast changes in Yugoslavia and Serbia, because the situation is not easy in either Montenegro or Kosovo.
Here, too, I have one thing to say: we have supported the efforts with which the people have defended themselves against the brutal force emanating from Milosevic in both Kosovo and Montenegro, but under no circumstances do we support the concept of ethnically clean states.
Kosovo must be independent come what may and Montenegro must be independent come what may, just to ensure that Serbia is weakened.
Our objective is still - and I admit it - for there to be a new Yugoslavia, a Yugoslavia with an independent state of Kosovo and an independent state of Montenegro; it is not for there to be new divisions, renewed conflict, renewed clashes or renewed force, that is not our objective; on the contrary, a new Yugoslavia needs to emerge, a democratic Yugoslavia, where people stay willingly, not under duress, not under brutality, but because they are convinced that a federation can emerge which has a democratic future, a democratic future under different leaders and from which Milosevic can be removed - if possible - by bringing him before the court in the Hague, because we want justice, but we want justice with peace.
