Mr President, we all know, to borrow a phrase from Mr Brok' s report, that accession will mean a major shock to economic, social, political and cultural development in the countries in question and just how deeply that shock will reverberate.
I would gladly discuss the specifics of the Council' s enlargement policy but that would presuppose that there is an openly and clearly-defined policy and if reference was made today to the huge significance of Gorbachev' s glasnost for subsequent German reunification, then we too should demand that glasnost be practised in the Council and in connection with enlargement eastwards.
I am not surprised, under present circumstances, that enlargement has hardly penetrated the consciousness of our citizens or that it is increasingly accompanied by worry and suspicion, whereas today' s debate and all thirteen reports demonstrate the common commitment of large sections of the European Parliament to enlargement to the east and to enlargement configured in a responsible, forward-looking manner.
As far as I am concerned, three criteria are more important in relation to all the problems than the not insignificant criticism which I have on individual points.
First, the democratic wish of the countries and people in question must be respected after their accession to the EU.
It exists so far, but will possibly be jeopardised by a bureaucratic lack of transparency and the obvious, but not public resistance of certain governments.
It is therefore urgent and imperative not to allow institutional reform of the EU or enlargement to be postponed.
I also call for individual countries to be given possible target dates.
Secondly, I am one of those who are disquieted by current neo-liberal trends in the EU.
The various reports reflect this mainstream attitude.
Nonetheless, the truly historic opportunity of enlargement must be defended for the sake of stability and security and the chance to develop cultural diversity and configure a new large economic area in Europe.
Thirdly, acceptance of enlargement and its positive prospects for the individual countries and for the EU as a whole basically depend - and Denmark demonstrated this - on dismantling the social and democratic deficits of European policy.
We cannot therefore just make demands on the candidate countries.
Enlargement is basically a challenge for the EU itself to reform and an opportunity to steer the social, employment policy and democratic aspects of European integration as a whole.
Provided that the reports, especially Mr Brok' s overall report are not spoilt on these points during tomorrow' s vote, I shall vote in favour of them all.
