Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a surfeit of scandals has shaken public and consumer confidence.
In the interests of farmers and consumers, we need clear and transparent rules for animal feed too, but it should be said that farmers are always the first to suffer when abuses occur.
As far as the directive on undesirable products and substances in animal nutrition is concerned, let me say from the outset that we need a more workable solution here which strikes a fair balance between the interests of producers and those of consumers.
We must create a realistic statutory framework.
Contaminants which affect human and animal health are unacceptable.
You know I come from a Member State where very high and strict standards are imposed, which I fully support, and those standards have certainly proved their worth.
As far as checks on feedingstuffs are concerned, I should like to state that the problem is not so much the lack of a European legal framework as the failure of the individual Member States to transpose the existing provisions.
I cannot but warmly welcome the pressure for the creation of a European information system for food crises, the standardised transmission of information on the monitoring and safety of animal feed and the dissemination of information on cases of contamination and of damage to public health and the environment.
I take a more critical view, however, of the escape clause which would give the Commission the scope to take measures of its own without consulting the Member States.
Lastly, I should like to say a word or two on the conflict of competence between the Agriculture Committee and the Environment Committee.
I believe the specialised knowledge and the powers of judgement of the members of the Agriculture Committee on farming matters, and hence on animal nutrition too, are beyond question and that the Agriculture Committee is therefore the body which is best qualified to arrive at a practical and practicable solution that the farmers in question will apply and which consumers will understand.
For that reason, subjects such as animal feed really ought to be dealt with under the direction of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
What we feed our livestock is just as important to us farmers as it is to the consumers who subsequently buy our meat.
