Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur, Mr Bowis has produced an excellent report, and in many areas I would like to reinforce what he has said.
Establishing an efficient and independent European Food Safety Agency is very much to be welcomed, not least because of the various food scandals to date.
Food safety is a fundamental requirement for consumers, because they want to eat healthily, and we have to ensure that this is possible.
The Agency's central tasks will therefore be risk assessment and risk communication, an early warning system with the assistance of the five food committees all working together, excellent public relations work with consumers on food and food safety issues, and optimum networking with scientific institutions and control agencies in the Member States, so as to guarantee controls on the ground from producer to consumer.
In order to rebuild and strengthen consumer confidence, food safety and regulations need to be taken into account in legislation governing fertilisers, plant health products, medicines, the environment and waste.
Reliable risk assessment requires comprehensive analyses and reference measurements.
To make scientific results comparable across Europe, the measurement techniques applied need to be standardised and harmonised.
An appropriate infrastructure is required for testing food and in particular toxic substances in animal feed.
The Joint Research Centre's Health and Consumer Protection Institute is currently also carrying out pan-European quality and safety checks on food, and is amongst other things testing food for contamination and carrying out reference measurements for agricultural products and foodstuffs.
Substantial financial means are needed for all these measures.
It is therefore advisable also to involve and take advantage of the European Union's existing institutions, and if appropriate extend them.
The funding necessary for this needs to be made available by 2002.
I have tabled an amendment on this subject, and I hope you will support it.
