Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the previous speakers have already said, we are entering new territory with the Regulation on unbundled access to the local loop.
The accelerated procedure provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam is being used for the first time, that is, there is no second reading.
The aim of this is to approve the Regulation on unbundled access quickly, so that local telecommunications markets can be opened up to competition by the end of the year.
Our initial experience with this procedure suggests that it is only suitable in very exceptional cases, but that it is possible with important subjects like unbundled access to take legislative decisions with all due speed here in this House.
I am of course particularly pleased about this.
Without Nicholas Clegg and all his commitment it would not have been possible to consider the regulation so swiftly in committee and here in the plenary and, I hope, to approve it tomorrow.
He has been able to reconcile varying positions and to present Parliament's views to the Council.
My dear Nick, I would like to take this opportunity to thank you again very sincerely for your splendid work!
Why do we need the regulation?
Despite the complete liberalisation of the European telecommunications market since 1998, the "last mile", that is the subscriber's link to the network, is at present still in the hands of the "incumbent" telecommunications company.
The regulation is intended to provide for competition in this "last mile".
Only by ensuring that there is true competition in this market segment can we guarantee rapid and low-cost access to the Internet and to multimedia applications in the long term.
This is not only the dream of every Internet user, it is also an urgent necessity in the era of the new economy.
The reality in large parts of Europe is at present very different, so that dialling into the net is expensive, telephone lines are engaged while surfing the Internet, surfing is costly, and there are long waiting times.
According to the latest studies, at the beginning of 2000 only 400 000 Europeans had access to broadband services, compared with 3 million in the USA.
The European Commission has therefore rightly decided to lend a hand here - and quickly.
In my opinion there is no other alternative politically speaking but to approve the regulation in its present form and thus remove the final bottleneck.
