Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I would like to sincerely thank the rapporteur, Jorge Moreira da Silva, for his excellent work and for his report.
Climate protection is not a marginal subject for environment freaks, it is one of the greatest challenges of our time.
The dreadful storms and floods which have ravaged Europe and the rest of the world in recent months should be a wake-up call for us all.
Nearly all the scientific experts are telling us that these storms and floods will dramatically increase if we do not achieve a marked reduction in greenhouse gas emissions.
So climate protection also makes good economic sense.
That is why it makes me angry that when climate protection and the challenges it involves are being discussed people often just say what they do not want, and not what they really do want.
There is a lack of alternatives, a lack of constructive debate.
A lot of people say that we do not want nuclear energy, at any cost.
Others say that we definitely do not want tax measures.
However, I believe that we must use every possible means of reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
It also makes me angry that when Member States discuss national eco-taxes, although these national instruments are quite rightly criticised, few positive suggestions are made to replace them.
And that is the reason why on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I have tabled an amendment calling for a European climate tax which covers all greenhouse gases and is revenue-neutral.
We have a chance to correct the mistakes made at national level and to give a positive signal on behalf of Europe.
The Group of the European People's Party also considers that nuclear energy will be indispensable at least for the next few decades if we are to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
Abandoning nuclear energy, as is planned in some Member States, who are actually going ahead with that, gives exactly the wrong signal, because nuclear power stations emit considerably less greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
Before we abandon nuclear, we have to say how we intend to reduce greenhouse gases.
