Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the White Paper on food safety is the Commission's response to the public's increased sensitivity in this area.
The limited quantity of food we still allow ourselves must first and foremost be healthy, taste good and be produced in an environmentally sound way in consumers' eyes.
There are many aspects that need to be addressed in talking about food safety and if we want to guarantee it.
There are already very many organisations and institutions, not to mention associations and initiatives, concerned with food safety.
In the European single market, which implies free trade and movement of goods, we are increasingly faced with the issue of legislative jurisdiction and responsibility for controls in this area, which is so important for the European public.
The Commission is now proposing the creation of a European Food Safety Agency.
I welcome this proposal, but at the same time I have certain questions about the powers, remit and influence of a European authority.
These are the same questions that we considered in committee.
I would therefore like to compliment Mr Bowis on his excellent and well-balanced report, in which he has brought together a wide variety of ideas.
The Agency's responsibility should be for risk assessment.
It should carry out assessments and work with bodies in the Member States.
Transparency is particularly important, and is required by the public.
They want to be kept informed.
That is why the Agency has to ensure that the public has easily accessible and understandable information.
The Agency is intended to work closely with existing institutions, but that also means that information, statistics and data should also be mutually accessible.
Other people's experience and findings can be pooled with our own, and findings can be assessed at pan-European level.
We do not want everyone reinventing the wheel.
But we can also learn from each other's experience here.
That is how I see the future role of a Food Safety Agency.
