Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the last few interventions, yesterday' s debate and the one we are having today, show that despite the necessary and widely approved increase in the guarantee payment, and the increase in the guarantee payment for the EIB loan, as we see it, what is needed is an overall plan for this region, a contractual agreement that cuts across the political divide and incorporates aspects of economic policy, together with discussion and decision-making.
There is another individual measure that has been well received today.
Of course we cannot consider the issue of guarantee payments and the issue of Croatia separately from the debate that took place yesterday evening and the developments in Belgrade.
We must immediately appeal to the military and the police, in no uncertain terms, to throw their full weight behind democracy, and do all they can to ensure that this changeover of power - which was triggered by the outcome of democratic elections - proceeds peacefully over the next few hours.
We have every intention of recognising these democratic elections and the electoral victory of Vojislav Kostunica.
Of course my country, Austria, in common with all the other European countries, will also have to do its bit towards the reconstruction of Yugoslavia, in tandem with the European Union.
We will also do everything in our power to ensure that the anticipated removal of sanctions against former Yugoslavia is implemented in full.
Our honourable friend, Mr Posselt, was correct in what he said about the developments in Croatia.
But we are all agreed, nonetheless, that the parliamentary and presidential elections that took place in January 2000 have produced a new political climate.
The new government has reinforced its commitment to political and economic reform.
This will have a positive effect on relations between Croatia and the EU.
The European Union' s response to this development has been not only to appoint the advisory EU-Croatia Task Force, but also to develop the office of the special representative in Zagreb into a permanent representative office of the European Commission.
In the feasibility report on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement with Croatia, compiled in May 2000, the Commission reaches the conclusion that the conditions for taking up negotiations with Croatia have been fulfilled.
The delegations from the Croatian Parliament and from our own, have also called upon the Council to extend the EIB mandate.
The Council held in June established that all the preconditions to commencing negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement had been meet.
In July, the European Commission forwarded the draft of a negotiating mandate to the Member States, for them to comment on.
Austria, the country I come from, was one of the first three Member States, to make a positive statement.
The reason I mention this development in the year 2000, after the election, is because it shows that we need to do more than increase the guarantee fund.
We have already come a long way.
We must single-mindedly pursue the process that started in May and July as far as an Association Agreement.
Croatia and the region deserve this in the interests of peace within Europe.
