Mr President, the action plan states in its analysis that the status quo in Albania is worrying.
The poor social, economic and political conditions combined with a lack of or insufficient legal certainty and organised crime are causing migration on a huge scale.
Albania is a significant country of transit and origin for immigration into the European Union.
On the other hand, positive efforts are being made to drive forward the democratisation process and to develop society, which we must and will support.
Restricting the number of immigrants coming into the EU from and through Albania is the main aim of the action plan.
To achieve this, measures are needed which work in two different directions.
Firstly, the positive forces in Albania need to be supported; secondly, legal instruments need to be created for immigration from this region, which restrict or stop illegal immigration and trafficking in human beings, as well as the diverse forms of crime associated with them such as illicit employment and prostitution.
We need preventative measures specially tailored to Albania, which will provide support for building or rebuilding the country so as to enable people to live in dignity in the region.
Many reasons for emigrating, seeking asylum and taking flight would thus cease to exist.
But what we need on the other hand are stringent, uniform legal instruments for immigration in the whole of the European Union.
These legal instruments cannot, however, include provisions to legalise criminal actions.
Gangs of smugglers do not provide a service, generously rescuing people from persecution by totalitarian states.
Paid traffickers, most of whom are involved in large-scale, cross-border organised crime, make cruel profits out of the misfortune and hopes of the people concerned and do not provide magnanimous humanitarian services.
In this context, the proposal tabled by Mrs Schröder, to make EU aid available to the traffickers, must also be condemned as counterproductive and contemptuous of human life.
You, Mrs Karamanou, are certainly right because the traffickers are not the root of the evil.
But the root of the evil is not the European Union either.
The root of the evil are the conditions in the countries of origin.
I welcome the action plan, but I cannot support what Mrs Karamanou says in her report because she does not describe the illegal crossing of borders as a criminal act and therefore says that it is legal.
For us to tackle the causes, however, and not continue just to fight against the symptoms, we need to provide help in the regions concerned and we need to resolve the whole issue of immigration, asylum and war refugees in the European Union by coming up with solutions which do justice to the immigrants but also to the host countries.
(Applause)
