Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to begin with a variation on a quotation from the poet Heinrich Heine: "If my thoughts at night to fisheries turn, many an hour will I toss and turn".
I might add that if I think about the stock of cod in the Irish Sea, then sleep is truly murdered.
Vigilance is called for, or do you know the reason why cod stocks, which have for years been more depressed to say the least, have been allowed to reach such a historical low?
Is it because of the fish, the fisherman, environmental conditions or society at large?
What is the use of integrated coastal zone management, which we will be discussing shortly, when what structurally weak coastal regions need is a new kind of self-image and above all modern jobs?
However, this can only work if the problems of the origin principle and of recrimination, powers and responsibilities can finally be solved at all levels.
Meaningful, technically verifiable measures need to be introduced.
We need binding sanctions, and we need Member States that exercise their right to check origin, even if doing that hits their pockets.
In addition, three things are needed: political will, fishermen who think like businessmen, and the interaction of consumers and entrepreneurs in the market place.
Each of these three strands needs to be underpinned by the same concept - sustainable management of a valuable and irreplaceable food source.
Those immediately involved are jointly responsible, money alone will not solve any problems in the long term, Mr Nicholson!
Nevertheless, technical measures can help nature to recover when it has got out of balance, and, I hope, can help to restock the Irish Sea with cod.
Unfortunately, our society is inclined to skirt round the law.
And it is quite simple to do that in the middle of the night in the Irish Sea.
I believe that with targeted checks and reporting, and a continuous dialogue between those involved at all levels, we can all once again sleep soundly - including me.
That is why the Committee on Fisheries unanimously supported our feisty colleague James Nicholson.
We hope that this House, the Commission, and the Council will follow suit!
