Mr President, first of all warm thanks to the rapporteur Michael Cashman and to all those who have contributed to this report.
Until now, transparency has been little more than a much-misused slogan when applied to the activities of the EU institutions.
The Cashman report with its demands is now a first, valuable step forward, although, in my view, no more than that.
We Members should be more courageous.
We will be setting up an inter-party and interparliamentary European transparency initiative, known in short as ETI.
It will be made up of MEPs, members of national parliaments, but also media representatives, because it is important to defend ourselves jointly against the intolerable habit of secrecy in the EU institutions.
It is not just a matter of the principle of unrestricted access to all documents but also, of course, of finally managing to open the doors of Council meetings, so that in future the Council can no longer take lonely decisions in camera à la Metternich and then go in for cheap 'Brussels bashing' .
The media representatives, in particular, are warmly invited to support our parliamentarians and to work together with us so that we can find out all the things the citizen wants to know and needs to know.
Tomorrow there will be a meeting in London.
We will ask the British Foreign Trade Minister and the Minister for Science to show their understanding for our concern.
The weekend after that, the European Council of Artists will be meeting in Madrid and there, too, ETI will feature large on the agenda.
The model for us all is the American Freedom of Information Act and the living practice of transparency in Sweden.
It is not just chance that we have heard almost only Scandinavians speak here, with very few speakers from Germany or Italy and, so far at least, I believe, none from France.
It is fortunate that the Swedes will be taking over the presidency of the Council next year; perhaps they will be able to send out a much clearer signal.
In any case, we need a new age of enlightenment and this is a great opportunity for us MEPs to show our true colours.
