Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we began our work on BSE in the Temporary Committee of Inquiry into BSE, the very first thing we had to do was to expose and overcome cover-ups, secretiveness and deceit, and to take measures which, overall, have been very successful and offer a way forward in solving the problem of BSE.
We have already heard many times today that the real problem facing us is to implement the decisions we have already taken.
Mr Byrne, I am extremely grateful that so far you have made excellent progress in putting into practice the undertaking that you gave when you were appointed.
You have brought forward proposals such as the White Paper and the hygiene regulations, and I can assure you that Parliament will deal swiftly with those hygiene regulations.
We will work quickly enough for them to be effectively implemented in the new few years.
But I am not aware of anything happening at Council level here.
There are only declarations and opinions, but no decisions as regards directives or regulations.
What I find incredible is this tug of war in the Council over meat exports and imports.
This seems to be all about emotions.
The public's feelings have really been whipped up, with the sole aim of securing the market for each country's own beef.
Nothing else has happened!
Now emotions are being stirred up again with dramatic announcements about banning animal meal as feed for all animals.
If you would only implement what we agreed, then you would not need to worry about all this any more.
It reminds me of witch-hunts in the Middle Ages.
We are pursuing "sinners" who are not guilty at all.
The causes are to be found somewhere else altogether.
I would like to suggest rapid introduction of these tests that you too are proposing, Commissioner, and not as spot checks, but for every animal slaughtered, without any age restrictions.
Only then can we say to the public "This meat has been tested and you can eat it".
There really is no better solution.
I have worked out the cost - 10 cents per kilo.
So we do not need to argue here about millions of euros - every member of the public will happily pay this, I am quite sure of that!
