Madam President, since the borders between the Member States of the European Union were opened, an increasing number of firms have been taking advantage of the opportunities offered by this common market.
At that time we had to note on the one hand that freight transport had been made considerably easier, but that on the other there were still major barriers and costs associated with making the corresponding payments.
The first study on this subject, which was carried out at the instigation of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, showed at the time that cross-border transfers of over DEM 1 000 cost 25% on average, and as much as 75% in individual cases.
You have to bear in mind that small and medium-sized businesses are of course the ones primarily affected by this.
When the markets between the Member States of the European Union were opened up, our ambition as Members of the European Parliament was never to create access for large companies, which they had of course had for a long time already; it was always to open up this large European market to small and medium-sized businesses.
That is why I am extremely grateful to our rapporteur, Mrs Peijs, for the persistency with which she has pursued this objective for many years, that is to bring down the costs of making transfers between the Member States of the European Union.
I have to stress that there have already been some improvements here, that average transfer costs are much lower than they were when the borders were opened between the Member States, but I should like to emphasise just as clearly that they are still far too high and that further action is needed here.
The banks repeatedly tell us - and with some justification - that the necessary facilities to effect transfers of this kind, the giro systems which exist in the individual domestic markets, are still not fully operational at European level.
A major effort is needed here.
This remark is not directed solely at the European Central Bank, but also at the various banking associations which we have in the European Union.
What we wish to see is not just one single transfer system - which would once again be a monopoly - but competition between different transfer systems set up by different banks and groups of banks, competition which will at long last work in favour of the public and in favour of small and medium-sized businesses.
