As we have already seen in connection with the integration of Western European States into the European Community, agriculture and food is one of the most complex areas of negotiation.
Each enlargement has required long-term preparatory measures as well as transitional and special arrangements, often lasting for several years.
I believe that we are right to expect the applicant States of Central and Eastern Europe to implement similar special and transitional measures.
We should also do well to remember that, because of the great economic and social significance of farming and its output, a competitive agricultural and food-supply structure will be a vitally important factor in the success of these countries' transformation and restructuring processes.
Agriculture is a domain which is largely regulated on the basis of uniform binding European rules and regulations.
National powers are greatly restricted.
Whether we like it or not, almost 50% of the EU budget has to be spent on the maintenance of this agricultural policy.
It was decided in Berlin to allocate approximately EUR 3.1 billion a year to the gradual integration of the applicant countries for the period from 2000 to 2006, which amounts to a total of about EUR 21.8 billion, and to earmark a further EUR 58.1 billion for enlargement from the year 2002.
From where we stand at present, this financial framework will not suffice in resolving the complicated processes involved in the forthcoming round of integrations, especially from the point of view of ensuring that they are socially acceptable.
The financial framework for the enlargement of the Union, however, can only be facilitated through a rise in the current Member States' contributions and not through constant cuts in planned expenditure on the various Community policies.
This is a truth that has to be told.
The opposite approach would drive a wedge through the farming community and endanger the social development of rural areas throughout Europe.
According to an old German saying, if the farmers are thriving the state will thrive.
There is a great deal of wisdom in that saying, and it is still applicable today.
