Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a little while ago, you made the point that Parliament would not issue a statement on the number of seats in the European Parliament.
I would urge you just to read through the Leinen-Dimitrakopoulos report, in which Parliament has taken up clear positions, not only in respect of the distribution of the seats, but also on the weighting of votes in the Council and the composition of the Commission.
Perhaps these positions, when read in context, will help us to extricate ourselves from the present conflict between larger and smaller States, which is paralysing the Intergovernmental Conference.
Because that is one of the most serious problems we face.
We must recognise that the smaller States are on an equal footing with the larger ones in this Union of States, and that we must find other ways to redress the balance for the larger States.
We must not allow things to reach a point where the smaller States fear that there might be recourse to solutions by decree.
The increase in intergovernmental initiatives, the official demands raised, and the options discussed in connection with enhanced cooperation, are all initiatives that could ruin the truly successful nature of the European Union.
In the past, the European Union has been successful in those areas where the Monnet method and majority decision-making are applied, and where the institutions, i.e. Parliament and the Commission, have been strengthened.
This must be brought out at the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference, so as to avoid any misunderstandings in this respect.
To do otherwise would lead us down a blind alley.
This method, which was appropriate for 6 Members, will be all the more appropriate for 27 Members because it is not possible for the European Union to be led by a Council of Ministers that changes its chairmanship every six months, and will therefore not be in a position, once there are 27 Member States, to lend coherence to the development of the European Union.
The Commission, having the option of simple majority voting, would be better equipped to provide this impetus in the future.
For this reason, Mr President, I would urge you to push for the Monnet approach at the next Intergovernmental Conference, together with qualified majority voting, and in so doing, to make the Union fit for enlargement.
