Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is good that we are discussing and adopting the maritime safety package at first reading today.
What is less satisfactory, as has just been pointed out, is our past record; heaven knows that the States of the European Union have scarcely covered themselves in glory in the realm of maritime safety.
We know, of course, that port state control has not been a potent guarantor of maritime safety in the past, we know that the classification societies have not all discharged their duties as shipping inspectorates properly and conscientiously and that some of them have tended to be slipshod, and we know that tankers without double hulls are floating time bombs.
The more appalling thing, however, is that we knew all of this before the Erika sank.
Parliament has highlighted this situation time and again, and the sad fact is that the progress made since then would never have happened without this disaster and the public pressure that followed it.
Nevertheless, it is all the better that we are set to act, at long last, today.
I should like to express my very sincere thanks to the three rapporteurs and to say a few words on two or three specific points.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said that you recognise Parliament's demand on port state control which Mr Watts made in his report.
My first request to you is that the Council sign, seal and deliver this very quickly.
It will then be law, as it were, and can be put into practice.
I believe that some rethinking will certainly have to be done between the Council and Parliament on the liability limit for classification societies, irrespective of what is decided today.
We shall agree to an international regime for double-hull tankers, but only on condition that a set of IMO rules is actually created in April.
Our committee unanimously supports this linkage.
If IMO rules do not materialise, we shall need European legislation.
But we hope that IMO rules will be adopted in April.
For these double-hull tankers we shall need many good and safe new vessels.
I should like to see European shipyards winning the orders to build these ships in fair and open competition.
The Commission recently presented a report in which it documented the fact that Korea is pursuing a very unfair dumping policy in the shipbuilding industry.
For that reason, Commissioner, I earnestly appeal to you and to your colleague, Commissioner Monti, to pledge this assistance which our shipyards need so urgently and to do so before Christmas.
The shipyards of Europe are beset by uncertainty.
Please help to ensure that the Commission sends a clear signal here.
We are working to establish new credibility; we should not jeopardise it by letting the Commission take the wrong course of action.
