Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone has the right to life and freedom under the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights.
All the Member States of the United Nations have committed themselves to respect that declaration.
The death penalty irrevocablyviolates the right to life and is inevitably cruel, inhumane and humiliating.
In the year 2000 alone, 70 people have been executed in the USA.
There is a long list of countries in which the death penalty is carried out or in which death sentences are imposed, such as China, Iran and Iraq.
Although no death penalties have been carried out in Turkey since 1984, over 69 people have been sentenced to death.
The Turkish Parliament has the final word on carrying out this sentence and has 49 cases to deal with.
This is unacceptable for a state which is seeking membership of the European Union.
Turkey must abolish the death penalty if it is to be accepted into the European Union.
Why have a death penalty?
Since the death penalty has existed, people have unsuccessfully tried to justify the need for it.
Nowadays, supporters of the death penalty chiefly use the argument that it acts as a deterrent.
They maintain that the number of serious offences rises when the death penalty is abolished.
There is not the least evidence of this anywhere in the world.
For example, how can you explain that the murder rate in the USA, where the death penalty still exists, is considerably higher than in countries where it has been abolished?
There is always the risk of an innocent person being executed - there have already been many cases in which innocent people have been sentenced to death.
In particular, the death penalty is applied relatively often to the disadvantaged and to minorities.
The underlying principle of the death penalty is revenge, which is inappropriate in a civilised state.
Whether it is Abu-Jamal in the USA, Öçalan in Turkey or even the execution of Abdul Achmin Sabiin Iraq - we should condemn all of this.
I regard the death sentence as a barbaric ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
