Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'from problem child to model pupil' , that is how we could characterise the determination of the Slovakian government and the Slovakian parliament to swiftly tread the path to EU membership, and to spend the past two years making every available effort to fulfil the Copenhagen criteria.
We hope that the Slovakian parliament and the government will pursue this course resolutely and find the patience they need to overcome opposition and strengthen the Slovakian people on their way to Europe.
It follows from this though, that there must also be privatisation and restructuring of the economy.
The banking and financial sector must be completely reformed, and fiscal consolidation must be continued.
The dialogue between the social partners, the other groups within civil society, the government and parliament will play an important - and as we see it - positive part in the process.
The small and medium-sized enterprises must be the main beneficiaries of economic diversification.
In the long term, Slovakia should earn an ever-increasing amount of its foreign currency from economic sectors that have nothing to do with the processing of oil, or weapons production.
We welcome the fact that there is now close cooperation between Hungary and the Slovak Republic.
We are particularly delighted that Slovakia has made a start on granting the Hungarian and the other minorities rights, which are gradually approaching the standards prescribed by the Council of Europe.
It is important for this condition to be fulfilled if Slovakia' s membership of the European Union is to proceed smoothly.
Incidentally, the Slovakian government is making remarkable efforts to modernise the state apparatus and to bring on the peripheral regions.
We have noted with satisfaction that the Slovakian parliament is conscious of what needs to be done for Slovakia to be able to accede to the EU, and has set about trying to accomplish this systematically and rapidly.
We are also aware that, being a transit country in Central Europe for those on their way to Western Europe, the Slovak Republic has a special duty to take a pro-active stance against trafficking in human beings, and to fight corruption and organised crime with even more determination than before, and we have noted that the executive judiciary has been further strengthened by recent changes in the law.
On a final note, allow me, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party, to thank our rapporteur, Mr Wiersma, for his excellent and comprehensive report, and to assure him of my group' s support.
