Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the current intensification in the armed conflict between the Taliban and the Northern Alliance is extremely disturbing.
Increasing numbers of people are fleeing from the fighting.
Some sources put the number of displaced people at 90 000.
Many of these are now seeking sanctuary in makeshift camps in the mountains in the north-east of the country.
The conditions there could go badly downhill when winter sets in.
In the light of this development, ECHO, the Commission agency for humanitarian aid, is currently working hard to put together a package of emergency aid to the value of EUR 3 million, in order to support these displaced people with medical supplies, food, and the means to get through the winter.
In addition, ECHO has already made EUR 5.7 million available this year for the victims of drought in Afghanistan, for mine clearance in the north of the country and for the resettlement of refugees.
The victims of drought are also due to receive a further EUR 3 million.
I would like to take the opportunity to say, in response to Mrs Paciotti' s comment, that naturally I will not hesitate to inquire within the Commission today as to what has become of the funding for mine clearance and what is going to become of it.
Should I find that there are bureaucratic stumbling blocks here, as you put it, then you have my word that I will do all I can to overcome these obstacles with all speed.
The honourable Members are well aware that the Commission has a long-term commitment to the Afghan refugees and those who have been displaced within Afghanistan itself.
Between 1991 and 2000, the Commission made a total of EUR 400 million available for refugee aid, humanitarian emergency aid and food aid.
A significant slice of this was earmarked for mine clearance and associated information campaigns conducted by UN agencies, European or Afghan non-governmental organisations.
With its common position on Afghanistan, the European Union is supporting the United Nations' special mission in Afghanistan, and the efforts to achieve peace undertaken by the General Secretary' s special representatives.
The Union has resolved to make an effective contribution to the restoration of peace and stability in the country, and it is as plain as day that this will not come about until human rights and fundamental values are given full recognition.
Accordingly, the common position roundly condemns the ongoing discrimination against women in Afghanistan and other human rights violations that take place there.
As long as the Taliban leadership continues to be as ambiguous in its statements on opium cultivation as it has been hitherto, the Commission refuses to support any anti-drugs projects in Afghanistan.
That said, it will give staunch support to the neighbouring countries, so as to improve their chances of tackling the drugs problem.
