Mr President, Commissioner, we have had the fourth framework programme, and today we are discussing the fifth.
The present reports by the Commission and Parliament show that despite the fact that there have been a number of successes over the past few years, the list of unfinished or unsatisfactory points is too long.
Therefore it is still our goal for the next five years to consolidate the position of women in the policies of all Member States, both in terms of quality and content.
We need measures to be given substance, we require strategic goals and the implementation of policies such as equal opportunities in the economic and social spheres, social rights for women, taking into account their personal situations, and the need for childcare.
Other points to be considered include the fact that women might want to take up a career later in life, or resume a career etc., gender roles, stereotypes, and the need for equal participation and representation.
As far as the strategic goals are concerned, for example, in the sphere of 'women in working life' , economic and employment policy issues cannot be dealt with separately from issues of social responsibility, social security, and a fair distribution of caring responsibilities.
Problems to do with access to social security must be looked at on a case-by-case basis to this end.
Furthermore, the Community must do more in the way of assessing the need for additional initiatives, including, where necessary, implementing legislation and equal opportunities, and fighting discrimination.
The European Parliament, the national parliaments and networks must therefore become more closely involved.
Financial resources are indispensable, as is always the case when goals are to be achieved and there is a great deal of catching up to do.
This programme is therefore conditional on funds totalling EUR 50 million being made available for the period from 2001 to 2005.
This means that we must step up our efforts to achieve a women' s policy that crosses the institutional and political divide, and to enable the equal opportunities strategies called for to be implemented more effectively.
We must invest our energies in the realisation and implementation of the planned programmes, and this must go hand in hand with well-timed evaluations and coordination with other programmes.
We expect to receive an annual report from the President of the Commission, within the context of an annual debate in the European Parliament.
It is also necessary to establish a Council of Ministers both in order to deal with the content of the work, and with a view to winning recognition for women' s policy.
Making women' s policy an adjunct to other political themes does not do the matter justice.
Women' s policy must also be a criteria used to assess whether the candidate countries are ready for accession.
The European Parliament could lead the way here by setting a better example.
I hope that the sixth framework programme will not need to be as comprehensive as the present one.
For this to be the case, women' s policy will have to be taken more seriously over the next five years and not just included in all political, economic and social programmes, but actually implemented.
Women' s policy is not - as happens so often - to be incorporated into programmes for minorities.
At 52%, women are not a minority group!
