Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to make three short suggestions about open dialogue.
Firstly, a proposal for political dialogue.
We have already spoken about Indonesia, East Timor and Burma.
I would like to mention the situation between the People's Republic of China and Taiwan.
I believe we should make it clear that the election of the new Taiwanese President is a historical opportunity to overcome the differences on the two sides of the Taiwan Strait, and we should do this.
As Europeans we should also, at long last, have the courage to open the EU liaison office in Taipei, because Taiwan is a major economic force with which we have very close relations.
But there is the matter of political dialogue.
My second point is that we should be economically open, and we also have to tackle difficult topics sometimes.
We should take the opportunity of being in Seoul to stress once again that the subsidies Korea grants to its shipyards are unacceptable.
They put jobs throughout the EU at risk.
It is not acceptable that we assisted Korea during the ASEAN crisis by means of IMF loans and suchlike, only for Korea still to be subsidising its shipyards, which is creating unjustifiable problems for our own shipyards.
My third point is one that affects not only us but also the countries of Asia.
As has already been mentioned, we need an interparliamentary dialogue, a dialogue between the European Parliament and the parliaments of the 10 Asian states.
You quite rightly mentioned that one of the key points at the Asia-Europe Summit will be the wide-ranging dialogue, that is to say the expression of various different interests on the part of Europe and Asia.
It is not acceptable for these interests only to be the subject of exchanges between governments and officials, with academics and journalists generously being allowed to participate.
Members of Parliament also need to take part in this process - this is no longer a question of pure foreign policy.
These are all political issues which significantly affect the situation in individual countries, and so Members of Parliament must be involved in this.
When the Japanese Members of Parliament come to see us in Strasbourg in November, Mr President, we will ask them to see if the next meeting between Members of the European Parliament and Members of Parliament from the Asian countries can, if at all possible, be organised in Japan.
