.
In order to ensure equality of opportunities between women and men in cultural, social and economic life, and to minimise and prevent discrimination on grounds of gender, the Commission has adopted a twin-track approach of which the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities approves.
Special measures to help women should not be secondary; they should be integrated into policy.
In practice, initiatives are to be taken in five areas, including equality in economic life, equal participation and representation, and equal access to social rights.
EUR 53.5 million is provided for under budget item B3-4012.
This is a considerable but also necessary sum, which the Committee on Budgets has agreed to as a matter of political priority.
We would have liked to have scrutinised the fourth action programme just as we are now considering the fifth programme.
I very much hope that in future, by producing an annual review in good time, the Commission will enable this House to carry out a more in-depth analysis and hold a more thorough debate.
One more point about timing: this report contains many examples of ambiguous and infelicitous wording, because we have had to hold our debates and votes under extreme time pressure and the amendments were not available in all languages.
I have some reservations as far as the content is concerned.
For example, as so often happens in this House, studies are called for on the significance of a general reduction in working hours.We have adopted opinions by clear majorities recognising that the Member States can cope far better with flexible working hours than with unrealistic collectively bargained solutions.
Furthermore, I think that a "media code of conduct" is impractical.
Whenever woman are presented in a discriminatory way, the only thing that helps is forceful protests against each specific incident - protests by active readers of both sexes and by alert national and European Members of Parliament.
Nevertheless, I voted for the report because, on the one hand, various proposed improvements submitted by my group were taken on board, and also because the report calls for studies into the position of women in national labour markets and the inadequate access they have to social security systems, an area in which we need statistically relevant gender-specific data.
And it is quite right to call for consistency of the fifth framework programme with the Structural Funds, which are probably the most sustainable instruments the Community has, with the Community's EQUAL initiative and with the DAPHNE, STOP, PHARE and MEDA programmes.
