Mr President, one of the comments made recently by Commissioner Verheugen during an interview, which caused quite a stir, was that there was no real communication, or discussion, about enlargement, particularly between politicians in the Member States and their people.
He could not have said a truer word!
There has been no communication, it is still not happening, and I believe it is absolutely essential to have this discussion with the people.
The politicians should really take this message to heart, and show they have understood it, not just through words but also through deeds.
We recently completed a study in my country, Austria - which, in point of fact, shares its borders with the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia - according to which, the idea of enlargement meets with far greater approval in the border areas, where discussions are being held and there are initiatives and investments in place, than in other regions left untouched by these activities.
It is for us to determine a communication strategy for enlargement, through words and deeds.
Of course the second form of communication we need is that between the Member States and the candidate countries, in order to convey what it is that is important from the European Union' s perspective.
It is certainly not just about having general objectives, or simply being present, because the acquis communautaire is also very important.
I sometimes hear our neighbouring countries asking why we are so bothered about the acquis, when all that matters to them is having it confirmed that they are ready for accession.
But the acquis communautaire is the yardstick we use when assessing whether a country is ready for accession or not, and that is very important to my mind.
The third form of communication I wanted to discuss is that within the candidate countries.
It is often the case there that the government and the opposition, or the government and the public, are unwilling to talk to each other, and so this is also something that needs to be better organised.
The social partners must become involved, as must all social groupings, so as to be able to convey to the candidate countries' own citizens what enlargement is really all about.
It will be a difficult journey, and one that will undoubtedly claim victims, but, at the end of the day, it will surely take us to where we want to be.
With that in mind, I believe we parliamentarians should do our bit to ensure that there is better communication and dialogue in future.
