Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Nicole Péry for giving us high hopes of the French Presidency, which has made great strides with its law on equality.
Electoral lists comprising 50% men and 50% women could be worth emulating.
However, we are still awaiting the decision regarding a formal Council of Ministers.
Unfortunately, we are only ever referred to other Councils of Ministers for a decision.
We do not want to wait any longer.
Other speakers have made the point: we want political action.
It is high time for decisions on equal pay for equal work, i.e. for Articles 141 and 13 to be implemented.
The Charter of Fundamental Rights has to be more than a fine proclamation.
What we need are concrete implementation measures that will enable people to reconcile a career with family life.
The Fifth Action Programme will assist us in this, but we as a European Parliament have already come some way ourselves.
We have created a network of committees on equality with our female counterparts in the national parliaments, and in November, we will be meeting our female counterparts from the Member States, as well as those from the candidate countries.
We did the same thing, incidentally, in New York, at the Beijing + 5 Conference.
I was the rapporteur in Peking and the co-rapporteur in New York.
The Polish women were very grateful to us for making it clear that the representative who was there at the time most definitely did not reflect the views of Polish women.
I met with some very positive responses there.
I would like to remind our President of the Commission, Mr Prodi, of the important speech he made here.
There must be no glass ceilings in the European edifice.
The European Parliament employs 30% women, which is the highest percentage rate of all the institutions.
The Commission has 25% women, so at least there is an upward trend.
The European Court of Justice could do better, as only two of its fifteen judges are women.
Yes, and the picture looks very gloomy in the Council on the equal opportunities policy front.
All I can say there, is that the Council is what you might call a developing country where equality for women is concerned.
We have every reason to be concerned.
We have heard that the previous Council Presidency first restructured and then scrapped the Ministry for Equality.
That gives us great cause for concern, and we expect that as well as stepping up the pace in matters of equal opportunities policy, there will also be concrete measures.
