Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure we are all agreed that the stability and even long-term viability of Macedonia is dependent on Macedonians and Albanians being able, in the long run, to live together in peace there, and it is therefore in the interests of Europe to provide all the support we can in order to strengthen this peaceful coexistence and make it a lasting proposition.
That is why the Commission has repeatedly urged the Macedonian Government to resolve the outstanding problem of higher education in the Albanian language.
The Commission welcomes the passing of the new law.
The Commission is working with the OSCE High Commissioner for national minorities, Max van der Stoel, with a view to providing financial support for the implementation of this important law.
Perhaps I could use this opportunity to say that the cooperation between the Commission and the High Commissioner, Mr van der Stoel, has already got off to a good start.
Our combined efforts have enabled us to solve a similar problem that existed in two other European countries, i.e. Estonia and Latvia, and I am grateful to be able to take this opportunity to say that our cooperation with the OSCE High Commissioner in this respect has been extremely constructive and valuable.
I believe the same will apply to Macedonia.
The Commission is intending to make EUR 1 million available for the current year, under the national programme for Macedonia, in order to support the implementation of this law.
The funding allocation is provided for in the financing proposal which is to be put forward today - possibly this very hour - to the PHARE administration committee.
If the Member States adopt this financing proposal, a financing agreement will be concluded with the government and a detailed project will be drawn up in close cooperation with Mr van der Stoel in the coming weeks.
The PHARE funding made available for the year 2000 under the national programme could also be used to support the university in the coming academic year, i.e. in 2001 and 2002.
