- Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Legal Affairs Committee identified a few key points concerning the precautionary principle, reflecting concerns which are also expressed in Mrs Patrie's excellent report.
It was not our sole intention to deliver a purely legal evaluation.
On the contrary, our opinion has an undoubtedly political character too.
I emphasise this because the application of the precautionary principle demands more than perfectly crafted legislation.
It is a matter of ensuring that the high level of protection which the Treaties promise the people of the European Union is actually guaranteed.
This can only be achieved if we are really serious about the need for preventive action.
Damage limitation and compensation must not be our aim; our paramount goal must be to prevent damage to people's health and property.
We can achieve it by rigorously applying the precautionary principle, as my honourable colleague has explained.
We as legislators should never lose sight of this, and we should encourage the Commission to apply the principle from the outset when drafting legislative proposals.
Mrs Patrie's report pledges us to do precisely that.
In connection with BSE, a great deal of past and future heartache would have been spared if we had armed ourselves with adequate legislation in good time and if we had verified compliance with such legislation, which, as we know, is a matter for the Member States.
When we banned American hormone-treated meat to protect the health of our consumers, our right to take preventive action was challenged.
It was even decried as protectionism!
In another context too, the sceptics never tire of invoking the principles of proportionality and non-discrimination.
On closer inspection, it emerges that these scruples are not motivated so much by concern for the rule of law as by concern for money and profits.
I personally have no fear of excessive statutory protection.
Nor should the people of Europe have any reason to be afraid.
On the contrary, when they look at European legislation, they should be able to rest assured that all the Members of their Parliament attach greater importance to public health than to the quest for profits.
For this reason, I recommend that we follow the line that the rapporteur has mapped out for us.
