Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a proverb which says that good things come to those who wait.
The words of Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf certainly illustrated the aptness of that proverb to the present situation.
Besides the week's major topics, namely our discussions, decisions and votes on enlargement and institutional reform, there have been other subjects that the public has also been following with interest, subjects on which the position of the general public can also be said to have moved perceptibly.
Over the past few years, public awareness of food-safety issues in particular has heightened considerably, and this naturally extends to animal feed as well as human foodstuffs.
Just think of BSE or dioxin, and you will know what I mean.
The discussions on the Paulsen reports, of course, clearly illustrated this.
The marketing of animal feed, or perhaps it would be more accurate to say the trading of animal feed, also engenders this awareness.
When mixing takes place, in the case of compound feedingstuffs, I believe the need for caution is even greater, whether these compounds are functional foods or feed mixes.
In the case of these products, more detailed labelling is expected.
Higher priority must be given to verifiability.
The mandatory open declaration is essential, and the greatest possible degree of transparency is necessary throughout the supply chain.
I believe, too, that transparency will ultimately strengthen competition; it stands to reason that transparent competition creates a greater incentive to manufacture the best possible mixes.
Farmers quite simply have to know more precisely what is in their compound feedingstuffs, and they must also be able to find out, at least on request, the percentage content of each ingredient.
That is their right as purchasers as well as being consistent with the interests of consumers.
Equally important, of course, is the food-safety aspect - beef is another issue here - and traceability.
This, at least, is well embedded in the proposal.
The amendments make the proposal better still.
The PPE-DE Group approves Amendments Nos 1 to 5 but cannot support Amendment No 6.
The question of genetically modified cereals should be regulated elsewhere.
We support the amended Graefe zu Baringdorf report and the legislative resolution.
Let me express our thanks and appreciation to the rapporteur, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, and to Mrs Roth-Behrendt.
Nevertheless, it is essential that we continue to stand firm.
