Mr President, in March this year we adopted the directive on cableway installations designed to carry persons.
If the directive had already been implemented, the accident in Austria might not have happened.
This demonstrates just how important legislation is here, and directives in areas as sensitive as product safety need to be implemented as soon as possible.
I hope that will happen before 3 May 2002.
The proposal on product safety before us today is a general directive relating in particular to those areas not covered by existing directives.
I would like to thank the Commission for adding a very important new point here.
I have in mind the presumption of conformity, that is to say that if products comply with European standards they are considered to be safe.
I believe that this principle is enormously important for consumer protection because it makes it possible to check at any point whether a product complies with standards or not.
In view of this, Amendment No 37, which provides for external certification and for CE declarations to be issued not just by companies, but also by external and impartial agencies, is particularly important for consumer protection, because it would, of course, considerably increase consumers' confidence in such declarations.
In the case of Amendment No 14 on the publication of standards in the Official Journal, I naturally have some difficulty with this because the present copyright is with the national standards agencies, who are therefore entitled to royalty payments from the European Union.
In addition, there is the question of what the scope of current standards in Europe is and what the scope of European standards would be.
I therefore have some very considerable reservations and wish to reject this particular provision.
With regard to export bans, it cannot automatically be assumed that our standards are appropriate throughout the world.
There are many countries that have their own regulations and safety standards which meet those countries' needs far better than standards currently in force in Europe.
