Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the last speaker, I would like briefly to go into four particular points again.
Firstly, as we see it, enlargement is not merely an obligation.
It is true that we are motivated by moral considerations, but we are also committed to enlargement owing to deeply held political convictions.
Enlargement is a win-win situation.
Both sides: the Member States of the European Union and the candidate countries, stand to benefit from enlargement once it has taken place.
Secondly, enlargement - both the enlargement of the European Union and that of the Economic and Monetary Union - is about fulfilling criteria.
There are the Copenhagen criteria to be fulfilled on the one hand, and those of Maastricht on the other.
It should be made clear to all countries that accession to the European Union is not quite the same thing as accession to the Economic and Monetary Union and to the euro zone, and that there are different deadlines.
It is clear that there is to be no opting out of the Economic and Monetary Union, and no bargaining during either set of negotiations.
Thirdly, we must do our utmost to prepare the European Union for the enlargement process, by 2003, in the spirit of the splendid speech made by President of the Commission, Mr Prodi.
Fourthly - and it is very important to me to make this point by way of conclusion - notwithstanding the pacts that are to be fulfilled, the enlargement process is a political process.
It is about people' s hopes and fears, opportunities and risks, prejudice and fact.
We must accord this political process the historic importance it deserves and enter into discussion with the citizens.
We need to politicise the politics of the enlargement process if we are to have the ability to engage in meaningful conversation with the citizens.
The enlargement process and the Economic and Monetary Union are not just a matter for the European institutions.
I call upon the Member States and all public mandate holders and media at all levels to become more actively involved in this process, because only then will we be able to do justice to public confidence in these initiatives, the objects of which are in the interests of us all.
