Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are also to discuss the Montfort report this week, which Parliament wants to use to promote an entrepreneurial way of thinking.
It is therefore particularly apt to acknowledge three things in this debate.
Firstly, the fact that a European Charter of Fundamental Rights has now been drafted, Article 16 of which establishes the right to entrepreneurial freedom.
Of course, this right demands strict competition law, because only this will guarantee fair competition.
It protects consumers and investors.
Secondly, it is only right that we should acknowledge the highly commendable book by Karel van Miert, which tells us about the means employed by entrepreneurs to bring pressure to bear on other entrepreneurs.
Thirdly therefore, I would like to congratulate the Commission and its staff on the actions and decisions they have taken in the field of competition law, previously under Karel van Miert and now under your overall control, Professor Monti.
Against this background, you have reworked a communication on services of general interest and set out the legal situation once again.
This statement contains three important messages.
Firstly, the Member States have the right to define everything that belongs under this heading.
Secondly, the Member States have the right to inject supplementary funding if it would otherwise be impossible to maintain these activities.
And thirdly - and this is highly relevant to this debate - there must of course be no areas which are exempt from competition law.
It is therefore possible to see why renationalisation would spell trouble.
It must not annul the general validity of Community law.
Hence those articles in the motions for resolutions which point to this fact, including the need for transparency, are particularly valuable.
Professor Monti, I would like to make a suggestion in this respect.
You really ought to clarify, at an earlier stage, that start-up aid - the administration of which varies substantially from Member State to Member State, in the sphere of renewable energies for example - will enjoy confidentiality protection, at least for the duration of its lifetime, even if, in the meantime - which is what I am hoping will happen - the Union as a whole upgrades its support measures.
