Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, even if Côte d'Ivoire used to be a bastion of stability and democracy compared to other states in western and central Africa, for a long time now it has seen ethnic and religious tensions and, most recently, the abuse of power by the former government under President Bedié, which eventually led to the violent military coup.
But the fact that this military regime was recently ousted in the elections, under difficult circumstances, says something about the democratic resolve of the people of Côte d'Ivoire.
I believe there is now a chance to restore democracy and the rule of law.
Here I wish the current president a good hand and a very delicate touch.
The unrest surrounding the elections produced a death toll of about 200, which of course places a heavy burden on the future of the new regime.
But we must also say that the day of reconciliation on 9 November will send out new signals in regard to establishing democracy and the rule of law and taking seriously the demand for national reconciliation.
The European Union has been asked, and has declared itself prepared, to help ensure that the elections in December, as well as the local elections in January, are conducted in a peaceful, fair, free and transparent manner.
Here, too, we must keep a watchful eye and take a constructive approach to this process.
Much will depend on whether it really proves possible to consolidate these first cautious steps.
Of course that also means amending the constitution so that ethnic origin can no longer be taken as grounds for discrimination.
Very many parts of Africa comprise very many different ethnic and religious mixtures.
To draw such narrow boundaries between them can only produce problems and difficulties.
We know that millions of people living in Côte d'Ivoire come from one of its neighbouring countries.
I will not even broach problems such as child labour - for there also there are problems.
A peaceful environment needs to be created for these people as well, and they, too, must be given some political responsibility in the country and must not be excluded.
In that regard, I believe that the resolution reflects Parliament's resolve to make its contribution and I hope we will also manage to succeed in doing so.
