Mr President, the report before us gives the EU carte blanche to establish a military intervention capacity.
I regard that as unacceptable.
In the early part of 1990, when it was foreseeable that the Warsaw Treaty would collapse, the Government of the German Democratic Republic which I headed adopted a new military doctrine based on freedom from nuclear weapons, on international security partnership and on gradual disarmament.
Non-use of force was our principle.
The end of the confrontation between the two blocs had rendered NATO superfluous.
Yet instead of dissolving itself, NATO is mutating from a defensive into an offensive power and alliance and is spreading its radius of action ever further eastward.
The arguments advanced today for the creation of an EU intervention force resemble those that have been put forward for the continuing existence of NATO.
This move is not primarily designed to pacify trouble spots but rather to permit the use of military means to safeguard access to markets, raw materials and spheres of interest.
I am in favour of the EU continuing to make peacekeeping the hallmark of its foreign and security policy and to detach itself from the apron strings of the United States.
This, however, depends on a completely different set of conditions.
First of all, the war that was fought against Yugoslavia in defiance of international law and the results of that war, such as the new tensions in southern Serbia, show that military force must not become a political instrument again.
Secondly, NATO should be gradually winding down rather than engaging in eastward enlargement.
Thirdly, a nuclear-free corridor, such as Olaf Palme once suggested, should be created from the Baltic to the Black Sea.
Fourthly, the OSCE must be strengthened and endowed with enough resources for the prevention and resolution of conflicts in accordance with the fundamental principles of its security policy and not through the creation of storm troops.
Fifthly, the United Nations should be asked to convene a world peace summit, at which lessons can be drawn from the wars of the twentieth century so that the peoples of this earth will be offered the prospect of a peaceful twenty-first century.
Europe could set an example here, and the creation of an intervention force is surely the wrong signal for it to send.
