Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission shares the deep sorrow and consternation felt throughout Greece over this horrendous accident.
The Commission has expressed its sympathy to the families of the victims and the Greek government.
Unfortunately, this is not the first accident of its kind in European waters and, as I am sure you know, the European Union took decisive measures after the last serious ferry accident, the Estonia disaster in 1994.
A series of far-reaching provisions was introduced in order to improve the safety of ferry passengers.
As you will recall, the purpose of the provisions introduced at that time was to ensure: first, that passengers are registered.
Secondly, that harmonised safety standards are applied, including in relation to stability and rescue equipment for inland traffic in the European Union.
Thirdly, that compulsory surveys and investigations are carried out after accidents.
Fourthly, that social standards are maintained on board and, fifthly, that the shipping safety code is applied to ferry operator companies.
As a result, domestic and foreign voyages by passenger ferries to or from Union ports are covered by a complete legal framework.
It is the Commission' s job to monitor the practical application of this legal framework within its remit as set out in the Treaty.
The Commission therefore contacted the Greek authorities as soon as the Express Samina went down, requesting clarification of the application of Community law.
The Commission asked the Greek authorities to check if the ships required to adopt the Community' s safety standards by 30 September had in fact done so.
As a result of the check requested by the Commission, 60 ships were taken out of service pending proof of compliance with standards.
The Commission fully endorses the European Parliament' s view that safety regulations applicable to passenger ferries now need to be tightened.
The Member of the Commission responsible, Vice-President De Palacio, therefore intends to include the question of revising the current directive on safety standards for passenger ferries in its work programme for 2001.
The Commission also intends to conduct a detailed examination of passenger transport liability regulations, in order to ascertain if they need to be changed.
Finally, I should like to stress that the Commission is convinced of the need to make European legislation on the safety of passenger ferries a top priority and to ensure that this legislation is applied strictly and uniformly throughout the Community.
Only thus will we contain the risk of a repeat of such accidents.
