Mr President, I agree in many important respects with the previous speakers, because much of what is happening in Vietnam today is unacceptable.
I myself once travelled in this country and came to know its vitality, beauty and wealth of resources.
That makes me all the sadder that it is not summoning up the courage to introduce greater freedom and power of initiative, that the government and the political leaders are preventing that.
Nevertheless, in answer to Mr Dupuis, I regret in that respect that we could not agree on a joint resolution, that important and justified points that are also endorsed by the Human Rights Watch - not the most tolerant organisation when it comes to violations of human rights - were not accepted.
If you are now more or less announcing that you will vote against these amendments, then unfortunately I must announce that we will probably abstain from the vote on this resolution.
That is not because we are against its fundamental content, but because we believe that we should have found a common basis here.
Mr President, with your permission I will misuse a little of my speaking time and draw attention to a case which could not be included in the list of urgencies because it only recently became known.
In Iran, two individuals, Said Sadr and Khalil Rostamchani, have been threatened with the death penalty, or at least the public prosecutor has applied for it, in a case relating to an event held by the Heinrich Böll Foundation in Berlin after the elections.
I would ask you to draw the attention of the President of this House to this very precarious situation.
I am not necessarily calling for intervention, but we should follow this case very closely and then, if it seems necessary, also make it clear that we are against the death penalty under all circumstances, but especially for what are no more than 'ideological' crimes.
I would just ask you to approach this matter with delicacy, and I hope you will pardon me this misuse of my speaking time on the question of Vietnam.
