Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a remark to what Mr Deva has just said.
It is one of the real scandals of Europe that sums amounting to billions from the Member States have still not been placed under the control of the European Parliament and made subject to this Chamber' s budget law.
No-one controls this money, and this is entirely the responsibility of the Member States and of the Council and, Mrs Rühle, also of the red-green government in Germany which, despite having previously stated otherwise, is also not now prepared to take this step.
Secondly, reservations were expressed a few weeks ago in terms of what would happen if a movement really were to arise in Serbia.
Would the European Union be in a position to act in this matter at all?
We had, it was said, not set aside any of the money we had generously promised.
I believe that, in the last few days, the European Union has shown, faster than the United States and faster than the Member States, that it is in a position to respond appropriately to such a situation.
Moreover, Parliament has this week, and before the Council too, reached important decisions to enable the developments which Doris Pack discussed actually to occur, namely the arrival of the initial sums before Christmas of this year and a situation in which people sense that the efforts on behalf of democracy are worthwhile.
That leads to my third remark on what now faces us.
I am concerned that, while our common foreign and security policy progresses ever further, becomes ever more skilful and even acquires a 'Mr CFSP' , and while we are also further developing the European security and defence policy and coming up with practical measures, we are, in the long term, spending less and less on foreign policy measures.
Special attention has again been given in this Chamber to the fact that we are beating a retreat from Latin America, Asia and Africa, and particularly from Latin America.
In the long term, it is therefore just not on to talk more about foreign policy and less about international solidarity.
We need to bring about changes in this area.
It is not right that the Budget should penalise other regions of the world, and it is also necessary for the Commission to bring about a situation in 2001 in which Commissioner Patten' s declared view prevails, to the effect that the money should flow more rapidly.
