Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Theorin, for adopting this topic, the participation of women in peaceful conflict resolution, as the subject of a European Parliament own-initiative report.
Women are especially affected by wars and conflict situations because of their responsibility for their family, their children and the elderly, but also because they often assume sole responsibility in the absence of their husbands and fathers and accordingly often have to ensure, single-handed, that their family survives.
The situation is also particularly difficult for women, however, if they still have to fight for recognition and for equal rights in practice.
Decisions on implementing relief programmes are the responsibility of crisis teams, and the specialist knowledge and expertise of women is often not recognised or not given due respect by such teams.
Yet it seems all too obvious that the people to involve in such difficult situations are those who bear responsibility on the ground, on the home front as it were, and can contribute to resolving conflicts from their own experience.
As, unfortunately, this is not regarded as obvious, this report makes a very specific demand for women to be integrated into these bodies and for them to be given a participatory role.
The report denounces the fact that conflict situations are still associated with violent assaults and also appalling sexual assaults.
Preventative measures are needed, including the provision of special protection for women in refugee camps by segregating said camps.
We must help women who are victims of violence.
That much we agree on.
This chapter of violence against women in conflicts goes beyond the actual subject of this report and really should have been developed further in view of its importance and highly explosive nature.
The Theorin report goes into a lot of detail and repetition, which we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats consider do not belong in an official document.
We also need to make sure that requests are made in a realistic framework.
For example, I hope that the compromise reached, which Mrs Theorin referred to in connection with Paragraph 12, will also gain the support of this House.
In areas where decisions are within the competence of Member States, we in the European Parliament can highlight changes and desirable improvements.
But we have no legal power to achieve them.
It is the responsibility of the Member States to take decisions regarding women in refugee camps.
The PPE-DE Group has gone to great pains to table appropriate amendments, and I ask honourable Members also to support the compromise amendment tabled by the rapporteur on Paragraph 12.
If we want our voice to be heard on the international stage, we must take matters forward through diplomatic channels, recognising their sensitivity.
