Mr President, Commissioner Patten, I believe you have given us a good introduction and briefing on the issues and topics that we shall be discussing, and I believe the honourable Member, Mr Elles, was right to emphasise the need to establish precisely what we wish our transatlantic relationship to achieve in the year 2001 and beyond.
The most important thing for us will be to consolidate, to examine very carefully the actual progress that has been made in the various programmes we have launched under the umbrella of the Transatlantic Agenda.
These are the topics referred to by Mr Elles.
But there is another area which is very important and which has come in for a great deal of criticism, namely the mutual-recognition agreements, which have given rise to very many problems on both sides of the Atlantic, especially the American side.
I should be grateful if you would deal in detail with these agreements in the communication which is scheduled for the spring of next year and if, besides the analysis requested by the other side of the House, you would also make proposals as to how we can achieve new aims in future in all domains - in the various dialogues, in our cooperation in the fields of foreign policy and security policy and even in practical everyday areas such as the mutual-recognition agreements.
That will be very, very important.
Another area relates to the aforementioned EU educational centres, which I believe have been highly successful.
Consolidation is important, but so, too, is the right perspective.
I believe you touched on an important point there.
Under the Clinton Administration, we have made great strides in the realm of political cooperation.
However, we have also seen trade policy, and trade disputes in particular, playing an ever greater role as a determinant of general political relations and gaining absolutely unmerited prominence, in my opinion.
It is essential that, at future summit meetings, you actually manage to focus attention on the major political issues and that matters such as the trade disputes which highlight differences between us are assigned to their proper place, that their importance is not exaggerated and that they are not allowed to become focal points of political discord between Europe and the United States.
So it will be important to change tack here and write a real Transatlantic Agenda for the year 2001.
I know that our Ambassador in Washington, Gunter Burghardt, has already spoken about this, and I should be delighted if his interesting proposals were actually incorporated into your communication.
I wish you every success in this task.
I also wish our Commissioner, Pascal Lamy, every success in his efforts to bring about the settlement of our trade disputes with the United States, and it would please me to see you present the communication at the earliest possible date.
