Madam President, first of all, I should like to say to the Commission that it has done its job well.
It is my wish that the European Union will continue to speak with one voice at the forthcoming international gatherings, and I consider it utterly futile to spend our time now apportioning blame to individual ministers.
That will get us nowhere.
We know that the failure of this conference is not the end of what has been a very lengthy and highly complex process; the process will continue.
However, we must ask ourselves where improvements can be made.
The first point, which I also frame as a question to the Commission, is whether this method we have chosen here, with conferences at which representatives of 180 nations have to agree on a joint document, does not ask too much of us, especially when time is pressing towards the end and the differences between the main parties have not yet been settled.
Is it not time that this issue was dealt with by the U.S. and European Heads of State and Government at the G7 summits?
Secondly, this does not mean that I aim to give us such an easy time.
When we point the finger at the Americans, we must not forget that a number of fingers are pointed back at us.
It is not as if we Europeans had all done our homework.
CO2 emissions are on the increase here too; we know that, and we have discussed it often enough.
The question is whether we actually need a global convention before we can start to reduce our own emissions.
May I remind the Commission of its communication on emissions trading and on the conference in The Hague, in which it spoke of being able, in certain circumstances, to present a draft directive in which the quotas agreed by the environment ministers in 1998 would be prescribed and in which sanctions would be laid down for quota violations.
My question is this: are you willing to do that, to present such an instrument, even though we have not completed the Kyoto process?
Is there actually anything to stop us introducing emissions trading in the European Union in the year 2005, now that a number of countries have already made a start on emissions trading within their national borders?
My final comment is that I find it right and proper that you have remained firm on the issue of "sinks" , primarily because it is extremely difficult to measure "sinks" accurately.
We were supposed to bring home measurable results, by which I mean physically measurable results, but that aim has not been compatible with the Americans' position.
