Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite the technical problems, I would like to speak.
18% of the European Union's population lives below the poverty line.
These 65 million people are often overlooked.
They do not fit into the image of a prosperous Europe with enormous growth potential.
The cause of this poverty is a lack of jobs, inadequate wages - the phrase "the working poor" comes to mind - and insecure jobs.
If we are to achieve the economic and social cohesion to which we aspire we need not just a high level of employment, but also a high level of social protection.
Mrs Diamantopoulou, I welcome the fact that the Commission ....
(Technical fault)
I am being sabotaged, Mr President!
This should help to recognise the symptoms of exclusion and provide for an exchange of experience based on precise qualitative and quantitative data.
A dialogue is needed between interest groups and the relevant NGOs.
National monitoring centres and regional and local authorities need to be involved.
The benefits of synergy are felt when Member States' measures are linked with Community policies, actions and instruments and with the European Structural Funds.
This can lead to successful practices which act as a model.
Another result is building and extending networks.
And another still is the promotion of innovative projects.
I regard it as essential to set up a reflection group at European level with representatives of the NGOs, the social partners, the Council and the European Parliament taking part in an annual round table.
The concept of open coordination in employment policy since Luxembourg needs to incorporate exclusion and to be reflected in the Member States' National Action Plans.
In 1992, the Council called on the Member States to combat social exclusion.
In 1999, it agreed to promote social integration.
We should reinforce this active role as from 2001, in order to give those afflicted by poverty and social exclusion access to economic, social and cultural activities.
