Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party, I would like to draw two points requiring clarification to your attention.
I will deal firstly with Amendment No 15.
This amendment highlights a procedure concerning the acquis communautaire.
The Association Agreements concluded between the European Union and the candidate countries, and those which have yet to be concluded, should incorporate regulations banning discrimination against groups protected under Article 13.
It is all the more crucial for this step to be taken if certain candidate countries have minorities that require protection on the employment and occupation front.
Secondly: Amendment No 18.
The amendment refers to the fact that many Member States have provisions in place that could lead to discrimination against homosexuals seeking employment.
However, the amendment does not emphasise the importance of criminal law provisions in dealing with such behaviour.
It takes the form of a recommendation, in as much as it states that the Member States should annul these provisions.
In phrasing it this way, the principle of subsidiarity is upheld.
This does not fall within Europe' s sphere of competence.
I was slightly disappointed that we did not have the opportunity to get majority support for the need to set a limit on the storage of documents.
I had proposed six to twelve months.
As I see it, that would be realistic in operational terms.
I worked for companies for many years.
We were unable to achieve this.
What we did manage to achieve though, and what pleased me enormously, was that we were able to make it abundantly clear that special regulations must be introduced for religious communities, because we must make it possible for people to identify with the idea behind and the fundamental aims of these communities.
We scored a major common victory there, to my mind, and we also finally managed to secure regulations benefiting the physically handicapped.
I am delighted that people have been so willing to compromise today, as indeed our voting has shown.
I would like to thank you all again most warmly for your excellent teamwork.
