Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the European Parliament delegation in the Convention and the President of the Convention, Mr Roman Herzog, for their committed work.
The drafting of a European Charter of Fundamental Rights is an important and necessary step towards a Europe which is close to the people.
Some people think that it is possible to create an internal market in Europe without agreeing on fundamental values and principles.
The majority of the European Parliament has never supported this view.
For example, with the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions - which was, of course, supposed to be primarily an internal market directive - we did not allow this directive to be adopted without fundamental ethical principles being enshrined in it, and without particular techniques which offend against human dignity being prohibited from patenting.
Where modern genetic engineering is concerned, in particular, this was an important step towards establishing common values in Europe.
The Charter is a further - certainly much more important - step.
Many parts of the draft which we have before us are excellent.
But the draft is worth improving precisely in respect of the protection of human dignity and the protection against its abuse by modern technologies.
The wording is imprecise in some places, and I am particularly concerned that Article 3 of the draft Charter only prohibits the reproductive cloning of human beings.
This can be interpreted as a step backwards compared with previous European legislation.
In the directive on patenting biotechnological inventions, the cloning of human beings is prohibited as a whole, Commissioner Prodi, because it offends common decency and law and order - so it is not only the patent that is prohibited; the technique is too.
Commissioner Busquin very kindly assured me of this once again in a letter this week, and that is why it is dangerous for us now to be weaker in the Charter than in existing European Union legislation.
This is not our delegation's fault; it is not Roman Herzog's fault: it is the fault of the governments of the Member States.
That is why pressure needs to be exerted on them once again to introduce an improvement at this point in the text.
