Mr President, could we please check before the vote that enough members are present in the Chamber to give us the 314 votes needed or if the other two reports should perhaps go first, because there has been some confusion as to how long this break is supposed to last.
In all events, we must be careful not to upset the compromise which we have now reached simply because some members are unaware of the fact that we are about to vote.
On the subject itself, I have just one brief technical comment.
This is a complicated subject.
We must back medical progress and, at the same time, ensure that subjects are protected during trials.
The committee accepted the report unanimously.
Nonetheless, a number of proposed amendments have been tabled, as the Commissioner rightly says.
They are compromise amendments designed to bring about agreement with the Council.
The Council has asked us to accept the spirit of the report but to change the wording here and there.
Hence these proposed amendments, these so-called compromise amendments from three groups.
I think they reflect the views not just of these three groups but of other groups which have refrained from putting their name to them for technical reasons.
I therefore call on the House to accept these compromise amendments and to reject the new proposals which have now been tabled by other groups so as to avoid jeopardising the compromise with the Council.
Not because I am opposed to the proposals in principle but because I want to safeguard the compromise with the Council and avoid risking a complicated and tricky conciliation procedure for the sake of an amendment.
In order to make full use of this compromise, I should like to ask the presidency to vote on proposed Amendment No 22, which is scheduled right at the beginning of the vote, after Amendment No 43, because Amendment No 43 reflects the compromise with the Council, while Amendment No 22 reflects the committee's original position and should only be adopted if the compromise does not win a majority here in the House.
Before the vote on Amendment No 22:
