Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful for the fact that we are, after all, to have the opportunity to discuss the proposal for a Council Directive amending Directive 68/193/EEC on the marketing of material for the vegetative propagation of the vine, and I also hope that tomorrow' s vote will have a positive outcome.
In terms of area, production and consumption European wine growing is in a leading position globally.
In several Member States wine growing represents a significant proportion of total agricultural production, and in many regions this sector is a crucial source of agricultural income.
Wine growing frequently takes place in areas in which other forms of agricultural activity would be difficult or impossible.
Wine growing is a very varied and dynamic sector characterised by long-established traditions and ancient cultures.
The vine propagating material provides the basis for optimal grape and wine production as regards quality, excellence and quantity, and establishes these factors over a period of 25 to 40 years.
It is thus extremely significant and it is essential to guarantee optimum reliability in terms of quality and trueness to variety.
The trade in, and marketing of, material for vegetative propagation of vines has, up to now, been laid down in directive 68/193/EEC dating from 1968.
The directive contains a number of provisions which up to now have allowed Member States to make unilateral exemptions from some of the rules, and the directive has already been amended several times.
I welcome the Commission' s proposal for amendments, which has grouped the amendments needed clearly in a single document and has also included new amendments arising from new developments and knowledge: as for example those concerning new types of propagating material for vines produced from herbaceous cuttings and in vitro propagation.
The desired consolidation of the single market is very much to be welcomed.
There is an urgent need to change or abolish old or outdated provisions so as to remove existing or potential barriers to trade.
As far as I am concerned, French vine propagators should also be in a position to propagate vines for the German or Italian market, and vice versa.
The specific characteristics of wine production and its further development, in particular in technical and scientific areas, make it essential to stipulate detailed technical provisions which will contribute to the smooth operation of the internal market, improve marketing prospects and also protect the legitimate interests of consumers and producers.
Accordingly, the Commission should publish a Community Catalogue of varieties, compiled on the basis of notifications from the Member States.
This will bring greater trading security for European wine growers.
Many amendments contain a better definition of terms such as 'genotype' , for example.
Accompanying paperwork and controls are important, and the Commission must ensure that only one document is required for each party, wherever they happen to be in Europe.
High-quality and healthy vine propagating material is playing an increasingly important role these days.
The report has taken on a particularly explosive character in the past few weeks.
This is because the Commission is proposing to create a legal basis with regard to genetically modified varieties.
The Commission proposal refers to Council Directive 90/220, which is to regulate all genetically modified material, as a horizontal directive.
We have done the same with respect to forest and plant material.
However, the fact that directive 90/220 is still undergoing the conciliation procedure should not stop us from proceeding in taking exactly the same approach with vines as we have done with forest and plant material.
All the amendments that are currently being introduced with regard to directive 90/220, under the conciliation procedure, will be applicable to vines at a later date.
There is no genetically modified vine propagating material available on the market as yet; however, research is ongoing.
The question as to whether genetically modified vines will be granted a permit at some future date, or whether this idea will be rejected by the wine producers and the wine trade, does not form part of today' s discussion of the directive.
I am sure we will have the opportunity to discuss these matters at length on another occasion.
The directive under discussion today guarantees that traditional vine varieties, which are characteristic of wine growing in the different regions, are to be maintained and protected.
Traditional wine growing is our strength in the European Union, and so it deserves our support.
I would therefore urge the House to assent to the report as it stands, and hope that this will enable the European internal market to be brought into play for vine propagating material.
