Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I intend to focus on one fundamental point in my comments on the budget lines for environmental, public health and consumer protection policy.
Generally-speaking, the proportion of the budget earmarked in order to safeguard and maintain the environment is far too small.
This is particularly annoying in that environmental policy is a horizontal policy because environmental policy - or at least successful environmental policy - must be applied as a cross-border policy.
We all know that.
Which is why safeguarding and regenerating the environment is a job which has to be done at European Community level.
But this also means that we need to be given proper funding once and for all.
We cannot just keep on issuing endless directives and regulations, often without sufficient background information, scientific basis and generally to unbelievably short deadlines.
Allow me to make a comment: I am not the only one who constantly has the impression in these circumstances that my only purpose in sitting on the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy is to prevent the worst in the frenzy and rush of regulation which is thrust upon us.
We must not lose our sense of environmental direction by promoting small, local measures, however badly they may be needed, or by blindly shelling out money to institutions which appear to produce little in the way of results, which applies, in my view, to the European Environment Agency in Copenhagen.
What European environmental policy needs is a scientifically-based framework for action.
That is something we do not have.
And that is because we lack the foundations.
We need to invest in scientific research and analysis.
Only then shall we be able to work out realistic prospects, prospects for linking environmental and health policies to other policy areas, prospects for what promises to be a successful and realistic approach to problem-solving.
That is the only right and the only sensible way of investing the money at our disposal on behalf of our fellow citizens.
