Mr President, the report on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement takes account of the new democratic developments in Croatia and highlights the European prospects for this country, which has managed in the course of the past year to achieve its aim of joining the international community of states.
Its membership of the NATO Partnership for Peace and of the World Trade Organisation, its bilateral agreements with the EFTA states, its free-trade agreements with the CEFTA member states and the negotiations that began recently, on 8 November, on a wide-ranging Stabilisation and Association Agreement with the European Union are all evidence that Croatia has embarked on a clear change of course since the elections of 3 January 2000.
The European Union emphasised this again by the summit held in Zagreb on 24 November.
However, it also became clear at this summit that the situation inside Yugoslavia remains as brittle and strife-ridden as ever.
If this pattern of behaviour continues, where in case of doubt each party fights the other, it could break up the Stability Pact for South-East Europe, which is based on regional cooperation.
For even now states like Croatia are asking whether the obligation to cooperate on a regional basis might not end up delaying their own accession to Europe.
Croatia, like a more democratic Serbia, where I hope that democracy will be consolidated on 23 December, could become major factors of stability in these regions destroyed by wars and ethnic conflicts.
It is important for the European Union, as also the European Parliament, to do their utmost to provide economic protection and support for the democratic process in these countries.
Even if they still have a long way to go before they can join the European Union, economic and political help quite simply offer the principle of hope, and Mr Baltas' report takes that principle into account.
But we should also apply the principle of differentiation in this region.
Croatia has made significant progress, especially by ratifying the European Convention on Human Rights, the European Convention for the Prevention of Torture, the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities and the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.
The European Parliament's report rightly notes that.
Another point in Croatia's favour is the changed attitude of the newly elected Croatian authorities to the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia.
Croatia has always felt part of western Europe, western culture.
It needs all our support and encouragement along its chosen road to economic and political reform.
