Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have picked the right moment to discuss enlargement.
The fact that there has been a reunited Germany in the European Union for ten years now, bears witness to the solidarity between us.
Other countries should now be given the chance to share in this, even though enlargement is not just about solidarity.
The Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism incorporated its position on the Rack report into the Brok report.
As a Social Democrat, there are three points I would like to highlight.
Firstly, we need a more ambitious transport infrastructure programme for the candidate countries.
That is why the Financial Perspective does not appear to us to go far enough, because there is a huge disparity between the diagnosed infrastructure requirements and the financing instruments made available by the Union, together with the candidate countries' own means, and it will only be possible to implement public private partnership financing models to a limited extent.
However, it is politically unacceptable for there to be development periods in excess of 50 years.
Secondly, the transeuropean corridors are defined intermodally.
We should make a virtue out of something that was born of necessity; i.e. there was a need to localise major trends in goods and passenger movements.
In other words, we should keep the integration of modes of transport in mind right from the start.
In addition the traditionally robust sector of goods transport by rail should receive the most support.
In this way, we might avoid having to implement as many regeneration measures at a later stage, as we are having to do in our own countries now.
Thirdly, we want transitional periods for goods transport by road, which will enable there to be a gradual opening up.
They could even start in the pre-accession period.
It is in the interests of both sides to achieve economic and social balance during integration of the transport markets, because we are already waiting with bated breath as to the consequences of distorted competition on our roads.
