Mr President, it is to be hoped that the fact that the issue of equal opportunities is the last point to be discussed in the report on enlargement, is no reflection of its status, although it sometimes looks that way.
It is therefore all the more important that equal treatment for men and women should be incorporated into the acquis communautaire as a fundamental human rights issue, and that establishing the necessary institutions in this sphere should be a crucial precondition to the implementation of the acquis communautaire.
Accordingly, equal opportunities must be accorded the same importance, and be discussed with the same level of commitment as all the other issues that feature on the agenda of the accession negotiations.
The candidate countries' legislative programmes and guidelines must include implementation mechanisms that allow for equal opportunities and clearly prohibit discrimination.
We must facilitate this process through dialogue with the European Parliament and back up from experts, and through the involvement of NGOs, associations and organisations, and financial aid.
The public and private institutions in the candidate countries must strive for equal opportunities in all political spheres, and involve issues specific to women in all social, economic and cultural areas.
It is well worth setting up public advice centres for women, which offer women on-the-spot advice, help and mediation.
Special attention must be given to employment policy.
Equal access to education and training, and in consequence of this, the same pay for the same work, is a must.
The candidate countries should also be encouraged to participate in the Community programmes for equal opportunities, and particularly those concerned with violence against women.
It is statistically proven that since the détente with countries of Eastern Europe, there has been a 10% increase in violence against women there.
Likewise, business is booming in the brutal trade in women.
Both the EU and the candidate states should now be doing their utmost to condemn and fight these forms of violence and the trade in women.
A great deal of progress has already been made, I am glad to say, but these countries must not direct all their efforts at economic harmonisation alone.
Mutual respect, consideration for, and fair treatment of, each other, must form one of the main pillars of our European Community.
