Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot afford to underestimate the importance and potential implications of this historic opportunity to unite our continent and live in peace.
As politicians, we must give this momentous process our unequivocal support, even though there are still many aspects to be discussed and negotiated.
The political vision endures.
The responsibility that we parliamentarians bear at this time must enable future generations to live in peace and freedom on our continent.
The standard of living will rise in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe as a result of a market-orientated economy, and underpinned by democratic forms of government.
Even though it will not be easily won, we have chosen the right path.
We Austrians are particularly interested in and affected by enlargement in view of our geographical position.
I personally remember the Iron Curtain only too well, because my farm was only a few kilometres away from it.
I would still much rather face the problems that have arisen as a result of opening the borders, than have to continue living with my back to the wall of the Iron Curtain, as we had to for decades.
As well as giving enlargement unequivocal support, I would stress that it should take place as soon as possible.
Agriculture, in particular, has an important role to play, because far more people are employed in this sector in the candidate countries than they are in the EU.
We must tell the candidate countries that they must make the necessary structural changes, so as to be competitive in the future market, and they must increase the number of employment opportunities available in rural areas.
The SAPARD programme provides an excellent opportunity to this end, and I welcome with open arms the fact that the Commission has already approved six programmes.
Transitional periods and arrangements should be kept as short as possible, but one thing I would stress is that the acquis communautaire must be adopted in full.
Particular attention should be given to health, plant health and, above all, the environmental conditions and issues that are so important to us as consumers, and also as farmers, so as to maintain consumer confidence.
The reform of the common agricultural policy must form an efficient basis for the multifunctional activities that the farmers perform in all areas.
The fundamental alignment of the European agricultural model and the development of the rural area will not produce a conflict of interests between the farmers of the EU and those in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
We want to solve problems together and go forward into the future together.
