Mr President, Commissioner, I come from Spanish Algeciras, opposite Gibraltar and not far from Morocco.
I have seen the fishing boats tossing in the harbour, a picture which spoke volumes, vividly illustrating the enforced inactivity of the fishermen.
Or was it, or is it, an illustration of our own incapability?
The fishermen are inactive, tired and disappointed.
For eleven months, there has no longer been an agreement with Morocco.
Mr Fischler is negotiating hard, but unfortunately without success so far.
Inhabiting, as they do, a region in any case lacking in infrastructure, the Andalusians are alarmed.
Four thousand ships lie at anchor.
The Committee on Fisheries is alarmed, too.
Who is responsible for alternative jobs in the EU?
Under which Budget heading can we pay for possible forms of restructuring?
The new Finance Agreement is of no use, and I see that mistrust of EU politicians is growing.
A serious, robust and optimistic Budget is therefore all the more necessary.
The combination of need, scope of action and flexibility is a whole new chapter.
The Committee on Fisheries takes a lot of flack.
It is very often a target of multiple attacks for financial and political reasons.
Unjustly so.
We are open to justified criticism from our own ranks, too.
However, we also want to be listened to and, in the field of employment alone, we speak for as many as 41 000 jobs, for which there are no alternatives.
Of course we are dependent upon a significant amount of imports.
It is true that the market is increasingly looking for private sales channels, but we ought not to evade our socio-economic duty.
We therefore at least need adequately worded fisheries agreements, provided that they have been assessed convincingly.
We therefore agree with the division into compulsory expenditure without reserves and into the token entry with reserves which take effect whenever we want to sign new agreements, namely those which do not come into effect until next year.
I am confident of a positive vote in this area, that is to say in the fisheries area as a whole, for I believe that only this will constitute an expression of our common political will.
