Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Lagendijkand Westendorp reports on the Agency and the CARDS programme - it is difficult to distinguish one from the other - base their proposed amendments on the experience gained from their forerunners, the OBNOVA programme and the Kosovo agency.
I think we all realise that a slimmer, more efficient structure is needed if the good work which the Kosovo Agency has carried out in recent months is to be consolidated for future purposes.
In future, responsibility must be vested in a few people, including a director, if you like, so that really one person is responsible vis-à-vis the committee which selects the individual programmes.
I think responsibility must be vested in very few people if we are to raise the profile of European work on the ground.
As we have seen in Bosnia time and again, the Americans manage to show themselves to good advantage with very limited funds.
In numerous areas, we have spent and continue to spend more money than anyone else but still we are not visible because it sort of runs through our fingers rather than being vested in any one institution.
I also feel that duplicate work by the governing board and management board and unnecessary ritual meetings of their members, where it is the director responsible who needs to take the necessary decisions on time, should be avoided.
I hope that Parliament's proposals will be accepted by the Commission and the Council.
I repeat: unnecessary expenditure on unnecessary meetings really should be cut back.
The money is desperately needed on the ground, where it can be put to better use.
If, although this was not the case with my report on the Kosovo Agency, the Council could perhaps at last learn from its mistakes, that would help the taxpayer no end.
The objectives of the CARDS programme were in fact all right.
But something important, one important objective is missing from this CARDS and that is support for education and training in these countries.
Without education and training there is nothing, which is why I am delighted that the members of all the committees have helped me to table this proposed amendment.
As I understand it, the Commissioner also takes the view that this should be an important objective in the CARDS programme.
It should also be an objective which is close the Council's heart.
I really do hope that the French Minister for Education, Jacques Lang, will be able to persuade his cabinet to ensure that the French government does not oppose the inclusion of the objective of education in the CARDS programme in the next Coreper.
I think it would be counterproductive and I am certain that Mr Lang will do his utmost and if Mr Moscovici were here, he would perhaps do so too.
So my thanks to all my fellow members who see this as an important objective and I am delighted that we shall be able to bring these countries more in the way of content in the future.
