Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to the previous speaker, I would like to say in the clearest terms that the White Paper on food safety before us today provides a springboard for action by the institutions of the European Union, for achieving the highest standards in food safety and for regaining consumer confidence.
After all, there are good reasons why we asked for this paper.
Of course, there have been very different approaches, as the discussions in recent months have demonstrated.
That is why the rapporteur deserves great praise, because he has managed to pull together very different approaches and ideas into a clear report.
There have even been widely conflicting views about the main point of the White Paper, the creation of a Food Safety Agency.
I will not deny that when the White Paper was published, I spoke out against the Agency.
If when it comes to the vote I - and I expect a substantial majority - argue in favour of this Agency, I would nevertheless advise the Commissioner not to be deceived.
There are many doubts and critical voices.
You should take Parliament's proposals seriously and concentrate the Agency's work on scientific tasks and risk analysis.
I particularly wish to stress that the Agency and the present system of advisory committees cannot exist side by side.
There must be clear arrangements governing the Agency's cooperation with the Joint Research Centre in Ispra and the Food and Veterinary Office in Dublin.
You must prevent several institutions carrying out similar work in parallel.
As regards the actual structure of the Agency, it must be clear how it is to be financed.
We in Parliament welcome and wish to encourage a financing plan.
What staff numbers are required?
What is an appropriate timetable for setting up an authority of this kind?
You should also use the White Paper to enforce strict rules in the Member States.
If the proposals for over 80 legislative measures are much the same as the hygiene rules I have now received as rapporteur, then I am very optimistic.
However, Commissioner, when it comes to the provisions on labelling, please think again about your ideas ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
