Mr President, in my committee, very few things are subject to Community law.
In other words, a great many issues are based on subsidiarity, and that is how it should stay.
Accordingly, we have confined ourselves to a handful of issues and I only intend to pick out two particular aspects.
The audiovisual sector is very important.
We have established that the candidate countries have simply not made enough effort on the legislative front, and the legal provisions governing the audiovisual media fall a long way short of meeting the requirements of the acquis communautaire.
That was my first point.
My second point is that there has also been precious little effort made to approximate the legal provisions on the intellectual property front, i.e. with regard to copyright.
We have also addressed the issue of minorities, because the integration of these minorities - including their linguistic integration - in these countries, is also of significance.
We have included a number of comments concerning the Russians in Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, and concerning the Roma in the other countries.
Criticism and questions aside though, I would also like to highlight a positive development.
In fact we have some positive feedback for you on the educational and cultural front.
For years now, we have had links with these countries through the Tempus programme, and likewise, for a year and a half now, they have been entitled to participate fully in the educational, cultural and exchange programmes for young people.
I believe we have been truly successful in building bridges here.
We must not concentrate on economic matters alone, for it is in the very areas I have mentioned that we must find common ground and build on it.
Indeed it is already there.
I would like to make the honourable members aware of how unsatisfactory it is that the exchange under the Socrates programme always involves people from Eastern Europe visiting Western Europe, and that we must encourage our young people to visit the countries of Central and Eastern Europe instead.
Only then will we truly find common ground in Europe.
