Mr President, as a member of the EU-Turkey Joint Parliamentary Committee, I take a close interest in Turkey's accession prospects.
I should like today to highlight Mr Morillon's call for a European-Turkish discussion forum in the House and for a debate on Turkey's accession prospects in the national parliaments in our Member States.
This is important for Turkey, but it is even more important for the Member States themselves and for our citizens.
Our governments agreed to Turkey's accession prospects in Helsinki.
The people of Turkey were surprised by this decision and many still fail to understand it.
This is because Turkey's own people have been offered no forum for discussion, with the result that the issue is being discussed subliminally, in ignorance and without any knowledge of the background to the Helsinki decision.
This is giving rise to an anti-attitude which we cannot afford in the Union, given the large number of Turkish immigrants already living here, and which, given the increase in xenophobia, we must not afford.
My Turkish counterparts in the Turkish Grand National Assembly are also complaining about this deplorable state of affairs in which no-one wants to talk to them openly, no-one from the national governments or parliaments and, to all intents and purposes, no-one from the European institutions.
Of course there are informal discussions, but there are, to all intents and purposes, no official meetings.
One almost gets the impression that there is a sort of gentlemen's agreement to talk about Turkey's accession only behind closed doors.
What is everyone afraid of?
Was the Helsinki decision premature?
The initial euphoria of the Council and Commission has clearly waned.
Apart from declarations of intent, so far Turkey has made no fundamental progress towards meeting the political criteria.
Consequently, there is even more need now, almost one year on from Helsinki, for Turkey's accession prospects to be debated in our national parliaments and with our citizens.
We owe it both to Turkey and to our own people, and this sort of discussion will perhaps help to integrate the Turkish immigrants already living in our midst.
