Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I really must express my surprise that the Commission has allowed a high-level Council working group to do the work that it should, in fact, have done after Amsterdam.
I think that this is a shame, although what the group has done is not wrong because it touches on the right problems and also tries to point out the right possible solutions.
As Mrs Karamanou has already said, since the opening of the Iron Curtain, which was of course drawn particularly tightly around Albania, it has been one of the most significant countries of origin and transit for immigrants entering the EU.
Obviously this creates problems.
However, we also have another problem in Albania.
A considerable number of Albanians are leaving their homeland because of the instability in their country, because of the social difficulties and because of the pre-modern structures of society and family.
They are leaving their country, and as they do so a part of the future of this country is lost.
We need to help to establish a situation in this country which will induce people to stay there, to ensure that security is guaranteed, that there are jobs there and that the people simply do not look for a way out.
Of course, we also need to prevent Albania from becoming more and more of a trade centre for refugees, drugs and trafficking in women.
It is a country in which many are involved, in which many neighbours also get their hands dirty.
That is why we need to help this country.
We will do so as the European Union.
We will train the police.
We will help them with customs, but the problem is that so much is in a mess in this country that obviously progress is only very slow, despite some efforts being made by the government.
I should like to say just one thing, Mrs Karamanou: if Albania is not a safe country of origin and we treat Albanian refugees differently from others, then neither can Albania claim that it wants to enter into a stability and association agreement with us.
It has not yet come that far, but I think that it has come further than you suggest.
For me, Albania is a country to which we can send people back.
People are not persecuted there.
All is not yet rosy either, but it is better than you have described
