Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common strategy towards the Russian Federation was the first common strategy in the history of the European Union.
That alone illustrates the importance which the EU attaches to its relations with the Russian Federation.
The dual strategy of cooperation and criticism which Mr Oostlander develops in his report is, in the opinion of my group, eminently suited to the situation in the Russian Federation.
However, this sort of strategy is a complex subject and all the institutions and the Member States must approach it in a strictly coordinated and circumspect manner.
As the Oostlander report demonstrates, this is not always easy and Parliament must ensure that it works in a very orderly fashion here.
Now to the most important points in the report: the Russian Federation is important to the Union for both security policy and economic reasons, of that there can be no doubt.
The PCA provides the necessary contractual basis here and - if it is applied fully - the instruments needed in order to react to a whole spectrum of developments.
The agreement contains a human rights clause and provisions governing the establishment of democratic rule of law.
Our economic relations with the Russian Federation have fluctuated enormously over past years, depending on various crisis situations.
But, most importantly, there is a lack of foreign investment in the Russian Federation, coupled with a huge drain on the profits of Russia companies.
Unless the Russian Federation rectifies this situation by creating, post haste, the necessary legal and security framework and hence a more friendly investment climate, there would appear to be no way out of the economic crisis, high oil prices notwithstanding.
And programmes such as TACIS can only be of limited help here - more to the point, they barely scratch the surface.
The Commission's priority task should therefore be to improve the effectiveness of the funds deployed under the programme and, more importantly, to enhance its visibility.
What is important, I think, is that it should continue to be the political responsibility of the administrative staff and should not turn into project management.
