Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the approval of the courts in Luxembourg and Strasbourg, the Convention has put together a draft Charter of Fundamental Rights which is remarkably balanced, and has delivered it into the hands of the Council.
Where does the added value of this Charter lie?
Firstly, it lies in the fact that a basic set of fundamental rights has been distilled from more than 30 legal sources which are currently in force.
Secondly, it lies in its transparency for the public, who now know what rights they have in respect of those who create and apply European law, and in its transparency for those who do precisely that, draft or apply European law.
They too now have a clear idea of the rights which they have to respect.
Thirdly, the Convention has not confined itself to restating old rights - even the Council of Europe has recognised this - but has identified new dangers in connection with old rights and included them in the text: in the areas of crime, biotechnology, data protection and administration.
The Charter therefore guarantees a greater level of protection than the European Convention on Human Rights - this needs to be said to all those who are asserting the opposite here in the plenary - and it formulates political and social rights in a balanced way.
It is the first declaration of human rights of the new millennium and the most modern charter of human rights available anywhere in the world.
It makes it clear to people that the European Union has always been a Community of values.
Even so, the EU will have to do a great deal to keep it that way.
Mr President-in-Office, I would ask you in all seriousness just to consider the following: if you now wish simply to go back to the Cologne Decision and reflect at your leisure on whether this should be incorporated into the Treaties, what encouragement will those who disregard human rights draw from the fact that we are hesitating to do this?
What Mr Baron Crespo said is right: why waste time?
All this is about, after all, is making law which is already in force more visible.
