Mr President, in itself there is nothing to object to in the basic idea of creating a European Police College, whether it exists in virtual reality or is established with a permanent seat somewhere.
The questions arise, however, of what this College is for and of what tasks and objectives it has.
To take just one point, Mr Posselt writes of 'providing training sessions for senior national police officers on the basis of common standards'.
That is when things already begin to get difficult.
What are these common standards?
As you know, Mr Posselt, police duties in the Federal Republic of Germany are a matter for the individual Länder, which are absolutely sovereign in this area.
Now, compare the various Länder' s laws on police duties.
You will see that, in Brandenburg (unlike in Berlin), de-escalation is the supreme precept when it comes to deploying police and that, under Brandenburg law, any police who are to be deployed are obliged to be identified by name so that anyone who might be attacked in a demonstration can read the name of the policeman concerned and know who it was.
In other words, if you want common standards, you have to start by defining these.
Otherwise, you end up with training that may be completely different in form from area to area.
A College along these lines is not really needed just for the purpose of exchanging different types of experience.
You speak about establishing public order.
All right, that is accepted.
Again, the only question is, with what resources?
In the Federal Republic of Germany, even public order is defined completely differently in the various Länder' s laws relating to police duties.
What do you understand to mean by public order?
You write in your report about border control services.
I ask you!
We make a perfectly clear distinction between duties relating to the protection of Federal borders and the duties of the police.
(In other States, it is different.)
If you write in those terms, then before what you say can be approved, it must first be clear what common activities are planned and according to what standards one is going to proceed.
As long as such matters have not been clarified, I have to say to you in all honesty that I myself cannot consent to the basic idea.
