Mr President, Commissioner, as Mrs Sudre rightly emphasises in her very commendable and extensive report, it is indisputable that the outermost regions have five characteristics which put them at a permanent or very long-lasting disadvantage.
Firstly, their geographical proximity to non-EU States and simultaneous membership of the European Union.
Secondly, their relative isolation because of their great distance from Europe.
Thirdly, the very small size of the local internal market.
Fourthly, geographical and climatic conditions which militate against the development of endogenous potential.
Fifthly, economic dependence upon a few products in the economy.
This inevitably leads to a situation in which these objective handicaps can, also in the longer term, only be offset, with a view to achieving cohesion, when the necessary financial resources are made available on the basis of Article 299, paragraph 2.
Through this article, the outermost regions should be so placed as not to be subject to permanent reductions in their budgets as a result of the Budget debate.
Just as you, Mrs Sudre, as the representative of the outermost regions, rightly call for solidarity, I would also request solidarity on your part where the interests of the Objective 1 regions are concerned, in the sense that no reductions in funds should be implemented for as long as the regions concerned are still handicapped in comparison with the developed regions of Europe.
The proof of the pudding is whether, in contrast to the agreement on how best to proceed expressed by most of the groups today in the Budget debate, we want to meet new political necessities not with new money but at the expense of policies which have still not been implemented.
This question will become that much more relevant the closer EU enlargement towards the East becomes.
I am convinced that it is now already clear that, without a change to the Financial Perspective, it will not be possible to solve this problem.
Allow us simply to act according to the proverb, 'Do not put off till tomorrow what you can do today.'
