Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would first like to thank the rapporteur, because I believe that he has succeeded in a remarkable way in reconciling the various interests in this House so as to formulate a position on behalf of Parliament.
Commissioner, I have been following the debate on climate change in this House since 1995.
What I have observed since then is that Parliament has made certain concessions here, but always against the tactical background that we want the country with the highest CO2 emissions to come on board as regards Kyoto.
So we have gone along with this and said that we accept emissions trading.
We are in favour of it in principle and we have made many more concessions.
At some point the hurdle will be so low that I can honestly say that I cannot lower it any further.
It will not be possible to make any more concessions.
That is why I believe that in future negotiations we should really concentrate on the idea that if the USA cannot initiate the ratification process, then we ourselves should enter into agreements with other countries, as ultimately ratification without the USA is not impossible if we are at long last to make some progress here.
We cannot keep making concessions until there are no more to be made if we are not certain that Congress will eventually give its approval.
Commissioner, I of course heard your speech about the European Climate Change Programme, the ECCP.
It was a rather bland speech about what we could all do and how marvellous that would be.
I seem to have heard a lot of bland speeches like that over the last few years!
In the end, I would far rather do battle alongside you for highly specific measures such as a switch to renewables.
There is a proposal to that effect on the table, but I wonder just what the Commission's policy really is when I see the Directorate-General for Competition frustrating this proposal to promote renewables using funds from environmental aid scheme, perhaps to the point of destroying it.
I would also like to fight alongside you to achieve a standard for low-energy housing.
And I would like to battle alongside you to achieve a tax regime to promote cars with low fuel consumption.
So how about finally forgetting those bland speeches, rolling up our sleeves and really getting something done!
