Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has discussed the question of extending the internal market to the candidate countries in a highly committed and serious manner, because an internal market between such different economic areas as the European Union and the candidate countries is unprecedented in economic history.
According to calculations in a study carried out on behalf of the Commission, it will take 35 years to halve the difference in the standard of living between the EU and the candidate countries.
Nowhere in the world is the income differential at a border greater than between the EU and the candidate countries.
Even the levels between the USA and Mexico are closer together, which is why we are in favour of a considered, flexible strategy which does justice to the challenge in the area of the internal market.
In its own initiative report, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market therefore calls for the instrument of transitional arrangements to be used in order to allow the economies to grow together harmoniously.
These interim solutions are not intended to set the status quo in stone but to act as intelligent buffers which adapt to changing circumstances.
I am most grateful to Mr Verheugen for assuring us today that eastward enlargement is being prepared carefully; he also gave the impression that he will resist political pressure when he is asked to turn a blind eye.
He has the express support of our committee there.
We welcome the progress which the candidate countries have made in harmonising with European law and we encourage them to continue this sometimes arduous and difficult work.
I must say, I personally have been particular impressed with the success of Hungary, Estonia and Slovenia here.
However, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market knows full well that merely passing laws is not enough.
They must also be applied.
European law is not just law in the books; it must also be law in action in the candidate countries.
Allow me, as a member of parliament from a region which directly borders a candidate country, to draw your attention to the specific situation which prevails there.
The average wage on the German side is about ten times higher than it is ten kilometres further on in our neighbouring towns in the Czech Republic.
The region was cut off behind the Iron Curtain and its economy is now lagging far behind.
That is why structural changes are now needed in record time and why these regions which, after all, are home to some 20 million people throughout the EU - the equivalent of a medium-sized member state -, need our support in training employees, with investments in small and medium-sized enterprises and with infrastructure.
We want to encourage the Commission to go ahead with its plan to draw up a work programme for the border regions which, as in the case of enlargement southwards, will, of course, also receive specific financial commitments.
By coincidence, there are some people from one such region - Upper Franconia - sitting in the public galleries right now.
I was talking to them just now and, to tell you the truth, these people are worried about extending their region eastwards.
It is not a question of a lack of information; it is a question of perfectly justified and specific causes for concern.
We must ensure that the people there do not experience enlargement eastwards primarily in the form of lost jobs and closing businesses.
I therefore ask for today' s resolution to clearly state to these citizens that the European Parliament hears their concerns; that way we shall also have these people' s support for the European goal of enlargement in peace and freedom.
The European Parliament must vote in favour of the accession agreements.
We stand for greater openness and greater transparency in negotiations and we expressly call on the Council of Ministers not to pursue a policy of concealing the facts as far as accession negotiations are concerned and to disclose what was discussed during negotiations.
Then people will put aside their fears and support the huge project of enlarging Europe.
