Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the attitude of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market towards this matter is quite different from that of the responsible committee, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
We believe that a whole raft of amendments to this proposal for a directive are necessary, and regret that the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy has not adopted these.
I am therefore deeply grateful to the PPE Group for having adopted these amendments here today and tabling them for further debate here in this Chamber.
I would like to comment on just two aspects.
First, we believe it is wrong that the possible liability of suppliers of services is addressed under this directive on general product safety, because we quite simply consider that issues relating to potential liability of suppliers of services have no place in this directive on general product safety, but should, if necessary, be dealt with in parallel elsewhere.
My second point is about export bans, which have previously been so highly praised.
A majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market is of the view that there is no legal basis for these.
In light of recent experience, notably the European Court of Justice ruling on tobacco advertising, I can really only urge this House to heed the recommendations to plenary of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, as the committee responsible for such matters.
Otherwise, I regard it as quite possible that the European Court of Justice will make another embarrassing ruling on this issue.
For this simple reason we have expressed a different viewpoint, and we can only advise this Chamber, on behalf of a majority of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, to accept Amendments Nos 38 or 41 in particular, as these relate to a weakening of export bans.
On behalf of my group, I would like to say that if neither of these amendments is adopted, the PPE Group believes that the entire report should be rejected, because we really have had enough of adopting illegal proposals in this place!
