Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two people here today who deserve special congratulations, one being Anna Lancker, for her outstanding report, and the other being Anna Diamantopoulou, for her outstanding submission.
It is an ambitious agenda, and I still have a clear recollection of the painfully slow progress that was made during the last legislative period in the sphere of social protection.
The Council was not even prepared to discuss the matter at the time.
What is clearly new is that we have adopted an employment policy, based on the Lisbon Decisions, indeed an employment policy that should be of a qualitative nature.
We do not want over-regulation - and I say this to the British delegate who spoke before - but the diversity of modern contracts of employment requires new forms of social protection, and not the rules of the nineteenth century.
We also stand to gain a great deal from having a constructive and effective policy mix between economic and financial policy, and, not least, from developing the social economy and the services sector.
What is not so new, and the subject of repeated demands, is lifelong learning - which is something even the smallest Member States have done something about - as are the long overdue reforms to the European factory committee law, the legal protection of nursing and expectant mothers, and freedom of movement.
I would like to raise a criticism in connection with the lack of initiatives produced in response to the new challenges we face in health and safety at work, employee participation and labour relations.
Of course, I was delighted to see the French Presidency show such commitment to the issues of childcare, family and women' s policy.
Perhaps it has something to do with the fact that all three people responsible - in the Commission, Parliament and the Council - are women.
But what we need now, in tandem with this, are instruments that allow for the involvement of fathers.
That would be a new departure.
Besides, this agenda should send out a signal to the candidate countries, and I therefore wish it every success.
