Mr President, in recent years the European Union has finalised various documents relating to the Russian Federation which form a good basis for close relations with it.
The common strategy is one of them.
Despite all its contradictions, Europeans clearly see Russia as part of Europe and have a huge interest in a stable, democratically-organised Russian Federation with good economic prospects which plays a confident part in and helps to shape international policy.
The West also needs the Russian Federation as an important international partner if Europe is to be reshaped after the change.
It is this interest which has led the Union to develop specific fields of activity in numerous areas in the common strategy towards the Russian Federation and other documents.
They include consolidating the rule of law and strengthening government institutions.
They also include developing a civil society as an important precondition to consolidating democracy.
In the economic sector, the Union is endeavouring to integrate the Russian Federation into a common economic and social area.
The Union is already the Russian Federation's most important processing, investment and trading partner, accounting for over 40%.
But there is still huge potential here.
Experts have calculated that trade between the European Union and the Russian Federation only accounts for one-third of what might be expected, given the Russian Federation's gross national product and its proximity to EU markets.
In the political sector, the common strategy towards the Russian Federation proposes entering into a standing dialogue on policy and security and creating a permanent mechanism for such dialogue.
It would be interesting to expound on this, but time is too short.
The EU sets great store in its Russian policy by environmental protection and nuclear safety.
Unfortunately, this momentum in relations between the Russian Federation and the EU has come up against a counter force - cue Chechnya, which has seriously hampered relations.
The substance and methods of the internal consolidation being pursued by the Putin regime will have a significant influence on the nature of our relations.
We can only hope that the current pragmatic and realistic partnership will perhaps one day become a real strategic partnership.
