Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me congratulate Mr Baltas very warmly on his report, in particular for the fact that he drafted it so quickly, for it was both important and correct to react quickly to the changes in Croatia as Mr Stenzel said.
I also had very good talks with members of the former government.
Some were very useful, but the whole thing always had to be seen in the context of extreme nationalism, of very sluggish cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal and a very hesitant approach to Bosnia and Herzegovina.
That has changed.
The new Croatian government has not only recognised but actually supports Europe's Balkan policy.
And that is why it was right to react quickly.
I can see no contradiction between the one-to-one relations between the European Union and Croatia and the various Balkan countries, and regional cooperation.
We need regional cooperation.
We need it, for example, with Bosnia and Herzegovina, and it is most welcome that the government has said it will support the idea of Bosnia and Herzegovina as a single state, which has not always brought it friends among the Croatians in Herzegovina.
But that is a bold, clear and definite step and it must be followed up.
In the end we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia, meaning cooperation on both sides.
On the one hand we must continue to insist that the ethnic Serbian refugees who have fled Croatia can return there, that this is not just the will of the government but can also be achieved against quite considerable local resistance in individual regions, villages and areas.
But of course we also need cooperation with Yugoslavia not just for this process but also in order to stabilise the region.
Even if we are being a little cautious and reticent at this point we and Mrs Pack is here too have told Mr Kostunica quite plainly that we must also require the new Yugoslavia, which we hope will emerge stronger from the elections on 23 December, to cooperate with the International Criminal Tribunal, to cooperate on a regional basis, to be prepared to resolve the conflicts peacefully.
My third and final comment is this.
The Zagreb summit sent out a clear message.
We in this Parliament have already incorporated the further developments clause in the agreement with Macedonia.
Now, however, we must also prepare the way carefully.
That makes the decision, or non-decision, of Nice rather disappointing: the complexity of the majority-voting system makes things difficult enough for the current round of enlargement, but they will become much more difficult when it comes to enlargement towards south-eastern Europe.
Here the Union still has much work to do.
