Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to offer my heartfelt thanks to Mr Nicholson for his excellent report.
At the same time, I would like to reassure him that I am perfectly willing to listen to fishermen, especially as I shall be in Ireland the week after next and will be fostering close contacts and entering into discussions with the fishermen there, and with the entire sector.
You are already very familiar with this proposal, so I believe I do not need to present it again here.
I will therefore move straight on to the amendments tabled and I unfortunately have to say that I have some problems with them.
There are two reasons why the Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 3 and 4, which relate to compensatory aid.
First, this document is about technical measures, and a document on technical measures is not the right place for provisions on compensatory aid.
Second, and even more importantly, there are Member States who have to decide under Regulation 27/97 whether they will offer fishermen compensatory aid for temporarily withdrawing from fishing activity or not.
The other two amendments, Amendments Nos 1 and 2, address a future review of the regulation and the Commission finds them difficult for the following reasons: first, the fact that everyone - the Commission, Member States' administrations and also fishermen themselves - want the regulation to come into force on 1 January 2001.
In my opinion, any delay in this entry into force is to be avoided.
Second, this regulation was drafted on the basis of the outcome of meetings with fishermen, scientific experts and administrators, and we intend to continue with these meetings for as long as the cod crisis continues.
This could well lead to a review of the measures and conditions to be put in place now.
So I ask you to trust us.
We will observe the review conditions in practice.
I cannot accept this amendment if the regulation is to come into force as quickly as possible.
I hope you will understand this.
