Madam President, first my heartfelt thanks to my friend and delegation leader Méndez de Vigo, who swapped places with me because I was due to head a conciliation for parliament.
The convention did a grand job.
With this result, Minister, Europe has created an awareness of its intellectual principles, which we can use to measure what holds it together at its very core.
Many new rights for children, the elderly and the disabled are mentioned, together - and I find this most interesting - with a new freedom to conduct a business which is almost tantamount to a sort of ban on socialism.
It is, to all intents and purposes.
And anyway you are social democrats, not socialists.
It is also important for me that the preamble refers quite clearly to spiritual/religious principles, because anyone who denies his roots cannot grow and if you cannot grow, you cannot blossom.
And we want a Europe which blossoms, prospers and grows, which is why we wanted and were right to refer to our roots.
So what happens next?
The Charter of Fundamental Rights is to become part of a future European constitutional treaty - a constitutional treaty, mind you, not a constitution -, in order to make it perfectly clear that the European Union is not a state, it is not a nation state; on the contrary, the European Union goes its own separate way.
The nation states still have their special position and it is they and only they which can amend the treaties through the usual ratification process.
This is what we mean when we talk of a constitutional treaty rather than a constitution.
If we are want to be credible, then we cannot apply the concepts of 19th and 20th century constitutional case law to the development of the European Union; we must develop special new concepts.
That is why we are right to say not state but union of states, Commission or Executive rather than government, constitutional treaty rather than constitution.
If we want Europe to succeed, we need to define these concepts clearly; if we want Europe to succeed, we need a streamlined Europe.
We want Europe to succeed and that means that the principles must be right, the concepts - the clearly-defined concepts - must be right, the division of powers must be right and then perhaps, at the next European elections in 2004, we will be in a position to present a constitutional treaty, a complete constitutional treaty which will win the citizens' confidence and convince the experts.
Success starts with clear concepts.
(Applause)
