Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rocard is calling on the Commission to define a framework for basic statutory health insurance systems in a Green Paper.
The logic of this is that all health care not included in this basic insurance has to be covered by private supplementary health insurance.
That means that the present statutory health insurance system, which has, up to now, been based on the principle of social solidarity, will be reduced to an "à la carte" health system.
The public would then have to invest additional and ever greater amounts in private supplementary health insurance schemes in order to pay for costly treatment that has, thus far, been covered by statutory health insurance systems.
For example, someone who is chronically ill but who has only a small income will, in future, accordingly find it very difficult to afford the treatment they need.
This simply amounts to dismantling public services and it implies turning our backs on the principle of equal health care for all based on need.
We reject this socially unacceptable reform.
Article 35 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights calls for the establishment of a universal right of access to preventative health care and for a high level of health protection to be defined and put into practice.
On this basis, the Commission should take the initiative and create solid cornerstones by way of guidelines for the Member States' health systems.
This would enable the EU to lead the way by creating a social Europe and a high standard of health care for all, regardless of income.
Rules concerning the coordination of private supplementary health insurance systems in the EU make sense as long as they involve guarantees of freedom of movement for individuals and employees.
We also support the call for a ban on genetic testing or medical examinations leading to selection on the basis of risk.
Supplementary health insurance schemes must provide protection against the risk of bankruptcy, insolvency and fraud, but should not serve as an excuse for limiting the range of services provided by statutory health insurance.
