Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must, of course, start by joining Mrs Haug in thanking all the officials and members and the Commission services, although the words do stick in my throat somewhat when it comes to the Council.
I have the honour of dealing with the minor budgets: here the procedure is relatively straightforward and we all know who has the final word.
They may treat us shabbily in Nice but to reverse everything Parliament has done, as in the case of the European Court of Justice, knowing full well that we shall correct it all again this week, is just a waste of resources and we could have helped protect the environment by using less paper.
Meeting Parliament half way would not have come amiss here and would have saved us some work, although I have no objection to the work because what I want for the future is an efficient European Court of Justice which can do its job and, more importantly, clear the backlog of translation work.
If the Council had shown itself to be more accommodating, we could have brokered an agreement back in October.
Having been allocated so little time, which is a pity because the budget - and the rapporteurs - deserve more than a derisory two and a half minutes, I must confine myself to just a few comments.
We must consider internally how all the present requirements can be developed into transparent procedures in the area of promotions policy.
I am delighted that not only the Court of Justice and the Court of Auditors but also the Economic and Social Committee and the Committee of the Regions have already started to review their promotions policy and develop a transparent, merit-based procedure in which individual performance rather than seniority is the deciding criterion.
I think that we are on the right path and, as part of the budgetary authority - in this case as the budgetary authority because the Council does not play the most decisive role here - we shall help to ensure that this continues in the future.
We here in Parliament must also check to see that our budget still meets the criteria of honesty and clarity.
Let me be quite clear here: we have a number of vacant positions here in Parliament, which save us several tens of millions of euros from one year to the next.
We must therefore consider if the whole way in which we draw up our own budget is still correct, which is why our resolutions will call on our own administration - and I hope that the House will come on board here - to submit a full report on the vacant positions in the House, so that we end up with a budget which meets the criteria of honesty and clarity.
I hope that work will progress on a European recruitment agency - or "joint recruitment office" as we call it in our very best German - so that we can jointly overcome the problems which all the institutions - the Council, the Commission, Parliament and the other institutions - will face over coming years, i.e. the problem of staffing over coming years.
I trust that we shall make real progress here.
I have overrun by one minute and it was a pleasure to do so.
Have I now been allowed more time?
If so, I shall gladly give it to the group because I only prepared for two and a half minutes and intended to overrun by one minute.
I have therefore met my personal target.
I should like once again to thank all my colleagues.
As far as the other institutions are concerned, we have worked together to achieve what I think is a good result which cuts across all party, group, country and other divides.
If the Council were prepared to follow suit next year, if it listened to Parliament more readily, it would be even easier to achieve a good result.
