Mr President, one of the principles governing the budgetary process for 2001 is that of saving money.
It is just as well, given that of the 15 Member States only 7 are likely to be able to present a positive balance sheet for the year 2000.
There is therefore little prospect of us receiving additional revenue in the form of higher contribution payments from the Member States.
We have certainly got our priorities right in Budget 2001.
To that extent, the rapporteurs are to be congratulated.
It is a fact that the unemployment rate is too high in Europe, particularly as this affects the weak members of society, i.e. young people, women and the long-term unemployed.
We must therefore support all the measures designed to boost small and medium-sized enterprises.
We need more entrepreneurs in Europe, who, in their turn, will create more jobs.
There should be no question of Europe failing to keep the promises it makes.
The truth though, is that many European politicians promise funds that they, or their committees, then fail to make available at the end of the day.
I am referring to the absolutely crucial payments required by the Balkan countries, which the Council has now cut back on.
However, it is also unacceptable that many of Europe' s priorities are financed in such a way that the poor are ultimately the ones to suffer.
It was therefore both right and important that the Council' s extensive cuts in agriculture, totalling EUR 55 million, were corrected again.
But at the end of the day, Europe' s priorities will only be financially viable in the long-term if Europe' s economy goes full steam ahead.
The tax burden must therefore be reduced in percentage terms, and only an economic upturn and accompanying economic growth will secure increased state revenue.
In addition, our administrative systems must be modernised, and it is our duty to lead by example.
I therefore hope that the newly created budgetary line - which a few people, myself included, have been critical of - for financing the European parties, is not used to award funds to those who have already squandered away funds made available at national level and are now in fact in debt.
I also hope that the conditions attached to the establishment of 400 additional service posts within the Commission will actually be fulfilled.
I hope that in the course of further negotiations with the Council these principles will actually be upheld, and that in this way, we will be able to jointly adopt a budget for 2001 that benefits the citizens.
