Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report.
She has already described the scandalous situation in which 18% of Europe's population lives below the relative poverty line.
This is not just a subject for discussion in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, it is also of concern to us in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, because these 65 million people are not only excluded from access to financial and other resources, because they are not only excluded from social and cultural rights, but because they are also prevented from using their talents to help shape our society and because they are prevented from developing their own talents, gaining additional qualifications and skills and working in jobs they are suited for.
For that reason we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs were almost unanimous in our opinion about adopting a guiding principle according to which everyone should be in a position to make an essential contribution to supporting themselves through their own work.
They should be enabled to gain and update qualifications and skills.
We know very well that the problem we are facing here will not be solved by a one-off initiative or by a single catching-up process.
No, what we are dealing with here is a permanent situation in which each new technological wave brings with it new winners and losers.
That is why we need to offer our societies mechanisms that allow those affected to find their places in society.
We consider that there are three issues here.
Social integration must be seen as a cross-cutting issue, and the results of our efforts should therefore also be included in the spring report.
Secondly, the open method of coordination must be suitable for mobilising local and regional stakeholders and enabling them to make a contribution.
Thirdly, the Member States must, at long last, as requested and initiated in Lisbon, agree on concrete targets and benchmarks, so that Parliament can carry out its role as a guardian and as an animateur in this process.
