Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me begin by thanking the four rapporteurs.
The three reports from the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism were adopted either unanimously or by an overwhelming majority in committee.
In other words, we discussed the issues objectively and arrived at a common position.
For that reason, it is important that we stand by that position.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it was very honourable of you to ask at the last minute to have the votes on two of the directives postponed so that we can still reach an agreement.
But I put it to you that this is a somewhat ambivalent move.
First of all, we in Parliament were criticised for having caused a delay.
The President of Parliament specially brought the debate and vote forward from the scheduled date in December to today's sitting.
We have had no written statement from the Council which would have enabled us even to discuss a compromise.
I believe your intentions are honourable, but we can only discuss negotiating outcomes that have been examined by the Council.
To that extent, it is impossible to change anything, because we discussed this material meticulously in our committees, and it would be impossible to hammer out a compromise wording on the various issues that are particularly awkward, to have these compromises printed in eleven languages and to discuss them with our colleagues in time for next Tuesday.
I can therefore only ask you to accept the directive and the regulation in the form in which Parliament adopts them at noon today.
That would take us as close as possible to our common goal of increasing maritime safety without delay.
The choice is yours.
On those points where you feel unable to accept our proposals, produce a common position in December.
Do not delay it in the Council.
We are prepared to negotiate on proposed compromises for the second reading from January onwards, so that the second reading will be completed early next year, just like that.
I should like to reiterate that the urgent action upon which you are now insisting is not necessary.
For example, in the case of port state control, we certainly want tighter rules, unlike the Council.
But even if we did not complete the process in December, we should certainly have taken a huge step forward, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you managed to persuade the other States and your own administration to fulfil their obligations in matters of port state control under the old directive.
So if you want to do something to improve safety at sea, recruit new inspectors, carry out stringent checks under the existing law, and we shall have achieved a resounding success.
With regard to the liability of classification societies, which is a highly complex subject, we shall have to discuss this calmly and carefully.
We have discussed the material thoroughly in committee, we have adopted our opinions by a large majority or unanimously, and Parliament should do likewise at noon today.
If you achieve the same level of agreement in December, we shall be through to the next stage.
