Mr President, personally I am pleased that following the lifting of the sanctions within the Union normal relations have been resumed, apart perhaps from a few minor exceptions which are not worth bothering with.
I can therefore attend to the subject of the Charter of Fundamental Rights with a glad heart.
People's opinions may well differ on the text which has been drafted.
They might judge it to be satisfactory or less satisfactory; they might also consider it - compared with the huge effort involved - to be rather wanting.
But they can make one objective statement: the actual aim will not be achieved for as long as this Charter is not accorded legally binding status.
Until then it will in fact do nothing more than pay lip service to these ideals.
Whether, incidentally, another Convention would be a suitable way of addressing the considerably more complex issue of a European constitution remains to be seen.
The involvement of the national parliaments is obviously to be welcomed.
Personally, however, I think it is doubtful whether a reasonable result can be achieved on this difficult issue working from such a broad basis.
As far as Biarritz is concerned, I should like to point out that it is not far from there to Nice, but neither - more importantly - is it very long now.
The question of whether the Member States will be able to agree on a new treaty in Nice is still completely open.
The attitude of the French Presidency - that they would rather have no treaty at all than a bad one - is sensible in my opinion.
However, people's views on what makes a good or bad treaty are still miles apart.
In addition, the French Presidency is not escaping criticism from leading European diplomats because of the way in which it is conducting the negotiations.
But it is precisely the conduct of this French Presidency which will determine whether especially the smaller Member States take the impression with them from the negotiations on the Intergovernmental Conference that less value is attached to their reservations and positions than to those of the large Member States.
