Mr President, we welcomed the installation, or election, of Vojislav Kostunica as the new President of Yugoslavia.
We very soon had him here before the House, as you all know, and we have naturally become aware, as he too is aware, of the dreadful legacy he has inherited, of the economic situation confronting Yugoslavia, and we hope, of course, that he will be able to surmount all these difficulties with our help.
But there is another point to be made: we must judge Yugoslavia by the same standards that we have applied to its neighbours and that we shall continue to apply to them.
That is why we simply must ensure that the problems arising there are not simply settled with a nod and a wink or put on the back burner for possible consideration in the distant future but are resolved in an appropriate manner as soon as possible.
There are still political prisoners in Serbia today; they are actually the prisoners of Slobodan Milosevic.
There is surely no reason at all why Milosevic's political prisoners of yesterday should be Kostunica's prisoners today.
Sadly, Mr Kostunica missed his opportunity, on becoming President, to free these political prisoners - the Albanians in particular, but the Serbs too.
He let the opportunity slip, but at least the Albanian political prisoners from Kosovo could have been released if he had handed them over to UNMIK in Kosovo.
In that way he would have been able to comply with Resolution 1244 and release them from Serbian prisons, and Dr Kouchner and his people would have had to take care of them.
Now President Kostunica has tabled an amnesty law, but our House is not the only place where legislation takes time, and while the legislative wheels are turning down there, hundreds of young people - innocent young people - remain in custody.
We expect this problem to be solved quickly.
We also expect joint efforts to be made so that the many missing persons - Serbs and Albanians from Serbia and Kosovo - can soon be found; whether they are dead or alive, people want to know what has happened to them.
That is the second problem.
And the last problem to which I wish to refer relates to the dreadful occurrences at the border between Serbia and Kosovo.
The fact is that we have a confrontation there between two adversaries, neither of whom has any desire for peace.
On the one side there is the Albanian UCK reserve, and on the other there is Slobodan Milosevic's secret service.
Neither side wants peace, but we must help to ensure that peace is established in that region.
