Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the measures that have been taken and the position adopted by the Commission on the European shipbuilding industry do not, in my opinion, reflect the serious and indeed critical nature of the situation in that industry, and the same applies to the transactions and outcome of the meeting of industry ministers on 5 December.
May I remind the House that the results of what has been a highly successful adjustment process are now being put at risk.
We have had a process of quantitative adjustment, in which capacities have been reduced.
We have had a process of qualitative adjustment, involving modernisation, the introduction of state-of-the-art technology and high productivity, and I can assure you, Commissioner, that shipyards are one of the areas where advanced technology is of the essence, not only information technology and related domains but production technology too.
In short, a generally successful process is now being placed in extreme jeopardy.
I also wish to remind you that many of our shipyards are in remote regions with structural weaknesses - regions that are undergoing radical adjustment processes.
Shipbuilding is often the key industry in such regions.
The process has not yet been completed, and the situation remains delicate.
Insufficient progress has been made towards diversification; consistent adherence to the present course is essential.
The line being followed by the Commission can only be detrimental to the shipyards of Europe.
Further investigations are planned, but not until next year.
So is the situation insufficiently clear?
Have there not been enough detailed analyses?
Have visits not been paid to Korea?
Has the Commission not received unsatisfactory information?
Is the present situation really so shrouded in mystery that we have to wait until May 2001 for a more detailed review?
The Commission knowingly tolerates the exposure of the shipyards in the European Union to unfair competition for almost six months.
This brings additional pressures and dangers to a situation that is already complicated.
It will inevitably push individual companies over the edge.
Allow me to make one final remark.
It is surely the height of inconsistency to proclaim such dedication to free external trade that we are even prepared to tolerate an unfair partner and yet, at the same time, to maintain internal restrictions on competition such as the artificial ceiling on our shipbuilding capacity.
Our internal and external policies are clearly at odds with each other, and this must be corrected.
