Mr President, Commissioner, domestic helps, who were formerly almost exclusively employed by more wealthy households, nowadays provide much-needed and essential support for working men and women and, above all, for single mothers and the elderly.
Demand has risen many times over in recent years, and yet this fact has scarcely been taken into account in general working life and as regards the rights and duties involved.
Just where does this activity fit into the scheme of things?
We need a legal framework that recognises domestic work, which is given many different names, as a fully fledged job in all Member States, and which provides for the implementation of appropriate labour law provisions.
A pan-European description of domestic work as an occupation is needed, bringing in the social partners, and where this does not exist employment policy guidelines should be adopted.
However, defining domestic work is certainly difficult.
Where do you draw the dividing lines with such a variety of domestic duties?
Is domestic work just cleaning or cooking, or just child care or just gardening?
The fact is that there are thousands of women who have been doing all these jobs for years without insurance cover or pension rights.
Of course, both employers and workers - generally both women - are often happy with this state of affairs, which saves money.
We need to educate people and to expand and improve the basic framework that already exists in some countries, so as to provide incentives to phase out the present grey economy.
In Austria, and especially in my own region, an EU-assisted project involving a women's advice centre acting as an agency for domestic helps has been very successfully running for three years.
Many women have been able to obtain a permanent job through this work.
In addition, as a result of this project, two or three families have often clubbed together to employ a domestic help.
What we are talking about is registering every contractual relationship between employer and employee and ultimately enhancing the work prospects of domestic employees.
