Mr President, our task in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, was primarily to assess the situation in the candidate countries with regard to the internal market and the relevant legislation.
But, as has been stressed repeatedly here today, since this concerns one of the key aspects of European enlargement, and the progress made here can only really be assessed with reference to detail, I would again express my regret that we are having this enlargement debate at a time when the Commission' s progress reports 2000 are as yet unavailable.
Only on the basis of these could we form a just impression of the progress made in the individual States.
We must therefore content ourselves with a rather sweeping assessment that probably does not give an accurate reflection of the situation in the individual States.
We can take it as read that considerable strides have been made, particularly since the last reports were published.
As Vice-President of our joint parliamentary committee with the Czech Republic, I can vouch for the fact that this is true of the Czech Republic, but I assume the same applies to a number of other States too.
The internal market is a key component in the success of enlargement and it is therefore clear to me that we must tread extremely carefully when it comes to exemptions and transitional periods.
However, in common with our rapporteur, Mr Wuermeling, I believe that it would not be in the interests of either party to the treaty for there to be no transitional periods, and being a delegate from a border region, who, like Mrs Schierhuber, owns a farm in the vicinity of the Czech border, it is a matter of concern to me that the formation of close, common economic areas should be managed without any major problems, and lead to a positive outcome on both sides.
I would like to close with a comment from the report by Mr Schröder, which pleased me enormously, and which, as I see it, also captures the spirit of what Commissioner Verheugen said at the beginning of this debate.
Although the following statement by Mr Schröder only relates to the Czech Republic, I believe the same applies across the board: 'Many weaknesses that are still discernible in the Czech Republic are the legacy of decades of dictatorship.
This being so, politicians from the part of Europe which after the Second World War enjoyed a happier fate, - and this is particularly true of Austria - would be well-advised to be moderate in their criticism of the countries such as the Czech Republic.'
