Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many thanks to Nicholas Clegg also for his hard work.
To give one light-hearted example, his compromise proposals reached me when I was on the way home on the motorway.
Of course I pulled over, in accordance with the law, and then discussed them further with him.
This shows how we worked on this and I think that this was superb.
We are also willing to do this again in future, but we could do with a bit more time now and again to discuss particular points in still greater depth.
Our political objective was to enhance competition and so smooth the path to the information society.
This regulation is intended to achieve a marked improvement in competition in the local access network, with the aim, for example, of giving Internet services better access to the mass market, so that market penetration will increase.
This initiative will ultimately also help to promote the information society.
But quicker and cheaper Internet access without content is worthless.
Above all, the information society must mean investment in people and their skills.
One important point is that the regulation regulates in the spirit of the original telecommunications liberalisation, that is in an asymmetrical way.
This has certainly demonstrated its value when it comes to improving competition.
But this regulation will be superseded in future and we will move on to a new regulatory framework under competition law.In view of that, I would say that Amendment No 13 is particularly important, as it provides for a new Recital 10(a) which emphasises once again that a new regulatory framework will replace this regulation in the not too distant future.
Of at least equal importance is the fact that the Council is not holding up the telecommunications regulatory package.
I also trust that the Council will adopt it soon and that we will continue the consultation procedure on the rest of the package quickly and in a serious manner.
I hope that the Council will not leave us in the lurch should one or other Member State perhaps still have reservations.
Our work should set an example here.
We have reached agreement quickly and effectively, and I hope that the Council will follow suit.
