Mr President, the Commission was entrusted with the task of investigating the effectiveness of the European works council.
The European works council has become more and more important: in 1994 there were 40, and in 2001 there are 650.
In this respect, the European works council has promoted a European awareness outstandingly well and has furthered the interest of employees in transnational measures and in acts of solidarity in exactly the same way.
However, there are problems; this we learnt during the hearing in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
It is totally unclear what is meant by appropriate information.
How can employees cultivate alternative plans if they receive information far too late?
For example, if a radical restructuring of the company is envisaged, an enhanced consultation procedure must be provided.
Moreover, the European works councils usually meet once a year.
At least two meetings a year, if not three, should take place.
The European works councils must be able to get to know each other better.
They must also understand the different mentalities.
The former is the condition for promoting solidarity and ensuring sustained action, and as always women are seriously under-represented.
Women do not even make up 10% of European works councils.
A great deal of motivational work is needed within the companies in this regard, and this must be expressed practically in votes later on.
I have spoken with many works councils - also within my constituency.
It is particularly important for them that we offer more training opportunities to compensate for language difficulties.
I expressly agree with Mr Menrad, who is in favour of language courses for EWC members.
Investment in training of employees is also essential - and I am thinking here of accounting regulations, employment law, social law - and we must work towards being able to say: What shall be on the agenda?
The protection of health, the necessity of dealing with safety at work or the issue which Mr Menrad is always pursuing: employee participation.
The rapporteur succeeded in including 75 proposals from the Committee on Employment and other proposals from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy and the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
Indeed, he knew how to build bridges with us in the Committee, and 38 out of 38 were in favour.
May tomorrow' s vote be just as successful!
