This package to increase safety at sea is a reaction to the accident with the Erika on 12 December 1999.
Despite the fact that a plethora of Parliament's proposed amendments have been adopted, such as the exclusion of classification societies with some form of business, personal or family links to the shipowner or operator, greater transparency by requiring classification societies to ensure that all relevant information is made available to all interested parties on their websites, scrutiny of classification societies where the accident rate recorded by the ships classed is excessively high, the Council and Parliament still disagree on two very important points, which is why a conciliation procedure would appear to be in order if the recommendations before us, which we support, are accepted.
Firstly: the European Parliament proposed that ceilings should be placed on the financial liability of classification societies in the event of an accident caused by wilful act, omission or gross negligence in their survey work.
The Council was in favour of a regulation which allowed the Member States to set the maximum amounts payable, with the amounts set by Parliament here as minimum, not maximum amounts.
Secondly: the Council has not accepted that there should be regular, mutual consultations between recognised organisations with a view to guaranteeing that their technical standards are equivalent to the provisions of IMO Resolution A.837 (29) and that the Commission should be provided with regular reports on fundamental progress made on these standards and their willingness to cooperate with port state control administrations.
As my group is positive that a common standpoint can be found for both outstanding problems, we feel that a conciliation procedure would be in order.
van Dam report (A5-0151/2001)
Fatuzzo (PPE-DE).
Mr President, as you can see, sometimes the Pensioners' Party gains fresh support from people as important as the Members of the European Parliament, even if only for explanations of vote on individual measures.
I hope that Mr van Dam's report will receive just as much support.
I voted for this report, which establishes a regulation on the safety of the carriage of goods by road and the safety of drivers who drive international heavy goods vehicles in Europe.
The report also says that it is essential for the salaries and working conditions of drivers in Europe to be standardised, so as not to distort competition.
However, that means that, in order to prevent distortion of competition, the rules governing pension contributions should also be standardised, and drivers' pensions should be standardised too.
Therefore, what is stopping us from giving the European Union the competence to regulate the salaries and pensions of all Europeans?
