Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank Commissioner Busquin for presenting this opinion.
I believe that Commissioner Busquin bears a heavier burden of responsibility than anyone else in Europe at the present time.
The main objective in the context of the BSE crisis is to restore consumer confidence, which we can only achieve by means of objective research, by means of evidence from scientists that the foodstuffs we consume are absolutely safe.
For that reason, I believe that the whole question of BSE, which covers biotechnological and genetic research, is an important and central issue.
As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I am even in favour of our making a special allocation without delay for BSE-related research, because I believe that research is the only truly important contribution that we can make to the clarification and solution of this problem.
Secondly, small and medium-sized businesses are one of my main areas of concern, and I can only endorse the rapporteur' s view that we should move from 10% to 15% and that funds should be earmarked for companies with fewer than 250 employees.
I would also add, however, that provision should perhaps be made for a second threshold for cooperation between large and small companies, research establishments and university institutes.
We should insist that the knowledge of large companies and the research findings of scientific foundations and institutions be passed on to the universities and recycled from there into the business world through incubators in order to create new jobs and new businesses.
We know that the market is particularly keen on small and medium-sized businesses that are innovative and produce highly marketable products.
We should, however, work hard to shift responsibility for the achievement of the aforementioned aims to the national level, because another aspect of the research guidelines is, of course, the idea of dividing up large projects and making them accessible to small businesses too.
