Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Angelilli, for her report, and I would also like to express my thanks for the work done in our committee, which approved this particular report unanimously.
I believe that it is only by acting in unison that we can make progress in the battle against crime.
This report provides us with a basis for establishing an efficient network which will allow us to fight crime across Europe in a coordinated way, but without limiting our scope for action.
This is not an attempt by the European Union to arrogate powers to itself, but rather to optimise the exchange of information between the relevant authorities in the Member States.
Over and above this objective, the report also deals with the involvement of civil society organisations, universities and European institutions such as Europol and Eurojust in the crime prevention network.
This is something we would like to see because it saves reinventing the wheel in terms of crime prevention in each individual Member State, so that available resources are used better.
We welcome this.
This crime prevention network is also important in other respects.
The network will provide the Council and the Commission with the information they need to draw up appropriate crime prevention strategies.
This is to be welcomed, because it will give the various national authorities a greater interest in exchanging information with the network, not least because they will be able to air their concerns at European level.
This will also significantly speed up the process of coordinating national strategies.
When it comes to organised crime and modern forms of crime, this is particularly welcome, as the national authorities often complain that criminals have the upper hand, because these authorities cannot react quickly enough to evolving trends and types of criminality.
This will enable us to create a network providing universal information, greatly improving reaction times in crime prevention.
The network is also very important as regards the candidate countries, as it can help to get a better handle on the problems that can result from transition periods.
We will therefore be voting for the report with our own amendments, and we are very pleased that those responsible for implementation are finally getting the support they need from Parliament and the Council.
