Mr President, Commissioner, you have given us a most impressive overview of the measures adopted by the Commission.
We have the impression that it comes rather too late.
Perhaps these measures should have been adopted in "peace-time", if I can call it that.
But the Commission - and some Member States as well - showed a striking lack of concern about the danger posed by the disease, and it would also seem that no one took the precaution of developing a common strategy to combat it.
We had the impression that the politicians were falling over themselves with radical demands and instructions, but none of them offered a particularly effective response to the outbreaks.
But, of course, the key question now is: culling or vaccination?
Let me make it clear to the House that it is not a matter of resuming a regular programme of preventive vaccinations.
No, the question is whether the outbreak can now be contained through emergency "ring" and suppressive vaccinations.
And what happens to the animals after they have been vaccinated?
That is another question.
You have authorised the vaccinations, but only on condition that the animals are slaughtered afterwards.
You were rather circumspect in your speech today, so let's be frank about it: this is an absolute scandal.
Healthy vaccinated animals do not need to be slaughtered to curb the epidemic, they can be returned to the economy.
There are a number of countries which have proved that it is possible to pursue an export policy even though they have cases of foot-and-mouth disease at home.
Argentina is a case in point, with its trade with the EU and other countries.
But they do not export the disease.
What we expect from you - and I hope that tomorrow's resolution will bear this out - is that you will not present us with endless arguments about why the cull is necessary: I have heard quite enough of them from your subordinates.
Endless imagination is used to justify the culling - yet in reality, very little imagination is needed to break away from this fixation with slaughter.
I expect you to explain to us how you intend to negotiate at international level in order to enable us to achieve a sensible policy on how to combat the epidemic while continuing to trade with third countries.
We must finally overcome this contradiction: the two things must be possible, trade and a sensible policy on the disease.
Vaccination is not just an emotive issue ....
(The President cut the speaker off) (Applause)
