I voted against the Trakatellis report, my reasons, which also apply to my fellow CSU members from Bavaria, being as follows: the European Community is still not responsible for health policy and can therefore only coordinate.
Parliament calls in its text for a "Health Coordination and Monitoring Centre" (HCMC) to be set up, operated and extended.
We vehemently rejected this because this is a matter for the Member States.
In addition, there is a series of calls which go against the principle of subsidiarity, such as recommendations for school education programmes, quality standards applicable to health and training and further training.
The text adopted by Parliament also contains no specification that the limited funds available should be used in a sensible and targeted manner.
Stauner report (A5-0112/2001)
Fatuzzo (PPE-DE).
Mr President, I voted for the Stauner report, although I would have liked to have been able to be more whole-hearted about it.
Why is that?
Because, when I meet the pensioner, Mr Rossi, in Bergamo, he always asks me: "What do you do at the European Parliament?", and the pensioner, Mr Verdi, asks me every afternoon: "You spend so much money: where does it all go to?", and so on and so forth all day long.
My life is one continual question from citizens and pensioners, in particular, asking what we spend Europe's money on.
What I want, therefore, is for us to ensure, in future, that we monitor all this money we spend as well.
Of course, we do spend it wisely, but what on?
Let us therefore verify whether this money is used to bring practical benefit to the European citizens.
Blak report (A5-0113/001)
Fatuzzo (PPE-DE).
Mr President, I voted against the discharge to the Commission for the 1999 financial year.
Why is that?
Because I hope that the Commission will make much, much greater efforts.
But to do what?
To resolve the problems of pensioners and elderly people in Europe.
And how?
In totally the opposite way to that which I regret to say is continuously advocated, not just by the Commission, but also in this House and by the Council.
I should like to make it clear in this explanation of vote that workers do not want to work forever: they want to reach the point where they can receive a pension soon, a good pension which is enough to live on, in order to make way for young people.
The Pensioners' Party is totally against any attempt by the European governments or Europe to extend the length of citizens' working lives.
Rather, we are calling for the length of time spent working to be reduced and the length of time spent at leisure, when it is not obligatory for citizens to work, to be increased.
