Mr President, the proposal for a regulation creating a rapid reaction facility is one of those which are founded on thoroughly laudable intentions but which are liable to fail as a result of red tape and turf wars.
The European Union has played a rather unconvincing role hitherto in the realm of rapid reaction and conflict resolution.
The reason for this does not seem to lie so much in a shortage of manpower or financial commitment as in a failure to manage, plan and coordinate initiatives and activities.
Be that as it may, the declaration of intent to become more active in the resolution of conflicts and in crisis management must be interpreted as an important step in the right direction.
The EU has sometimes done marvellous things to improve the situation in crisis-torn areas, especially with financial resources.
But money is no substitute for political will and political influence.
If the EU wishes to play a more prominent role in future, it must have the political will to involve itself more actively in the implementation of appropriate measures.
I am only the representative of a small country, but I can assure you that Austria, with its long tradition of neutrality and non-alignment, has amassed a particular wealth of experience in the domains of political mediation and crisis management, which makes parties to a conflict more willing to accept it as a mediator.
Perhaps this is one of the very areas in which the EU should be making greater use of the experience of its smaller countries.
Crisis management and mediation attempts are not so much about huge financial resources and large bloated organisations as about the trust that warring parties are prepared to place in an offer of intervention.
And this is precisely where the EU has been failing.
We have an image problem in the eyes of the parties to the numerous conflicts in the world today.
That cannot be surmounted with new administrative units and financial plans alone.
What is really lacking is a credible desire to assume greater global responsibility in the realms of mediation and crisis management.
