To my astonishment, the next speaker is Mr Ferber for two minutes.
Ferber (PPE-DE).
Mr President, it is your job to chair the debate, not proclaim your astonishment.
Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has presented us with a tough programme of work for 2001, leaving us in no doubt as to the fact that it is hard-working and that it wants to be hard-working.
But just seeing what else has to be done this year, merely in order to clear the backlog from 2000, i.e. from last year's programme of work, and I am already worrying that we will have carry-overs at the end and hardly any time left for new initiatives.
In other words, you should have anticipated the need to focus on the fundamental issues to be worked out in the post-Nice process, namely the division of powers, and seen if you as the Commission, as the institution with the right of initiative in the European Union, could set a good example here.
That way you would not need to carry so many subjects over to the following year, or even the year after that, and the people would realise just what important decisions are taken in Europe as a whole.
I really would urge you - and I have read everything that you have proposed very carefully - to check if any of the subjects within the framework of a sensible division of powers are perhaps not absolutely necessary.
There is a second point that I should like to touch on because I am a dyed-in-the-wool supporter of representative democracy.
I am a little concerned about your approach to new governance.
What I should like to know is what role an elected parliament, which must answer for itself, including to its citizens at home, has in relation to associations which have no such responsibility.
It is here at European level that endless representatives of associations keep popping up and beating a path to our offices and one sometimes wonders exactly who has accredited them back home, whom exactly they are representing here in Europe.
Surely the purpose of this new approach cannot be to give those with no credentials a say and to undermine those with credentials, namely us here in the European Parliament, in the process.
President.
My dear sir, I think you misunderstood me earlier.
The cause of my astonishment was merely your speaking time, not you personally.
