Mr President, my thanks to all the honourable Members for their constructive cooperation and, above all, to the Commission and the rapporteur, Mr Boselli.
Numerous problems, numerous conflicts of interest have still not been resolved.
Harmonising cultural traditions is no easy task.
A compromise does not really satisfy anyone and the European Parliament does not hold a magic wand.
There is talk of a balanced common position.
A balance between whom?
Between rightholders and the public interest.
First and foremost - and this is my opinion and the opinion of the Greens - the rightholder's status under copyright law must be strengthened.
Copyright law must serve the rightholder.
His position must be strengthened for future contract negotiations.
As a politician for culture, my responsibility is, firstly, to give rightholders a secure basis for their existence and, secondly - and I do not mean secondarily but equally - to guarantee the public free access and, at the same time, ensure that high-quality works are available to the public in all their diversity.
We are opposed to extending the list of exceptions; some of the contentious points can perhaps be resolved between the parties, because we too are keen to find a satisfactory solution which we can all live with.
The Greens, you may have noticed, confined themselves to proposed amendments which relate solely to the rightholder - I refer to Amendments Nos 34 and 36.
Perhaps, you will say, they anticipated future contracts.
Allow me now to reply: much is anticipated in the recitals which is of benefit not to the rightholder author but to other interested parties.
And as the Napster case has already been raised, Europe should discuss whether or not it wants a miniature version, a European Napster, and then it should hold a round table discussion between providers, producers, rightholders and consumers.
But I would not want Napster to find its way to Europe, in through the back door simply because copyright law is weak and the wording woolly.
This too is a possibility which we should debate.
We shall also have to hold a discussion at some point in the future - soon, I hope - on performing rights societies and on the possibility of contracts for copyright contract law.
