Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Purvis, the rapporteur.
He has presented a remarkable report and drawn attention to the great potential of biotechnology.
We note that biotechnology is unable to develop that great potential particularly well in Europe.
There are a number of hindrances to it in the European Union.
The greatest one in my opinion is the de facto moratorium on the release of genetically modified organisms.
We do not investigate which plants or organisms are particularly dangerous and therefore should perhaps not be approved; instead we do not approve any at all and no distinction is made between different organisms.
This arrangement was a problem from the start.
There was never a proper basis for it in law, and now it is even more of a problem because the Council and Parliament have adopted new rules for the release of genetically modified organisms, and I cannot understand why some Member States still do not want to end the moratorium.
It is particularly harmful to small and medium-sized enterprises that are unable to transfer their work abroad.
We have good rules for release and we can therefore end the moratorium now.
I believe the dangers of green gene technology are much overstated.
I also believe the prospects for medicinal use are overstated, that things are being painted in black and white - genetic changes in farming are bad, in medicine they are per se good.
I think there are opportunities and risks in both, and that is also what the report says in item 32.
Now that we have good rules for plants, we also need good common rules in medicine.
There is room for improvement there.
I also believe that we must set ethically-based limits for gene technology and biotechnology.
We have already gone some way towards that in Europe and there is now a Committee on Human Genetics that must look particularly at this area again, because Europe is a community of values.
This does not mean that we have to have the same laws everywhere, that we harmonise everything, but we must agree in Europe, too, on certain basic principles and I would like to press for that strongly.
