Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I too have to pour some cold water on the matter, since as I see it the Swedish presidency failed in two ways, because it did not manage to settle the dispute between two Member States over Gibraltar and thus free up the logjam in European air transport policy.
The public finds it incomprehensible that although important legislative projects like the one on increased compensation arrangements for overbooking in passenger air transport was negotiated in Council, they have not been adopted.
It is just as incomprehensible that important legislative initiatives like the creation of a single European sky are already blocked within the Commission.
Mr President-in-Office, this would have been a good example of an area where the Council could have done something, because everyone knows that disputes like the one over Gibraltar cannot be settled at ministerial level, between transport ministers.
It is a job for the top man, but in this case the top men have failed on two counts.
I do hope at least that the minutes of the Göteborg Summit are factually correct.
I say that because the Göteborg minutes say that the Council hopes that this dispute over Gibraltar can be settled over the next few weeks.
So we are keen to see if a result will be forthcoming at least two weeks after the Swedish presidency.
Commissioner, I also have a request for the Commission, an urgent appeal in fact.
The Commission absolutely must adopt the legislative initiative on the creation of a single European sky before the summer break and forward it to the Council and Parliament.
You know as well as we do that the many delays, the incidences of planes circling above the ground, are not just annoying for the public, because of delays in reaching their holiday destinations, and because of business appointments that cannot be kept.
It is also expensive.
You know just as well as we do that the ridiculous combustion of air fuel in the sky is environmentally unacceptable.
That is why we need a sensible European system to bring an end to these delays.
We look forward to seeing your proposal on this before the summer is out.
