, Chairperson of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Mr President, it is amazing that the follow-up report on the discharge seems to be generating far more interest this time than the discharge itself, which was, in fact, prepared by the previous Parliament.
I welcome this with open arms, but there is nothing new in the fact that we have compiled such a report and are sticking to it, as we vowed to at the time.
Yet I believe we have done justice to our task of verifying whether the Commission has met our demands in relation to the discharge.
I am extremely pleased that the rapporteur has taken all these issues up again and would like to congratulate her to this effect.
However, I am also delighted to be able to tell the Commission that it has fulfilled these demands extremely well.
We are talking conditions, and not just comments.
However, there are still a few matters to be resolved.
This is also clearly brought out in the report, by the way.
I would single out the closure of accounts for special mention in this respect.
It is truly alarming when we put in excess of EUR 70 billion to one side, which inflates the budget and is then unavailable for other tasks that the EU has set itself.
We must do more to tackle this than just compile a report once every two years; we need to cut back.
Commissioner, this is a matter for you.
Secondly, I do not think much to the idea of setting up a second office for internal investigations.
We have set up OLAF and ought to concentrate far more on ensuring that OLAF is able to carry out its work properly and in an independent manner, particularly its internal investigations.
I believe it is important for us to uphold the demand that we raised during the discharge process, namely that of creating a disciplinary chamber, which could be attached to the Court of Auditors or the Court of Justice.
I would remind the Commission not just to issue statements on this, but also produce a legal basis.
Finally, I would like to say a big thank you for the efforts made in respect of the Gaza hospital.
I was there myself.
I am delighted that after all these years, it has at long last started work and is evidently serving the people well.
