Mr President, Commissioner, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur for his report, but also the Commission for the proposal, which it presented at relatively short notice.
We should not forget that three-quarters of all freight transport in Europe continues to take place by road and working conditions remain a major problem, because they not only have direct economic effects, they also have an impact in terms of security policy.
The market is distorted by so-called social dumping.
In an environment where competition is unregulated - such as we unfortunately have on our roads - only large transportation companies still have a chance of survival in the medium term.
In any case it is becoming more and more difficult for small transportation companies as the competitive struggle is tough and sometimes it is at the cost of safety, and at the cost of driving and rest times, but also at the cost of proper employment relationships.
It is this that we have dealt with and resolved partially in this proposal.
The introduction of driver attestation is an initial response, and although it goes some way to solving the problem, it is still only a partial solution.
Let us not forget that many hauliers from adjacent third countries exploit the situation and certain authorisations - be it CEMT licences or bilateral authorisations - to operate with poor social conditions and low wages.
We are therefore called upon to go further than this report and deal with this issue if we are serious about transport, working conditions and especially if we are serious about road traffic safety.
The rapporteur has suggested limiting the scope of this regulation to drivers from third countries.
The opinion of the Commission - and I think this is very good - was that this should be extended to all drivers.
Perhaps the amendments before us are a healthy compromise, because we can include third countries in a first phase and extend it to all drivers in a second phase, as we consider this to be a general and useful measure for all drivers.
This also makes it possible to divide the administrative burden between two levels.
As someone who lives in a border municipality, I know personally that there is quite a lot of checking to be done in this sphere at the internal European level too.
And soon, when we have the new tachograph and the card, we can also introduce an integrated system of control that could take into account both social and safety aspects.
We therefore propose that we should work in these two phases and hope that the countries will recognise, as with all regulations, that any regulation is only efficient if the control mechanisms too are efficient.
