Madam President, I do not know who Mr Schulz was speaking for.
I clearly recall that the Vice-Chairman of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mrs Napoletano, stated, during the Brussels session on 28 February, that this was not a debate for the European Parliament.
So first of all, Madam President - and I speak on behalf of the entire Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats - I should like to say that you have behaved quite correctly in this matter, and you have the full confidence of our Group.
That is the first point.
(Applause from the right)
Secondly: Mr Schulz, there has been correspondence between the Chair of your group and the President of the European Parliament.
I assume that your contacts with your group Chair are such that you are aware of this correspondence.
You also intervened in Brussels, and so the President supplied the necessary answers.
In essence, what you are trying to do, two months before the elections in Italy, is to engage in electoral posturing in the European Parliament in order to give a boost to your socialist friends in Italy!
(Applause from the right)
Mr Schulz, you were a bad loser in Austria, you and your party friends, and now you are up to the same tricks in Italy.
If that is what you want, you can be sure that we here in the European Parliament will be your most determined opponents.
(Applause from the right) Mr Schulz, let me get to the crux of the issue.
Instead of interrogating the President for the umpteenth time on this affair, I wish you would put the same questions to your ally Mr Cossuta in Rome, an old-fashioned Stalinist who never fails to support this government in Rome.
Why do you not ask him the same questions you are asking here, to the disadvantage of our party friends in Italy?
Mr Schulz, I also have information which shows that there is a very wide range of opinion on this issue within your Group.
That is quite plausible and entirely natural, but let me tell you that if you do not observe this Parliament's long-standing tradition that no national election campaigns are conducted here, and if you insist on adopting this new approach instead, you will get the proper response from us.
(Applause, heckling)
