Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mrs Hulthén for presenting her report on sustainable development, which she produced under great pressure of time and difficult circumstances.
The PPE-DE will support the report.
It contains important emphases for environmental policy.
We are not, however, really in agreement with the wording on every point.
In the matter of what it says about economic and social policy, in particular, it would have been good if we had had more time also to discuss them with the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
If, for example, in item 32 we are calling for a minimum income and talking about access to essential services, that should not have its place in a report on environmental policy that has actually been prepared only by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, but only after intensive discussion with the Social and Economic Committees.
I also regret - and it was no doubt also due to pressure of time - that we have taken up only one point on the development policy aspects of sustainable development, because anyone who has looked into sustainable development and the Rio process knows that development policy is a key part of the entire issue.
I think more could have been said about that.
That is not, however, a recrimination, because it was simply difficult for Parliament to cover everything properly under such pressure of time.
One point in the report and in what Commission President Prodi said about sustainable development has caused quite a stir in Germany.
It is found here in items 21 and 22 of this report.
It concerns the removal of environmentally harmful subsidies, especially on coal.
I personally believe that it must indeed be our aim in the long term to completely abolish environmentally harmful subsidies.
However, I think we must be very cautious about specifying a date in the very near future.
If the PSE Group is calling for an end to them before 2005 in its forthcoming report on the Sixth Environment Action Programme, that will lead to mass redundancies and then we will certainly not achieve the objective sustainably.
I therefore believe we should clearly state the objective, there is no dissent about that, but we should also give thought to alternative employment...
(The President cut the speaker off)
