Mr President, thank you for the warm reception.
Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Belgian presidency comes at a time when the European Union is at a crucial crossroads.
Rarely, in my opinion, has a presidency taken office in such a difficult situation, where there are nevertheless so many opportunities on offer.
This is the presidency which must shape the future face of Europe: it must steer the post-Nice process, which will have to be concluded in Laeken, and at the same time it must also set the necessary preparations for the enlargement of the European Union in train.
A link must also be established between the two.
This means that an important point is being made to President Prodi, namely that following the Irish referendum we need to keep a further option open and consider how enlargement can be achieved without Nice, and without enlargement being delayed as a result.
This must remain an option so that we do not put the accession countries into a state of uncertainty.
I am delighted, Mr President-in-Office, with your proposal for a convention, or whatever you would like to call it, because this paves the way - and I am sure that you will make this a reality in Laeken - for the European Union to find a new method of working which will take us away from the routine of intergovernmental conferences hitherto.
This convention will move the preparations for the intergovernmental conference onto a political level, and this will allow us to seek solutions and a means of having a treaty which the public understand, a treaty in which the division of responsibilities is clear to the public, so that the drawbacks and rewards which it has to offer can be articulated by the public and so that, above all, we have a Union of 27 Member States which is capable of making decisions.
I am also particularly pleased that you mentioned the Council in this context, which will have to be active as a legislator, as a second chamber, and - crucially - in public, so that in this way we really can foster public involvement in the decision-making process.
At the same time, in the light of what is happening in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, it is important for this presidency that, where foreign, security and defence policy is concerned, we move away from the 'too little, too late' and finally make the necessary decisions to ensure that we do not have to face military conflicts of this kind again.
