Mr President, I am delighted that this report has been put before the House.
Especially with my being an entrepreneur, I would like to congratulate the Commission on having brought out, to excellent effect, what is lacking in Europe.
What it boils down to is that there is not enough start-up capital available for people who want to set up in business, and so numerous young entrepreneurs have to give up again prematurely.
Exports constitute a risk of course, and so it is particularly important for joint ventures to receive financial support in the early stages, more than at any other time.
The guarantee system serves to ensure that not everyone who is willing to become an entrepreneur automatically jeopardises his livelihood in the process and faces the risk of financial ruin, at the very least, for the rest of his life.
When we consider that approximately EUR 7 billion is available in risk capital in Europe, whilst in America the figure stands at EUR 12 billion, then we ought to give thought to how we can make good the difference.
What steps can we take, particularly as regards agriculture?
The very word BSE ought to inspire us to reflect on what kind of young enterprises we could establish in order better to guarantee food safety, carry out blood tests, develop treatments and so on.
Urgent action is called for here.
I would also like to stress that it is important for young entrepreneurs to be given a commitment they can rely on as speedily as possible.
Deadlines should be set by which a decision must be given in the form of a clear 'yes' or 'no' , so as to avoid any unnecessary risk.
It is also important to apply the directive on tackling default in payment, so that people actually get their hands on the money within a set period of time.
There is still too much hesitancy on this score for my liking.
The Commission should submit proposals on project management, develop best practice methods, introduce benchmarks, on the basis of which it will be possible to examine how much time elapses between the first application and the successful creation of jobs.
It also needs to monitor payment flows, and finally, promote the entire strategy in the public arena.
When it comes to PR, one idea would be to have a 'young entrepreneur of the year' prize, awarded to the entrepreneur who has created the most jobs in absolute terms and in percentage figures.
This would demonstrate at European level, and correspondingly in the Member States, that we are going the right way about this.
