Mr President, both of these regions of the world, the European Union - or Europe - and Asia have opened up channels between each other and moved closer together.
As sensational as the first ASEM Summit was, relations in very many areas are in fact now perceived as normal.
It is particularly when I think of cultural relations and of the very fruitful work of the Asia-Europe Foundation in Singapore that I sometimes realise that there are more encounters involving schools, students, scientists and also managers than involving politicians.
That is why I should like to recall once more here that this European Parliament once said - and on one occasion it also made this a reality - that in the same way that there was a summit between governments there should be a summit between parliaments.
I believe that it is absolutely essential for contacts between parliaments in Europe and Asia to be intensified and that, before the next ASEM Summit in Copenhagen at the latest, we should put in place a stringent process to monitor these important joint political initiatives, even if some of them are based on conflicting principles.
I really believe that this is essential because both regions are playing an important part in reforming the United Nations and also the World Trade Organisation.
It is also in both regions' interests for progress to be made on security for their people and mankind in general.
I am thinking here both of food safety and the fight against organised crime.
There really is no limit to the forms which cooperation might take here, and in this respect Europe really needs to move forward.
We are fortunate to have been able to initiate a process of reflection on security policy in ASEAN and throughout the Asian area.
A further matter which is of concern to me is that we should help to combat trafficking in human beings.
We are now faced with a situation where millions of people have been abducted, and they are no longer only women and children but also men.
I think that both regions of the world have a responsibility here to put an end to this form of freedom of movement on this earth.
