Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in general, the Commission' s proposal for a regulation on a voluntary labelling programme is to be welcomed, and Mrs McNally has produced an excellent report on it.
Consumption labelling is, in my view, an important free-market instrument for promoting the use of energy-efficient equipment.
The energy-star label should help to promote energy efficient standby equipment.
The energy-saving potential of this equipment cannot be underestimated, and by introducing such a label the European Union will be providing the impetus needed to encourage people to use energy more sparingly.
Saving energy goes hand in hand with reducing carbon dioxide emissions, as agreed under the Climate Protection Agreement.
I think it is all the more likely to succeed if applied just about globally to office equipment.
This would give us a joint labelling scheme, not only with the USA but also, indirectly, with Japan and some other countries.
In this way, we would be taking account of the global market, which would help remove barriers to trade.
The fields of telecommunications and information technology would seem to be particularly important in this respect.
I think it is of the utmost importance for national experts on energy policy, as well as other interested parties, to be involved in setting up the European Union Energy Star Board, so that national interests can be properly represented.
The Energy Star Board will be required to draw up a report on the market penetration of products bearing the Energy Star logo.
Given the rapid pace of technological development in office and telecommunications equipment, I think yearly intervals would be appropriate.
That is the only way to ensure that the label is only used to distinguish those products which consume markedly less energy than the average for all similar equipment on the market.
Against this background, I urge you to support my opinion, which is appended to this report and which was adopted in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
