.
Mr President, Mrs Haug, ladies and gentlemen, just now we were talking about the expenditure side of the budget, and we are now briefly discussing the revenue side, although only on a statistical basis, that is in relation to the European system of integrated economic accounts.
This data, which is collected via the integrated economic accounts system, is used for various important purposes, such as the own resources ceiling, the calculation of gross national product, the share according to which Member States' contributions are collected and for determining Member States' payments to the VAT-based own resource.
The legal basis that we are discussing now relates to the last of these.
What we are talking about now is instead of using the old 1975 basis to use the new statistical basis so as to avoid statistical double counting or costly re-accounting procedures that lead to many errors.
Here in Parliament this has been dealt with by the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
The latter supports the Commission proposal without reservation, whereas the Committee on Budgets has now formulated various amendments.
Amendments Nos 2 and 3 do not relate to this proposal concerning the statistical basis.
Amendment No 2 requests a document on the collection of own resources and Amendment No 3 calls in particular for the trialogue to consider own resources.
Mrs Haug, the Commission cannot accept these last two amendments, although we have agreed to comply with Parliament's wish - the wish of the Committee on Budgets - to provide more information on the collection of own resources in a working paper.
This will mean a delay in the whole decision-making process.
The Commission regrets this, as the Court of Auditors and also the Committee on Budgetary Control have repeatedly criticised the Commission for using the old statistical basis for calculating VAT contributions when collecting own resources.
The situation will have been sorted out by 2002 with the ratification of the own resources decision.
Nevertheless, the Commission would have welcomed it if the statistical simplification and improvements that it proposed last September could have come into effect sooner.
