Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ecopoint system was agreed during Austria's accession to the EU.
So what we are talking about is an existing, legally valid agreement which expires in 2003.
The objective, as has already been mentioned, is to use more environmentally-friendly lorries in transit through the Austrian Alps and to reduce NOx emissions by 60% in comparison with 1992, which has almost been achieved.
The agreement also sets an upper ceiling on the number of transit journeys, the so-called 108% clause.
Now the Commission wants to abolish the 108% clause by the end of 2003.
The rapporteur, Hannes Swoboda, rejects the Commission proposal and I concur with this view, although there is a conflict between Austrian and German interests, for example, here.
But our concern here must be to act within the context of a European transport policy and that means having a taxation mechanism for ecologically sensitive regions.
In all events, I should like to highlight three problems, as I have done in my proposed amendments.
First, the number of journeys needs to be calculated correctly.
A number of speakers have expressed doubts as to the accuracy of the statistics, because they also include some bilateral journeys.
Care must therefore be taken to calculate the number of journeys correctly, so that sanctions are not wrongly applied.
That brings me to my second point, sanctions.
In 1999, as has already been mentioned, the number of transit journeys was exceeded by 100,000, resulting in a cutback of 150,000 journeys by way of "punishment".
I think the current sanction mechanism is excessive and wrong because it hits individual road hauliers, even though it means state action.
Something needs to be done here.
And my third and final point.
Our ultimate transport policy objective is to have a sustainable transport system which allows sustainable mobility in the long term.
However, the Commission has so far omitted to present a conclusive overall concept for the Alps for 2003 onwards and we need one now as a matter of urgency.
