Mr President, Commissioner, as Mr Sterckx stresses in his excellent report, the maritime accidents involving the Erika, the Ievoli Sun and the Baltic Carrier highlight the shortcomings of and the omissions in current Community legislation.
It is high time we had strict controls and supervised ships entering EU ports or using the busy shipping lanes off Community coasts.
I need only point out, in order to illustrate just how serious maritime safety is, that 90% of trade between the EU and third countries uses maritime transport.
Contrary to the honourable rapporteur and his Amendment No 11 to Article 8, I take the view that the EU has sufficient weight and international clout to adopt its own regulations and standards where the IMO is unable to do so in the short term.
I therefore subscribe to the Commission's proposal to install black boxes on older ships and not to allow any technical derogations for older ships.
Surely it is older ships which represent a danger to maritime transport and the maritime and coastal environment?
A second point I should like to raise concerns how compliance with the measures adopted can be guaranteed at national and European level.
The Commission proposes setting up a new European Maritime Safety Agency, on which Mr Mastorakis has reported.
Despite the general consensus on the remit and responsibilities of this new European agency, I wonder if it will resolve the fundamental problems involved in improving maritime safety in the Member States.
Would it not be better to start by stipulating what the Member States themselves should do in order to anchor a uniform European approach in their national legislation and put it into practice?
By that I mean, for example, specific proposals for new national databases, powers for the national authorities to conduct stricter inspections of ships which represent a risk, specific powers for coastal authorities over ships using ports of refuge or criteria for specifying the number of ports of refuge to be notified and the special safety precautions required in ports.
But, first and foremost, we need to train and deploy the human resources needed.
So far there has been no mention of this or uniform European approach here.
This, too, is something the Commission should take into account and include in subsequent action.
