Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to address the problems posed by the first BSE crisis, when the export of beef and live cattle from the United Kingdom was banned, Britain introduced the so-called 30-month rule, whereby the meat of all animals slaughtered over the age of 30 months was destroyed.
A calf-processing premium was also offered for the early slaughter of calves, not only in the United Kingdom but also in France, Portugal and Ireland.
In the four years from 1996 to 2000 in which the 30-month rule has applied in the United Kingdom, the cost to the EU budget has been EUR 1 275.4 million.
This amount is equivalent to 70% of the purchase price of these animals, since 30% of the purchase price and the entire cost of disposal were to be met by the UK.
In each case, 80% of the amount was paid when animals were slaughtered, and the remaining 20% was paid on presentation of evidence that any meat-and-bone meal produced from the carcasses of these animals had been burned.
It should, however, be noted that the entire cost of slaughter and safe disposal was the responsibility of the UK.
The calf-processing premium has been funded in full from the Community budget.
For the four Member States I mentioned, where these premiums were made available, the total expenditure amounted to EUR 326.6 million, of which 235.4 million went to the United Kingdom.
The Community action to tackle the first BSE crisis, however, also included full funding of public storage and an early-marketing premium for calves as well as additional direct aid amounting to EUR 1 309.9 million.
This direct aid - the early-marketing premium and the grants for public storage of more than 700 000 tonnes of meat - benefited all the Member States.
To tackle the present crisis, the Commission has not only provided EUR 238 million for interventions and 700 million for the destruction strategy but has also recently presented the Council and Parliament with a proposed package of measures for the beef and veal sector, comprising both intervention measures and other special market measures designed to reduce the production of bovine meat in the period from 2001 to 2003.
In addition to the sum of around EUR one billion that has been voted for the 2001 budget, this entails further expenditure of 157 million in the year 2001 as well as additional expenditure of 1 145 million in 2002 and 181 million in the 2003 budget.
The Community will also meet 70% of the cost of the buy-out operation and the special arrangements; all other costs must be met by the Member States.
The storage of intervention stocks will be fully financed by the Community as hitherto.
