Mr President, I would like to call to mind once again that the French initiative before us is aimed at combating illegal immigration, and I would like to thank Mr Kirkhope expressly for his balanced report.
The idea is to prevent illegal immigration attempts from the very outset - as a rule in the person' s home country.
At present, carriers are indirectly encouraging illegal immigration in that no checking of travel documents is carried out.
An attempt to enter illegally cannot be detected by the border authorities until the point of arrival in a Member State of the EU.
A simple and efficient solution is being proposed here by the Commission.
The carriers should check on departure whether passengers have the necessary travel documents or visas and, if need be, refuse to carry the people concerned.
To guarantee that these checks are carried out and at the same time take steps to discourage people from knowingly abetting illegal immigration, uniform fines should be introduced in the EU.
This is the only way to ensure a common and coherent stance as regards illegal immigration.
The proposal that the fines should be waived if a request for asylum is made, however, is counterproductive, since as a rule asylum is almost always requested.
For this reason, the fine imposed on the carrier should only be refunded if the request for asylum is subsequently granted.
It is perfectly reasonable to expect carriers to check the documents required for entry into the destination country along with their travel tickets or flight tickets.
This must be made to apply to all types of passenger carriers, including railway companies.
The carrier cannot, on the other hand, be expected to take charge of passengers' return transportation.
This should be handed over to the national police or other appropriate authority.
This is the only way to ensure that the persons concerned are really returned in a proper manner.
A criticism that may be levied at this proposal too, however, is that important aspects of a common policy on immigration and asylum should be considered within the framework of an overall concept and not sneaked into the legislative process prematurely as individual measures.
