Mr President, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr van Dam.
I think he has submitted a very good report.
Looking again at the explanatory statement, one realises that it contains a whole lot of arguments and material about what is happening on Europe's roads.
What is happening on Europe's roads can either be described as criminal or disgraceful, or both at the same time, and it is often simply unacceptable.
The fact that we are not solving all the problems with this dossier has been described in detail by Mr van Dam in his report.
However, I think that we are really getting to grips with at least one important matter, that of clamping down on social dumping by a few black sheep in the haulage sector.
One must always stress that the great majority, as I believe, do things by the book.
Here we are talking about a very few people, but their behaviour has devastating consequences.
Driving and rest periods are one thing, and these must be adhered to, there is no question about that; the social conditions of the drivers are the other aspect of this.
All drivers have a right to be employed in accordance with the conditions that usually apply in the Member States.
The attempt to use two drivers from central or eastern Europe to comply with the driving and rest periods, while at the same time gaining competitive advantages by means of wage dumping, must be stopped, because if two drivers together earn less than a driver who is employed on the usual terms, then that is simply out of order.
It is a disgrace and must be denounced as such.
It is good, therefore, that we are starting with third countries first, as we have suggested.
We should not wait too long to extend this to the Union, and to the Member States, so that this regulation applies to everyone.
I hope that it will not take as long as the ERIKA package, but that we can arrive at a regulation speedily.
Eastward expansion is imminent and we need to have decent social conditions, but also fair conditions for competition, on our roads and in the haulage industry.
