Mr President, Commissioner, I should like first of all to thank the rapporteur most sincerely for his report and to congratulate him on it.
He had a really very tricky subject to deal with.
My group, at any rate, will be very glad to vote in favour of this report.
As we shall, of course, be voting in favour of your report, Mr Sjöstedt, allow me to give voice to certain misgivings expressed to me by persons affected.
Persons affected are of the opinion that a lot of things are being said here that are not materially justified.
Because of the two tailing ponds disasters with which we are familiar, the mining industry as a whole and the existing rules are being seen in a light that bears no relation to reality.
People have mentioned to me recital A, which says that mining accidents have highlighted the inadequacy of rules and monitoring requirements governing the mining industry in present and future EU states.
Couched in such general terms, that is not correct.
What is correct is that the strictness of the regulations varies within the EU and naturally also in the candidate countries.
But the problem lies not so much in the laws as in how those laws are enforced in certain countries, Romania for example.
On recital D: poor management of mining operations and disposal of mining waste is a global problem.
This, too - according to the people concerned, who feel offended by it - is not exactly true, because most firms in the SME category do not operate on a global scale.
Many large firms that are active worldwide are, on the contrary, pioneers when it comes to strict safety and environmental standards.
Viewed globally, in gold mining, for example, there are more problems with small, under-funded operations that are not in a position even to be properly aware of environmental concerns.
But there are also things that are expressly welcomed, for example the final sentence of point 8: 'Furthermore [Parliament] believes that the landfill of waste Directive does not constitute an appropriate framework for regulating mining waste and therefore urges the Commission to put forward a proposal for a specific Directive on mining waste.'
That can only be fully and entirely welcomed and underlined.
I believe the European mining industry is very much aware of its responsibilities and is therefore calling for a specific directive for mining waste.
There must, then, be adequate rules for waste, and environmental and technical standards must be laid down.
I believe we are all aware that the specific nature of mining is such that the Landfill Directive cannot be applied and would not bring about any improvement in the ecological and economic situation of mining companies.
I have taken the liberty, Mr Sjöstedt, of tabling an amendment to paragraph 9.
This is concerned with extending the Seveso II Directive to also cover risks arising from storage and processing activities in metal ore mining.
I hope you will be able to agree to this amendment and I congratulate you once again on your report.
