Madam President, a majority of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats voted against the Karamanou report.
This signal could be misinterpreted or even turned against us to score political points.
We are not, of course, opposed to equal opportunities policy and we are certainly not against women's participation.
We agree with the principles enumerated by Commissioner Diamantopoulou at the end of this morning's debate.
We are in favour of mainstreaming measures in business, in public institutions, in education, training and culture.
We are in favour of building up political networks and we need European indicators such as benchmarking.
We are also in favour of concrete actions and measures being implemented in the EU Member States.
We have demonstrated this in countries where Christian Democrats and Conservatives are in power.
Women are demonstrably holding leading positions in our parties.
For example, in Germany, my own party, the CDU, has a woman leader and in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats a considerable number of the national delegations are led by women.
So there is no doubt that we support the objective of equal opportunities, and this was also apparent from the speeches that my female colleagues and I made this morning.
However, the rapporteur, Mrs Karamanou, and her Socialist Group were not prepared to support our amendments rejecting the establishment of quotas throughout Europe.
There are various different systems in the EU Member States for ensuring that women are properly represented numerically speaking.
And, contrary to what appears in the report, these are not laid down by governments, but by the parties, when they are drawing up their lists.
That is the way it should stay - that is what the principle of subsidiarity is all about.
So any attempt to make out that my group, because a majority of its Members voted against the Karamanou report, is in some way opposed to balanced participation of men and women in the decision-making process, any such attempt is certainly doomed to failure.
Madam President, it is not only necessary for the overall thrust of ideas and initiatives to be right - above all the detail must also be right.
