Mr President, I fully endorse what Mr Ferber has said.
I do not intend to say anything about the plethora of proposals presented in my area, i.e. on environmental policy and consumer protection.
I do not intend to say anything about them because I assume that half of them will not be implemented and the other half will be carried over to next year.
A German reference would read: tries hard.
But you would not want to use it to apply for another job, because you would not get it.
When you talk of good governance, Mr Prodi, good governance also means self-assessment, evaluating your Commission and deciding what you have the time and staff to achieve.
And while we are on the subject of good governance: what does good governance mean?
What exactly is good governance?
Is it transparency?
Fine, Mr Prodi.
We are all very keen on transparency, but is more involvement by interest groups selected by you and with which you alone negotiate more transparency?
Not in my book.
And what about cutting red tape, Mr Prodi.
Yes, I am all for cutting red tape, including red tape between Commission services.
I am also all for cutting red tape in Parliament - she says self-critically - but are voluntary undertakings towards industry the solution?
Are they any faster?
And who controls them?
Who imposes sanctions when they do not function?
Is that more democracy, I ask you?
You, Mr Prodi, were selected by the Heads of Government and your appointment was confirmed by us.
But we here in the European Parliament were elected - directly elected - by the citizens of the European Union.
This European Parliament has, by definition, a central role in civil society, as you so nicely put it, and I trust that you too can see that from your understanding of democracy.
I warn all of you in the Commission not to tinker with the crucial role of the European Parliament, Mr Prodi.
At the moment, good governance appears in the Commission's book to mean, first and foremost, governance on its own or governance alone and I urgently advise you not to pursue that course and call on you to confirm that it is the European Parliament which takes the decisions and also controls you.
