Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I welcome this reform of the 1996 Equal Treatment Directive and congratulate Mrs Hautala on her truly immense work to achieve a consensus in this House.
The amendment of the directive comes at the right time now that we finally have a sound legal basis in the Treaty of Amsterdam, and it contains more detailed provisions to protect women from discrimination in their professions and in the workplace.
In my view, this is a genuine building block and a contribution to the overall strategy of gender mainstreaming.
With our amendments to the text proposed by the Commission, the directive's scope of application becomes broader and more specific.
We put forward practical definitions of direct and indirect discrimination in the workplace.
For the first time, sexual harassment in the workplace is recognised as discrimination on grounds of sex, and our amendments offer women workers various ways of defending themselves, including recourse to an independent body.
We have also introduced a woman's right to return to her own job or an equivalent job under terms and conditions which are not less favourable to her after maternity leave.
We are again tabling an amendment to protect fathers who apply for parental leave as well.
They are still few in number.
Europe-wide, just 2% of fathers claim this right, and these progressive fathers must not be excluded from our efforts.
I hope that this proposed amendment will be widely supported by this House.
In my view, this too is an essential building block for the gender mainstreaming process.
We Social Democrats want to break open old and entrenched structures and ensure that role stereotypes are no longer perpetuated.
The directive imposes an obligation on Member States to take action against discrimination.
It is thus a move away from voluntary, non-binding provisions.
I think that this too will encourage debate about this particular issue in Germany.
The text also calls for the extension of the Equal Treatment Directive to the private sector.
After the cases which we have witnessed, I hope that together, we can now finally make progress for women.
