Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen: I would like to make use of the short time available to me to comment on Article 3 of the Directive on fruit juices.
Today, we are increasingly advocating information and clarification for consumers.
Responsible, adult consumers, getting information from product labels, are meant to decide for themselves what they buy.
Strict, clear, unambiguous regulations, the thinking behind which is clear to all, must be enacted.
Descriptions such as 'juice' , 'fruit juice' , 'nectar' , 'fruit juice from concentrate' or even 'contains fruit' make it difficult for consumers to assess a product's true quality or know how it was produced.
It was in 1975 that the Fruit Juice Directive first introduced consumers to the designation 'fruit juice' or reinforced it, and consumers have got used to it.
'Fruit juice' and 'fruit juice from concentrate' are in the final analysis one and the same product.
The designation 'fruit juice from concentrate' refers only to the manufacturing process and not to the ingredients, which must of course be the same.
The additional designation 'with concentrates' tends in my view to confuse.
Product designations must be clearly defined, simple and comprehensible.
We must prevent additional descriptions which are not absolutely necessary, as confusion is no protection for consumers.
In my view, the proposed Amendments Nos 18, 19 and 25 make the current legal position stricter in an unjustifiable way, particularly for the juice industry, and I believe they should be rejected.
Fruit to be sold fresh in markets, in other words for consumption, may be treated with fungicides.
Why, then, not fruit for juice production?
In exactly the same way, the criteria of the EU Drinking Water Directive must suffice for the water which has to be used in the preparation of fruit juice.
I would ask you therefore, ladies and gentlemen, to vote objectively and purposefully to set a directive on course which will help the consumer and which manufacturers will be able to implement.
