Mr President, as far as the general situation is concerned, I would echo fully the concerns and criticisms expressed by the two previous speakers.
I would ask you to bear with me, however, if I concentrate exclusively on the situation of the shipyards in eastern Germany.
In the image of the boxing ring, which Mr Gomolka used, the east German shipyards must, in addition, climb into the ring wearing handcuffs.
They are facing rigid restrictions on production capacity and, of course, I know that these were the condition for high subsidies in the nineties.
But firstly, they are managed bureaucratically and secondly, no account is taken of the fact that these shipyards do in fact also continue to invest during the general process of rationalisation.
The resulting growth in productivity triggers further cuts in the workforce.
The Commission has very good statistical data about the dramatic situation in eastern Germany, Commissioner.
It is one thing to read that one in every three people there is seeking work, however, and quite another perhaps to experience it first-hand.
I do not wish to be misunderstood.
I am very well aware that since 1990 the Union has acted in great solidarity with east Germany and that the Commission has done a great deal.
Of course, the Federal German Government is also called upon to act here.
But in the specific case of the shipbuilding industry, the decision lies, above all, with the Commission.
I think that the Treaty of Amsterdam offers sufficient room for manoeuvre for political action to be taken and for the saving clause on capacity restrictions in the Treaty to be used in 2001.
In my view, it is necessary, firstly, to make the quotas more flexible so that they are no longer annual but are applied for the remaining five years; secondly to factor-in the impact of rationalisation and take this into account and, thirdly - and I really support this point - to reintroduce general production aid for as long as South Korea causes these gross distortions of competition.
