.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, particularly those of you from the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, tomorrow's decision on the first Stabilisation and Association Agreement with a Balkan country is also a big step for the European Parliament towards integrating the Balkan region into the European Union, especially as regards Macedonia's membership.
It is not by chance that Macedonia is the first country we are signing an agreement of this kind with.
Ever since it was created, this country has been extremely cooperative and constructive towards its neighbours and consequently also towards the European Union.
All governments have endeavoured to give minorities, especially the large Albanian minority, a share of social and political power.
This has certainly not happened without various debates and problems.
Furthermore, the international community, including this Parliament, have helped to meet some of the compelling needs of the Albanian population, particularly in the area of higher education, not least by establishing the University of Tetovo.
However, I can understand that the Albanian population in Macedonia does not think that this sequence of events is enough.
But what I cannot understand and will not accept - and what none of us should accept - is that extremists and terrorists should use those aspirations that have not yet been met as an excuse for attacks and for murder.
We must resolutely condemn these methods of achieving political objectives, which are totally inappropriate in a democracy.
In a democracy, no one should bring bombs and murder to the negotiating table.
Violence and terror tactics should not be rewarded.
It is, of course, necessary to build on what those in positions of political power, and not least the current government and President, have achieved since Macedonia's independence in terms of integrating minorities, by taking further steps so as not to jeopardise the internal stability of this country.
The Albanian minority is certainly a special case because of its size, but this should not result in further discrimination against smaller minorities.
Greater recognition of the Albanian language and a gradual but qualitatively justifiable and comprehensible increase in the share of teachers, judges, police officers and administrative officials is certainly called for.
Some of the provisions of the constitution have also been called into doubt.
I do not want to give any advice here as to whether and how the constitution should be amended.
But after all the positive and negative experience with emphasising the ethnic question, the inalienable individual and personal rights of every person, that is of every single citizen of Macedonia, should be the top priority, with special arrangements for ethnic reasons being accorded a lower priority.
As I see it, we in the European Union should not be promoting or supporting any division of this society along ethnic lines.
A newly shaped and improved relationship between the Slavic Macedonian majority and the Albanian minority is dependent on a greater desire for tolerance and acceptance on both sides, and also on integration and solidarity.
I say this because segregation and mere cool coexistence under a very shaky roof are not the ideal conditions for developing a joint state.
Alongside the need for regional cooperation and free movement across borders it is also important to shape the joint state of Macedonia.
During my many visits to the Balkans, generally together with Doris Pack, I have scarcely met anyone who dreams of a Greater Albania.
However, the Albanian population of Macedonia, who belong to a people which is represented in several different states, needs to be particularly sensitive in how it takes account of doubts and fears about this idea.
What is more, the political leaders of this society should not cave in under threats from extremists and terrorists.
Furthermore, I believe that all Macedonian politicians should work - and work together - on solving the country's urgent economic and social problems, because unemployment, poverty and poor prospects, particularly amongst the young, always make young people easy victims of the lure of extremism.
The agreement that we are to decide upon tomorrow will particularly help to solve the economic and social problems of this country.
Extremists will not bring Macedonia closer to Europe - just the opposite.
That would not help anyone except the extremists themselves.
In view of the most recent events I would like to say, however, that the same applies to the counter-violence that is already becoming apparent, and which also benefits no one but extremists.
I would like to call upon all responsible politicians in Macedonia to summon up sufficient courage to implement the necessary reforms.
But I would also particularly like to thank the representatives of the European Union, Javier Solana, Chris Patten, and the Commission representative in Skopje for their commitment.
Macedonia can solve its current problems by working with the European Union and in return we can certainly find better solutions to the problems of this region by working with Macedonia.
On that note, I wish every success not only to the agreement but also to Macedonia itself in tackling this difficult task.
(Applause)
