Mr President, BSE is still a danger.
The danger has not been averted.
And if there is less of a chance of catching BSE now than there was a short time ago, then it is thanks to our work here in Parliament and, I freely admit Mr Byrne, it is also thanks to the work which you have done.
The new Commission and you personally are consistent in your approach, but I must nonetheless criticise certain aspects of the proposals.
One chink in the Commission' s armour at European level was that of milk replacer and the fat contaminated with protein residue.
Unfortunately it was closed too late.
What is being done now is a step in the right direction.
But fat is still being added, albeit heat-treated fat.
And, Mr Byrne, the question is, where does the mechanically recovered meat go, if not into the food chain?
Is it used for bonemeal, is it used for fat and will brain residue left behind when the skull is sucked out end up in it?
Is it sterilised enough at 133 degrees?
As we know, these prions are clearly proving to be resistant to heat treatment.
It would be better here if we said that the only fat in milk replacer must come from the milk itself.
If you really must have fat, then put the butter which has been removed back in or feed the milk straight to the animals.
The second problem is the brain.
We still have a situation in which the brain from animals under 12 months old can be used.
We can also use pigs' brains.
The proof of the sausage cannot be in the eating.
So what we need to do is to remove both cows' and pigs' brains from the whole sausage, from the whole food chain.
The third aspect is testing.
Mr Böge said earlier that we want to test after 18 months.
I must correct him here: Parliament's resolution states that all animals which enter the food chain must be tested, starting at 18 months.
This too must be guaranteed and we must not let up in our pursuit of this objective.
Mr Byrne, we must not allow animals which are not being tested now to be slaughtered, because we urgently need these results for diagnostic reasons - as Mr Böge has already said - in order to evaluate the overall threat of BSE in Europe.
