Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have the first supplementary budget of the year, somewhat earlier than last year.
Last year, we had a rather more pleasant duty to perform on behalf of the Member States.
We were able to reimburse the sum of 3.2 billion to them.
This year, in an area which plays an enormously influential role in European policy, we are forced to implement a measure which no one can possibly relish.
Not only because of its underlying theme, but also because there is no alternative to the Commission's proposed approach.
This is not just annoying but it enrages me to see that in order to rectify a situation, we have to support a process which is almost impossible to justify to anyone with any common sense.
I do not want to say yet again that it is incredible that foodstuffs which were produced with massive amounts of money now simply have to be incinerated.
We are not only dealing with a financial crisis.
Of course I am speaking as a budget specialist here, but I cannot focus solely on the financial aspects, for we face a crisis of confidence as well.
The people watching us cannot understand that we are just accepting this without demanding real follow-up measures.
And as much as I value Mr Böge's calm approach - and he is certainly a good example of how we should be responding in this situation - no normal sentient and thinking person could possibly stay genuinely calm and simply say yes to what is being demanded of us.
We are required to decide on a measure which stretches our credulity to the limit.
So I have every sympathy with those who say, "Let's reject it."
Or those who say, "Let's put the thumbscrews on the agriculture ministers."
I sympathise with all of them, because what is happening here is almost beyond belief.
In reality, however, what we must do is to bring about a change of course.
But this cannot be achieved overnight.
We cannot completely reshape our agricultural policy in the first two months of this year and make it the basis of our decision here today.
That is simply not feasible.
We cannot halt meat production overnight, because the calves are already gestating.
And to pretend that all we need to do is press a switch to make everything better is simply an illusion.
We have to be honest enough to admit this.
But we must also make it very clear that if we support this measure here today, we are not giving the Commission or the Council a free rein.
In the coming weeks and months we will be looking very closely at the proposals you submit to us.
We will not be saying, "Carry on as usual."
Let me make this very clear.
We must not take desperate measures in the heat of the moment, but there will be no 'business as usual' either.
Instead, you will have to put forward proposals to ensure sustainable development and discuss them with us in detail.
You must also understand that as far as the budget is concerned, the end - and the upper limit - have been reached with this decision today.
There is no more after this.
Everything that happens in future will have a dramatic impact, not only for us but also for you, when you have to prepare items or agree measures in the Council.
You can assume that you have our agreement once again this time, but it will be far more difficult in future, unless very good grounds and substantive policy amendments are put forward in this context.
