Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are dealing here with a very narrow area; we are discussing combating facilitation, i.e. aiding illegal border crossing.
It is a very positive desire to want to do something considering that, every year, half a million people enter the European Union illegally, half of whom have been facilitated in this way.
Organised crime does brisk and relatively risk-free business with these people, which is why the initiative is to be welcomed, though it has not been put in an overall context.
Looking at Mr Ceyhun' s report, I have to say that the intentions, namely to help refugees, are good.
But what the report proposes in terms of measures is anything but conducive to combating facilitation.
Rather, in my and our estimation, what is being proposed here will lead to the expansion of facilitation.
Furthermore, the business will continue to be risk-free for criminals.
According to these proposals, persons or groups will a priori be immune from prosecution if they take illegal immigrants across borders for humanitarian reasons and without payment.
But what will the consequence be?
How quickly do you think criminal organisations will make use of such a legal construct?
The whole thing would then be not only useless but counterproductive.
What is more, your proposals are moving in a direction in which our understanding of the law and our legal system are being turned on their heads.
They will introduce subjectivity, since legal persons or groups rather than the courts will decide whether a criminal act, namely facilitation, is a criminal act or not.
That is a reversal of our legal system and will certainly not lead to the desired goal.
In conclusion, Mr Ceyhun, I am convinced that you doubtless acted in good faith but the instrument you are proposing is neither legally nor effectively conducive to achieving a positive outcome.
What we need is a comprehensive system and I believe we are working towards this together.
I am also convinced that, during the course of this year, working jointly with the Commission, we will be successful.
