Mr President, Commissioner, you had a rather thankless task, my dear Mr Monti.
I cannot imagine that you felt very comfortable this evening, because I should like to say to you that, although I hear your words, I cannot believe them.
That is the problem.
For months now, we have been waiting for something which will now - as you have again indicated today - perhaps be available in the summer, God - or whoever is going to do the work you mentioned - willing.
I mean, if you take a dossier away from one area of an organisation then you must surely know where you are going to reallocate it.
This portfolio has been taken away from people who have actually been doing a fairly good job over the last few months and years.
During the course of the project they learnt more about it.
Now it has been put on someone else's desk and is in limbo.
This is a dreadful state of affairs.
It is like a poor orphan.
No one really cares about it; no one is really responsible for it.
That is why I actually think that what sounded good in theory has not yet developed into anything worthwhile in practice.
We have already been waiting for the communication for ages, and I am eager to know when it will be forthcoming.
Over and above what is, of course, also in our written contributions, I should like to suggest to the Commission that it, perhaps, does not need to create so very much that is new; instead it should concentrate much more on harnessing those who are doing fantastic work on the spot.
They do exist.
There are networks which work incredibly well and it should use them.
When I consider that you praise the Info-Points here!
Well, I know of an Info-Point which is doing a great job, but which cannot survive on the money from the European Commission, which never arrives until the end of the year or the following year.
Today they do not know whether they will still exist next year.
How are people supposed to work there and be motivated to motivate others?
In my view there is much more to be done in this field.
Of course, we all of us want to act in concert and to achieve the best results together but this will only work with decentralisation.
You said it yourself.
So let us not reinvent the wheel, but let us deploy all those who really are able to convey the concept of Europe with local colour, and not only the bit of Europe that is in Brussels!
