Mr President, Madam Foreign Minister, Commissioner, first I should like to pass on apologises for absence from Doris Pack, our top expert on crisis regions.
She is on her way to Sarajevo and has asked me to stand in for her.
It is true that, once again, we are right up against the concepts of "civil crisis management" and "conflict prevention" in the crisis region, and we pray that we shall not have to deploy the third option, i.e. of putting our military capabilities to the test.
Recent developments in the region have been both positive and extremely negative and I think that we have taken account of both in Parliament' s compromise resolution which will be put to the vote tomorrow.
On the positive side, I would point out that efforts to keep the peace in Macedonia really have worked over recent years and the Georgievski government has made a special contribution here by including representatives of the Albanian minority in the coalition.
And if you take a closer look, you will see that this is not just a formality and that many important positions in Macedonia have been given to members of the minority.
We have all the more responsibility for stabilising this country and it is good to hear that relative peace has now been restored on the fifth day, including in Tanusevcí, which was temporarily occupied by UCK extremists.
I should like to raise another point in this connection.
Croatia has also made good progress and the Mesiæ government currently in power in Croatia - unlike the previous government - is not under any suspicion of encouraging Croatian extremists in Herzegovina who want to interfere with the successful community in Bosnia-Herzegovina and try to impose their own agenda there.
In this respect, the appeal to the HDZ in Herzegovina is justified, but should be seen in isolation from these trends.
As proof of our trust - and I think as justifiable proof of our trust - towards the new Yugoslavian Government, we had allowed Yugoslav troops to start patrolling the Presevo valley in order to keep UCK extremists there under control and, in return, NATO has also stepped up border controls.
This is, I think, an important point.
But what must we do when we demand that communal representatives in Kosovo and the local authorities fight the extremists?
I think that it is important to say in this context that we must strengthen the legitimacy of moderate forces in Kosovo and that we strengthen Mr Rugowa - to name a name - by making it possible for elections to be held in Kosovo.
I think that is an important political point.
Otherwise the UCK can maintain off its own bat that they have more influence than they actually do.
If we move in this direction, it will, I think, be a positive development.
