Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, wood is a renewable material, a construction material with a future.
Wood regrows, it rots and finds its way back into the natural cycle from which it came.
So we should not forget wood in the Sixth Framework Programme on Research - we should make sure that the priority area for wood is accordingly drawn up with due care, especially in the field of biotechnology.
I believe that wood will be a lot more important for us in the future than it has been in the past.
As wood is also very widely used in the international construction industry, the wood industry faces numerous problems.
It has to deal with a huge number of technical trade barriers, a multiplicity of national standards and authorisation procedures and also, to some extent, bureaucratic testing, monitoring and certification requirements.
This is an area where the European Commission should apply SLIM.
And perhaps the wood sector is an ideal one for introducing model procedures, possibly including BEST.
I would like to thank Hans-Peter Martin, as promoting small and medium-sized enterprises is, of course, a central and essential matter, and one where we have an important partner in the Commission.
However, there is also the matter of making appropriate changes to building laws and regulations, because fire regulations in Europe in particular vary widely.
We believe it is high time that the construction products directive was adopted.
This directive in particular would enable great progress to be made in marketing wood.
As regards world trade, I would like to stress that Japan has very restrictive legislation in this area.
This is something we also need to discuss because wood is, after all, not just a raw material and a construction material, but it will also be highly important in future through biotechnology.
That is why we especially want to promote smaller biomass power stations, which will make an important contribution to Europe's energy self-sufficiency, so that this is also an area where wood has an important role to play.
