Mr President, the Commission has given us a good basis for discussion.
However, I should also like to thank the rapporteur for substantially improving and enriching the original ideas.
The ideas themselves, in fact, are not new.
We have been talking about them for the last ten or fifteen years.
There have been reports and studies - we already know everything we really want to know.
The question is how we can implement it all.
How can the technology, which is already available, be combined with the money, which is also available?
And here I wonder whether the European Investment Bank could play a bigger part.
The second problem I should like to address concerns administrative matters.
Let me cite one small example in the federal State from which I come.
Our State has a number of universities, but let us just take one of them as an example.
Some of the university buildings were to be better insulated and have better energy systems installed.
It took many years before the buildings were refurbished.
Why?
Because the buildings belonged to the Ministry of Finance, but the Ministry of Science was their user.
In other words, one ministry would have had to invest, but another would have benefited from the investment.
Because each of them has its own separate accounting system, they did not sit down together.
It took many years until they were able to agree - and it took an EU study to bring them together, incidentally.
Absurd it may seem, but that is how things are!
By the way, in my home town, cars with extremely high petrol consumption are going for a song at the moment, whereas dealers are finding it difficult to sell cars with low fuel consumption.
This is a third problem, a question of consumer behaviour.
Consumers bear responsibility too, not only legislators.
If administrators, consumers and legislators get their act together, we can achieve something, and I eagerly await the Commission' s proposals.
I can assure you, Commissioner, that we shall support you in these efforts, and we shall also present initiatives of our own to that end.
