draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, listening to the main rapporteur, Mr Costa Neves, you could be forgiven for thinking that this year's budget procedure chiefly consisted of considering the agriculture budget.
I am indeed grateful to him for emphasising the agricultural side, but in concrete terms this would mean - and this is something we welcome - that the 2002 budget would be taking the first steps towards the required reform of EU agricultural policy.
However, these steps would be somewhat less incisive because the 2002 budget will probably be very much marked by the need to overcome the BSE and foot-and-mouth crises.
On behalf of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, I would therefore suggest that we take the issues before us particularly seriously, and that we therefore ensure that provision is made for the possibility of bringing together appropriations - including those in the area of compulsory expenditure - in the form of a fund for "animal diseases and market emergencies".
This would guarantee that we really have sufficient funds to deal with the crisis, which has assumed catastrophic proportions, in conjunction with the Member States.
On no account will we accept an attempt to tackle problems by means of across-the-board cuts, as was discussed for the previous budget.
We trust that there will not be a request of this kind from the Commission when the preliminary draft budget for 2002 is submitted.
In the context of export refunds and of a new EU agricultural authority, which is now on the cards, we should also try to continue the trend of further reducing expenditure in respect of exports, where it is still very high.
This would not only make it easier for us to energetically defend our position at WTO level, but would also increase our overall flexibility as regards agriculture and rural development.
In other words, despite all the problems that the BSE and foot-and-mouth crises are currently creating for us, we would like to see Commission's preliminary draft budget containing the first positive steps towards the much-needed reform of EU agricultural policy.
