Madam President, the population is concerned, because there are indications of a link between this depleted uranium in munitions and effects on people's health and on the environment.
At the same time, however, we are aware that there is no proof yet of the existence of such a link.
Not a single scientific study, not one of the studies that have been conducted in Spain, Italy or other countries, has come up with evidence.
For this reason, following on from the remarks made here by the High Representative of the EU, Dr Solana, I should like to say that this discussion does not in any way amount to a rehabilitation of Slobodan Milosevic.
The missions undertaken in Bosnia and in Kosovo by the troops of NATO and of EU Member States were missions against a war criminal.
We owe an undiminished debt of gratitude to these people for having committed themselves in this way to the cause of human rights.
Those who bear political and military responsibility also deserve our appreciation.
Let me state that here categorically on behalf of my group.
We hear, however, that the deployed weapons set off chemical processes on impact, processes which result in the creation of uranium oxide, for example, and which may pose problems.
Over the past few days we have been hearing about examinations conducted by the Pentagon in January 2000 from which it emerged that this ammunition sometimes contains small amounts of plutonium too.
This entails risks, and the troops must be instructed to take particular care in areas where these munitions have been deployed.
In view of these considerations, it is indeed necessary to conduct tests for safety's sake.
These tests are not a sign of weakness but a sign of the credibility of democracies which investigate such matters and sweep nothing under the carpet.
We owe that to the military personnel and the staff of non-governmental organisations who were involved, as well as to the civilian population of the region.
We must establish whether there are actually effects on human health and the environment, so that we can either sound the all-clear or take such weapons out of circulation for all time.
At the same time, it is also essential, during the period in which these weapons and their effects are being studied, that existing alternative ammunition be used which is equally efficient without having any of the feared effects.
May I express my thanks to Dr Solana and the Commission for their willingness to keep the European Parliament informed, so that we can make our final assessment in due course on the basis of their information and thus guarantee the safety of our citizens and our troops as well as ensuring the credibility of any military operations we may have to undertake in future in defence of human rights.
