Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the draftsman of the Committee on Budgets' opinion on the Swoboda report concerning the establishment of an Accession Partnership with Turkey, I fully support the document as it stands.
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy has taken account of all the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets.
The following points were important for the Committee on Budgets.
The first appeared to be a budgetary matter, but it is actually a political issue.
The Committee on Budgets called for the appropriations for Turkey to be switched from Heading 4 of the Financial Perspective, i.e. external action, to Heading 7, i.e. Pre-accession Aid, in order to reflect Turkey's status as a candidate for accession.
In a further proposed amendment, the Committee on Budgets made it clear that the volume of Community assistance should be determined annually by the budgetary authority, i.e. the Council and Parliament, as part of the budgetary procedure.
Two further proposed amendments concerned the need for consultation with Parliament as part of the cooperation with Turkey, firstly when the principles, priorities, intermediate objectives and conditions contained in the Accession Partnership are decided, and, secondly, when appropriate steps are agreed in the event that commitments are not respected by Turkey.
As all the points put forward by the Committee on Budgets have been taken up by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, we are quite satisfied from a budgetary point of view.
Indeed, as far as the financial aspects are concerned, the Committee on Foreign Affairs actually went even further, for example with its proposed amendment on Turkey's inclusion in the other financial instruments.
Let me make one last comment: in the coming years, we will all have to push hard for real new money to be made available to Turkey, which is now a candidate country - and indeed to the other candidates for accession - rather than merely bundling the existing programmes together.
Without new money, the candidates for accession will be unable to fulfil the criteria which we have established for them.
