Mr President, the agreement with Mexico is in fact a milestone in our relations with the countries of Latin America.
It has a larger area of application than any previous agreement between the European Union and a third country.
I have always been very critical towards, but, at the same time, very solidly behind this agreement with Mexico.
For us, it is not only a matter of keeping the interests of the European Union in mind - which is very much the case with many in this House - but also the interests of Mexico and its people, who mostly live in poverty.
The agreement will therefore only be a milestone if it improves the living conditions of the overwhelming majority of Mexicans.
Of crucial importance will also be how democracy and human rights are implemented.
The Fox administration will have to be measured in terms of that and not just in terms of its economic success.
Special heed should be paid to the services sector and direct investments, since Mexico must not be regarded as an extended workbench.
Rather, investments must contribute to enhancing regional development.
They must be in line with clear social and ecological standards, which must not only be scrutinised but also adhered to.
It also behoves us here in the European Parliament and the Mexican government to ensure that the greatest possible benefits are reaped for the people of Mexico.
But how the Joint Council performs its tasks in connection with the further development of the agreement and how Mexico' s Parliament and the European Union will be integrated are also important for us.
And as there is nothing that could not be improved, I hope Mexico and the European Union, as equal partners at the same eye level, will resolve the discrepancies and remove the errors which doubtless still exist in the contract.
I say this as Vice-President of the Delegation for Relations with Central America and Mexico.
I stand by this agreement and if these objectives, about which Mrs Lucas has said a great deal, are fulfilled, nothing should stand in the way of success.
Then this agreement would really be a milestone in the history of the contracts concluded between the European Union and a Latin American country.
