Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard many resolutions formulated in this debate today, but I think the Commissioner' s contribution has made clear that security can only come about through cooperation, by our getting involved in the structures and forcing the parties involved to work together.
In this situation there is absolutely no point in formulating resolutions.
After all, that was our experience in Europe, too, when in 1950 we united coal and steel to put an end to a thousand years of warfare between the Germans and the French.
In the Middle East today, the equivalent of coal and steel is tourism, water and energy.
We must change our policy here and support cooperative projects.
Since 1993, we have given massive support - billions of euros - to the Palestinian Authority because we wanted the Oslo peace process to be a success.
But if you talk to the peace movement in Israel today, you find that members of parliament who only a few years ago went to prison because they talked to Mr Arafat are now saying they would not talk to him any more.
He is not stopping the violence, he is behind all this violence that we again witnessed last night.
Such a situation inevitably brought Mr Sharon to power.
That is why we need a new starting point for cooperation.
For that reason, Commissioner, I would like to disagree slightly with your conclusion that these allocations of EUR 10 million to the Palestinian budget between now and November are a good thing.
Lump sum payments of that kind can be made to stabilise a budget, but now we need funds with strings attached, not lump sum payments on such a scale.
Secondly, we must not continue to make unconditional payments to multilateral bodies like the United Nations Refugee Relief Agency, UNWRA.
I would like to read to you something from a schoolbook used by the UNWRA in Palestinian refugee camps.
It says: "The extermination of the Jews was a just and unavoidable evil."
The book praises Adolf Hitler and describes the corrosive power of the Jews in the 1930s.
If that kind of thing is being taught to eight and nine year old children, if suicide attacks are praised, if martyrdom is glorified, then the European Union with the values it stands for must say: we will not pay for that under any circumstances.
I would therefore ask you to look very carefully at what is being taught in Palestinian schools and in the refugee camps through the UNWRA.
Our money should not be used to promote such anti-Semitism and statements of that kind.
