Mr President, it is sometimes easier to offer congratulations at such a late hour, but when you have a report like this in your hand, you could offer them at any time of day.
I think Mrs Mann has produced an absolutely outstanding piece of work.
I would like to focus once more on two particular points.
One is the issue of transparency and the other is the problem of a trade doctrine which still endures.
On the matter of transparency, I would urge the Commission, in particular, to throw its weight behind Amendments Nos 9 to 11.
I think that is precisely the line we should be taking, in other words, not only should Parliament be kept duly informed, but since so much has been made of transparency under the European transparency initiative, a fully comprehensive array of documents should also be made available on the Internet, so that they can be called up any time, and can, in their turn, help enhance the credibility of what we all stand for, namely the development of a new Europe.
What is extremely interesting - and you certainly cannot say that of every report - is the justification part that has been appended.
This brings me to the second issue, that of the fundamental organisation of trade policy.
It certainly has not become any easier to get the message across that what trade means to us, when it is properly organised, is increased prosperity, worldwide I might add.
After Seattle and Davos, we have grown increasingly aware that we are dealing with irrational opponents of globalisation.
It is all a matter of having the right rules.
What it comes down to is fine-tuning, and to some extent, to information too.
If only all those who do not have a good word to say about globalisation could recognise, for example, how strong Europe has already become in the sphere of foreign direct investments, as is evident from this report, or indeed in all kinds of other areas.
What we need to do is set about convincing them.
It is to be hoped that the Commission, in particular, will quickly get to grips with these fundamental issues, so that we can submit corresponding programmes setting out the basic principles, well in advance of 2005 and use them to win the public over.
