Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I wish to express my support for those who have said that this debate must not be about the safeguarding of possession, but about aid for those who need it most.
I also want to say frankly that, in my considered opinion, nobody must close his eyes to the fact that enlargement is going to present us all with great challenges, those of a financial nature among them.
The Germans learned their lesson through reunification, when the citizens were told at first that it would involve no fiscal burdens for them.
This was demonstrably false.
Let there be no misunderstandings - of course we want enlargement.
But we must squarely face the consequences for structural policy.
We should not simply be told 'as you were' , and I do not believe that we will be.
If we are not to forfeit the trust of people in the affected regions, we must point this out clearly, honestly and at an early stage.
If there is not to be a rude awakening, we must explore the possibilities of full support for the candidate countries in building up their infrastructure and, at the same time, concern ourselves with continuing to bring the weakest regions of the Fifteen up to the average.
The success of this will depend on making certain changes which would have been required even without enlargement.
First, there is the fact that the cohesion countries can point to very variable results from the catching-up process, and it is evident that the greatest successes were achieved where the actors were on the spot and shared a commitment to maximising the efficiency of the support.
Moreover, project evaluation needs further improvement and efficient management needs greater rewards than in the past if the effectiveness of the means employed is to be assessed.
Last but not least, there is no getting away from the need for closer dovetailing with the other EU policies, in particular the common agricultural policy.
I believe that both targets can be reached through the decentralisation and simplification that Mr Barnier has mentioned.
