Madam President, G8 summits are in fact an attempt to find global political answers to the globalisation of the markets, which is now a fact of life.
We need these political answers.
What would make me very happy, however, would be if we could take stock of the G8 summits and find out if their agreements had brought in any results.
I need only quote the very specific problem of children in armed conflicts and protection for these children to illustrate that, unfortunately, we have not made much headway at all here, despite the fact that the G8 has already passed an agreement on this subject.
Apart from the very important question of how we can help the poorest developing countries, the question of an improved world trade order as a means of improving the situation in the developing countries is also quite rightly on the agenda.
I would also like to see the G8 summit express a desire to create an international competitive order within the world trade order, and not just confined to specific regions of the world.
This is all the more important now that a summit issue which has never yet been on the agenda, is also set to become the subject of discussion and consultation, namely the gloomy prospects for growth in the world economy.
I really hope that the optimism of the Heads of Government at the summit will help to kick start the economy again because we are in dire need of sustainable growth both in the USA and in other regions of the world; even Europe is not immune to developments in other regions of the world.
In this context I should like to call once again for the Heads of State and Government to put the subject of a new financial architecture on the agenda.
We need financial stability on the markets.
If there is no financial stability on the markets, this adversely affects the world economy and our own economies.
The Heads of State and Government also need to express a desire and call for the private sector to be involved in managing crises on the financial markets.
I really cannot stress enough that stability on the financial markets is a public asset which is most definitely in the common good.
