Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, daily, and indeed almost hourly, we receive new information about potential dangers.
That is why it is very gratifying that Parliament is dealing with this issue today.
I thank the High Representative for promising us complete information and transparency.
For us too, it is a new experience to be discussing matters of security and defence policy in this way.
It will certainly benefit European security and defence policy to be discussed outside the constellation that prevails in the Member States, where governments and oppositions are constantly trying to score political points on these issues.
In Germany, for example, the Red-Green coalition Government under their Minister of Defence has been trivialising all these risks, which is something that has certainly not been happening here in Parliament.
We in the European Parliament have an opportunity to receive factual briefings and information, and that is a very good thing.
What is damaging - and it has been a feature of this debate too - are belated recriminations about the Gulf War and the war in Kosovo.
Mr Wurtz, if you cite the Charter of Fundamental Rights and our high European principles in this context, I must remind you that, at the time when fundamental European principles were at stake, when ethnic cleansing, expulsions and terror were the order of the day in the Balkans, your political grouping stood helplessly on the sidelines.
This also has to be said in such a debate.
We are calling for relevant information to be collected, for the information available in the Member States to be coordinated at the European level with UN data through the specialised agencies of the United Nations and submitted to Parliament again.
An armed conflict must always be governed by the precept that no more force may be used than is necessary to achieve the military objective.
For this reason we need information and research on weapons systems which are less harmful than the one we have been discussing today.
This is where the European Parliament can exercise its responsibility in the framework of European security and defence policy by making its own constructive contributions.
