Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
The proclamation of the Charter represented an important step forward for the citizens of the European Union, even if there is controversy as to what legal reality this proclamation has achieved in the meantime.
In any case, the continuation of this important process demands further efforts at every level.
The Charter further laid down, in addition to other important things, a triad of significance to EU citizens which is echoed in the three reports before us: petitions, the Ombudsman and good administration.
For this, the three rapporteurs, Mr Bösch, Mrs Almeida Garrett and Mr Perry, to whose report I have the honour of speaking, deserve especial thanks and also congratulations.
In reinforcing the triad I have referred to, they have achieved an important step forward, for there is a need for the creation of a further substructure, a network, to secure these institutions for the citizen.
It will now be exciting to see how this network's ramifications will develop.
The law has many instruments through which to turn rights into realities - constitutions, laws, regulations, decrees, right down to service instructions.
In all these, the principle applies: the more generally a right is formulated, the higher up this hierarchy it should be set, and the more specifically, the further down it.
So it is good that we have a code for good administrative conduct before us, and it is right to encourage the Commission to make a regulation for this purpose.
When this regulation is put into tangible form, however, we must keep a careful eye on its precise final content.
In Germany, there was at one time a regulation which stated that a soldier had to start swimming, once he reached a depth of 80 cm of water.
Write this into a constitution and comedians will have a field day with it.
And so it was with good reason that this was not in the German constitution, but in a service regulation.
I believe it to be important that administration should be well organised.
This does not only mean ensuring that the right decisions are taken but also touches on the question of how administration comes across to the citizen - at the shop counter, as it were.
This is very important.
Modern administration means that the citizen is not the authorities' supplicant, but one of its customers.
Modern administration involves the authorities not thinking of themselves as superiors, but as providers of a service.
That is what they are there for, and the citizen is entitled to expect good services.
