Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, maybe it is an opportunity as well as an honour to have the last word in such an important debate.
I think that this debate has highlighted the potential for the European Parliament, especially when it comes to Romania, on which I should like to say a few words.
As a former national member of parliament, I know that a national member of parliament can do very little.
What Baroness Nicholson of Winterbourne has done for Romania, with her report and her hard work, is to get things moving there.
The Commissioner acknowledged as much this morning and I think that we could use this as an example to the numerous groups of visitors who question exactly what we in the European Parliament can do.
To start with, the head of government in Romania reacted as perhaps every head of government in the world would react.
He claimed that Mr Verheugen had said, not to worry, it is only the European Parliament.
Talk to the Commission if you want to become a member of the European Union one day.
I am sure that Mr Verheugen said no such thing.
All the Romanian media quoted him, although they then acknowledged that it makes sense to take a closer look at Parliament's reports and opinions; we have reached a legal position on the question of orphans and homosexuals in Romania which now has to be implemented, something which was unthinkable a few weeks ago.
I should like, if I may, to comment on a question which divides the House.
The Socialist group and Mr Sakellariou have tabled a proposed amendment asking if the report should mention euro-Atlantic structures, yes or no?
The Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy says yes, if Romania wants to join these euro-Atlantic structures, then we want to support this and I think it is important, especially in Romania's case, that we do.
We know that Romania will not accede in the first round in 2004 and a decision to invite Romania to join the North Atlantic Alliance in 2002 is therefore all the more important.
This would bring stability to the whole of Europe and I therefore call on you to reject this amendment tomorrow and support the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
