Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are discussing the follow-up measures to the 1997 budgetary discharge at the beginning of the year 2001, is, to my mind, rather anachronistic in procedural terms, given that the 1998 discharge procedure was concluded more than six months ago and the parliamentary committee responsible is already working on the discharge for 1999.
A modern, efficient administration should respond forthwith to Parliament' s criticism and recommendations for improvement, particularly when misdemeanours need to be dealt with.
Turning now to matters of content, despite some welcome progress, the fact remains that key demands lodged by Parliament have not been fulfilled and are therefore to be carried over into the discharge procedure for subsequent years, which means that the clear delimitation we desire will become more blurred.
There are two points in particular I would like to highlight.
I am at a loss as to why the Commission has, as yet, failed to take steps to set up a chamber for budgetary discipline at the Court of Auditors or the Court of Justice, and so guarantee the effective application of the provisions of the Financial Regulation concerning the financial liability of officials for damage they cause.
How many times do we have to ask, urge, beseech - and I do not know what else - the Commission to get round to doing something at long last?
Surely this is a reasonable demand?
The same goes for our demand that Parliament, as a discharge authority, should be given at least the same amount of access to the Commission as the Court of Auditors.
After all, the duty to provide information is clearly Treaty-based, i.e. it derives from Article 276 of the Treaty of Rome.
Incidentally, it also seems to me that the advisory office, which was mentioned earlier, would be surplus to requirements, and I do not intend to go into this matter any further at the present time since previous speakers have already taken care of it.
However, both demands are reflected in our amendments and I consider them indisputable.
I would appreciate your support in this.
