Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in our quest for openness, clarity and transparency in relation to animal feed, we are gradually edging closer to the heart of this entire matter, namely the question of which substances are ultimately permissible in animal feed and which are prohibited.
Commissioner Byrne, in connection with the BSE crisis, you hit the nail on the head when you stated that animal material which is not fit for human consumption must not be authorised for use in the production of animal feed either.
Anyone who is familiar with the functioning of the food chain will surely see the logic of this principle.
I thank the Commission for its firm proposal dividing animal by-products into three categories.
It would have been far simpler to prohibit them all without further ado.
That approach has been adopted by the German Federal Government, for example.
The EU, however, has taken the more prudent path, in my opinion, even if it is the more difficult path, as we are all aware.
This difficulty lies in the fact that the materials in the three categories must be registered, stored, processed and marketed separately and that evidence of these operations must be kept.
In our experience, such a requirement presupposes the establishment of an inspection system.
The rapporteur has reintroduced the formulation from the Directive fixing the principles governing the organisation of official inspections in the field of animal nutrition in the EU, and there is a minimum standard here that we must not undercut, namely the principle that experts from the Commission may conduct on-the-spot inspections in cooperation with the authorities in the Member States.
The end justifies the means, the end being that valuable nutrient sources are not simply destroyed but used for a useful purpose - this applies to kitchen waste too - while anything that has no place in the food chain is rejected and destroyed.
One thing is clear: we must ensure that appropriate feed mixes are used for each species; in other words, we are opposed to cannibalism.
This is also something that inspections will have to prevent.
My thanks are due to Mrs Paulsen for her report, which makes the Commission proposal even more specific on several important points, and I hope that the ladies and gentlemen of the House will give it their emphatic support.
