Mr President, Commissioner, research and society face great scientific and ethical challenges in the 21st century.
Genetic engineering applications will play a key role.
I would like to thank Mr Purvis sincerely.
In the last legislative term I drew attention to the importance of genetic engineering in my report on genetic engineering and its impact on agriculture.
We must now at last give the green light to green genetic engineering.
To stick with this theme of colours, consumers have long since given the green light to red genetic engineering, i.e. the application of genetic engineering in medicine.
The advantages are tangible and easy to understand.
In green genetic engineering, its application in agriculture, consumers are, as I say, sadly still showing the red light.
We must also show the red card to extremists.
Biotechnology and gene technology must cease to be the poor relation.
The EU must get on board the moving train of research and application or it will leave without us.
I am worried by the trend of more and more small and medium-sized enterprises pulling out of green biotechnology and gene technology.
The present EU moratorium means that while research is taking place the subsequent application of the product is not being allowed in individual countries.
Undertakings, and with them jobs, are leaving Europe.
In my view, the lights are on amber here.
They must be allowed to change to green.
Of course, whether we are talking about red or green genetic engineering, the ethical bounds to biotechnology and gene technology must be clearly formulated.
I would like to say to the opponents of research that we have a moral obligation to use the opportunities this new technology offers for medicine and for caring for the world population as a whole.
The public will give the green light to biotechnology and gene technology only if they have information and transparency with clearly marked out ethical bounds.
I also appeal to industry to do their part in helping us with the public relations work so that acceptance will increase.
