Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I should like to thank the Commission for the information which it has given us on the fight against BSE and to tell Commissioner Byrne that my impression is that he has the situation in hand and that his proposals are clear and decisive.
I think this is what we need because, apart from BSE, we also have hysteria and panic to deal with in several areas.
This initial information which we have been given is without doubt most comprehensive.
But I must say, Commissioner, that I would have liked to have seen the information on the countries which you so nicely listed compared with the results of controls carried out by food and veterinary health inspectors.
I must say, in all honesty, that I only have to think of the ignorance and squirming with which the Agriculture Council has reacted to proposals over recent months, including Parliament's proposals, to lose all confidence in information provided by Member States and ministers.
Of course, there is always some cause for objection with most measures.
But we all know that the measures being decided now are the result of a failure to act, including over recent years, and we cannot afford to lower our sights.
A few speakers have already referred to tests.
The point is: if we do not test all animals, then the results are meaningless.
I have heard that the abattoirs are simply refusing to slaughter animals.
What is being done?
They are being clubbed without being tested.
That is just not on.
We must intervene here, we must sort this out throughout Europe.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt said we need more and better controls and indeed we do.
But we also need clear-cut, comprehensible laws in Europe.
We shall be dealing with hygiene regulations shortly.
I say to you, in all honesty that, from what I hear from the Member States at the moment, I have no cause for optimism whatsoever.
We are back on the same old merry-go-round, it is just not on.
We need to stand together and give Europe clear-cut laws.
That is the only way to get a grip on the problem.
