Mr President, we have now heard it said several times that Echelon really does exist.
The question is: what does Echelon entail?
It entails a monitoring system which is tantamount to a massive global violation of fundamental rights, infringing not only the privacy of industrial communications but also the privacy of every form of communication between individuals.
This violation of human rights is surely the real scandal of Echelon.
But what exactly is the statement on this issue from the European Parliament?
The essence of the message contained in this report is, in fact, that we condemn this system because it is operated primarily by the United States and because it works too well.
What countermeasure does the report propose?
As a countermeasure, it proposes the establishment of an EU intelligence service.
As we know, there are also monitoring standards such as ETST, and European monitoring plans bearing the name Enfopol have come to light too.
Neither of these points is mentioned in the report, which essentially focuses on the monitoring that is undertaken by national intelligence agencies in violation of fundamental rights.
If we are tempted to follow the path that some Members would wish us to pursue and restrict our efforts to establishing control over the intelligence services, relying on democratic control of these bodies to solve the problem, we must first look at the various secret services around the world; as we do this, it will become clear to us that democratic control has never worked.
I know of no country in which it works.
So in my view it is no solution.
Let me make one more point on the subject of foreign policy, to which several references have already been made.
If an EU armed force is established, the logical consequence would be the creation of an EU intelligence service as well.
I am opposed to both of these developments, because I believe they will result in the militarisation of the EU.
If there is any serious intention to create an area in which peace, security and justice reign supreme, the intelligence services will have to be disbanded; the surveillance authorities will also have to be dissolved.
Then, perhaps, even former employees of the surveillance authorities will be taking advice from computer hackers on how to protect themselves with the utmost effectiveness against government infringement of their fundamental rights.
