Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important report for which I wholeheartedly congratulate Mr Bullmann.
I would like to make two points.
When we talk about the special things Europe is doing and why hopefully in the future we may be a model for the world, we must be able to support our facts with figures.
How do we measure this success?
We have very traditional instruments: GDP or the unemployment rate which, according to research carried out by the Munich-based institute, the IFO, has fallen from 8.1% to 7.6%.
We also have the external value of the euro.
But there are many other indicators we have hitherto not taken into consideration.
That is why I would particularly like to express my support for paragraphs 24 to 29 of this report, which redefine quality of life and quality of employment.
That would help our debate a great deal.
What has also been lacking hitherto is introduced by Amendments No 13 and 17, namely the environmental aspect, which also seems to be a special concern of the Swedish Presidency.
It is an area where there is still much to be done.
To Mr Friedrich, who spoke of the danger of knowing too much, I would say that we are rather in danger of knowing too little.
This particularly concerns Parliament, which brings me to my second point: access to information in the follow-up to the post-Lisbon debate.
It is undignified for preparatory documents on Summit meetings to be slipped surreptitiously into Parliament, and often not before they have first been made available to the press.
There is nothing unifying in this; it is simply divisive.
With the partitioning off that is being practised, especially when Parliament is involved, the Council is doing itself a disservice.
It is simply promoting the delegitimisation of holders of political office.
Why are we in Parliament no longer trusted?
Let the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, or the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, or the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy in.
Give one of the chairmen of our committees, Christa Randzio-Plath for instance, the chance, give Parliament the chance, to work with you on equal terms.
What are you afraid of?
