Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
I should like to start by thanking Mr Ebner for his own initiative report.
This is a report which I can wholeheartedly support.
Given that, as Mr Ebner has just said, mountain regions account for around 30% of the land area in the EU, while in many Member States, such as Austria, they account for as much as 50%, I welcome and support this own initiative report.
The importance of mountain ecosystems is a cultural heritage.
The maintenance and sustainable management of resources is very important in numerous regions of Europe.
The protection of mountain regions, forests, water, the ecological balance and biodiversity needs to be set out in an overall European concept.
Many mountains straddle frontiers.
Many problems can only be solved more efficiently by means of a cross-border approach and by joining forces.
I must stress that farming and forestry have a multifunctional role in mountain regions and that this will be hugely important in an enlarged Union.
Both the people who live in the mountains and the tourists who visit every year looking for rest and relaxation value this unique natural and cultural landscape, which is why we must create appropriate incentives for people to live and work there.
We must take precautions to prevent the ecological and socio-economic consequences of exodus and depopulation.
Sustainable cultivation by mountain farmers not only provides quality food, it also renders a huge service to mankind as a whole.
The United Nations have rightly proclaimed 2002 as the International Year of Mountains.
I think it is important for Europe to take a stance now and for the Commission to present a communication as quickly as possible, setting out a really clear definition, taking account of criteria such as altitude, gradient and the vegetation which has been cut down so that we can really address the various problems throughout Europe, and proposing appropriate concepts for strategies and development mechanisms.
