Mr President, Commissioner, I rise in my capacity as Vice-President of the Japan delegation and welcome the new draft regulation, which at last creates a fundamental legal basis, all be it one which will initially only run to the year 2005, for the projects on promoting cooperation and trade relations.
Firstly, I would like to echo Mrs Mann' s commendation of the Commissioner for the excellent cooperation we have had, but I would especially like to join the group of delegates present here today in praising your work, Mrs Mann, because it was no easy task and I know it has been a tripartite business, involving the Commission, the Member States and Parliament.
We must try to find a reasonable basis, because we will only make progress in this matter if we work together.
I believe that we have, in this new draft regulation, a solid basis for a political and economic debate with the industrialised states.
That is why I do not want to restrict it to trade alone.
I believe it is important to achieve a closer association with the industrialised countries of North America, the Far East and Australasia, and to step up our exchange activities.
This is necessary if we are to press home to people again- including MEPs - the significance of Asia.
I believe there are still some marked differences in this respect.
There are some excellent programmes when it comes to Japan.
I believe the Executive Training Programme in Japan is exemplary and could be adopted elsewhere, indeed there is now a similar project in Korea which is in its pilot phase.
The Gateway to Japan project is also outstanding as a trade promotion project.
Other industrialised countries could emulate it.
Conversely, I believe we delegates should consider taking our example from the relations between the legislative bodies, the American Congress for example, and Asia, because contact between the European Parliament and Asia is not firmly established enough yet.
I therefore believe we should seize on this example, in a bid to build closer relations between the two houses of the Japanese parliament and the European Parliament, and just as the Americans do, working from a legal basis, so should we use the same opportunities with regard to Asia.
Permit me to close with a brief remark.
Even though we have adopted this kind of division of responsibility, partly for reasons of experience, on account of the different legal basis, we should be aware, nonetheless, that we have very different styles of working.
Take for example my area, Asia, which keeps me extremely busy.
I believe we should underpin the ASEM Process much more firmly in political and parliamentary terms.
One thing we must be sure to do is hold a conference for parliamentarians before the next ASEM meeting.
So regardless as to what the legal situation is, Europe and Asia must grow closer together.
