Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to offer my sincere thanks, Madam President, for your invitation and the opportunity to present my thoughts on the future configuration of Europe to this esteemed House.
Europe is becoming an increasingly concrete, increasingly tangible concept to its citizens, because it directly affects them.
In 271 days, the citizens of twelve European countries will have a single currency in their wallets.
We can travel freely through Europe, from Nordkap to Gibraltar.
But do we perceive ourselves as Europeans?
To my mind, it is, as a major European journalist, the Italian Luigi Barzini, once said: "...despite our incontestable diversity and differences, basically all men are built in the same mould..."
We have a rich stock of common traditions, to which Winston Churchill referred in his famous Zurich speech in September 1946.
For him, the common European heritage consisted of the Christian faith and Christian ethics, culture, art, philosophy and science, from antiquity to modern times.
We have all seen quite specific examples of our common interests in Europe.
Surely globalisation is forcing us, as Europeans, to realise that we must not let the diversity of our cultural wealth become the plaything of, or fall victim to, worldwide dumbing down by global media powers, that the challenge to our values by fundamentalists and ethnic cleansing in Europe calls for a common response on our part and that the market should not have free reign but should be harnessed for social and ecological purposes?
Today, we can see just how great an appeal the European Union has in numerous countries.
There are clearly perfectly practical reasons for this and the European Union is, without doubt, becoming more and more useful to all its Member States.
But it is much more than a merely functional community.
Europe stands for a specific concept of human existence and human coexistence.
That is what we are constantly striving for, to strike a balance between the freedom of the individual and his responsibility towards society and the community.
Even the greatest visionaries of the 50s could never have imagined the exact configuration of European unification or just how many areas it would encompass.
The successes of the common market should encourage us to set ourselves new objectives.
However, if we are to be perfectly honest, we must admit that, alongside a broad consensus among many of our citizens, there is also scepticism, mistrust or even total rejection of the European unification project.
I think it is important not to allow doubt and criticism to target individual measures and their impact.
Most of us know how important it is to live in peace after centuries of enmity, how well we have pulled together to increase our prosperity, how many advantages the internal market offers our companies, how much better we can work together in Europe on research and that progress means being able to establish in another European country without any great difficulty or having more and more educational qualifications recognised throughout Europe.
What the people of Europe worry about is how the unfathomable unification process is organised and the minimal influence which they appear to have on it.
Many of our citizens rightly ask who is driving the European unification train?
What speed limit must it keep to?
What traffic regulations apply to it?
How and where are the points set?
What coaches are being coupled to or removed from it?
And where does the journey end?
These are not academic questions.
They are the questions being asked by the sovereign power, i.e. the people, in every country in Europe.
And there can be no doubt that all these questions must be decided by the sovereign power in each of our European democracies, i.e. by the people and only the people.
Now I sometimes hear it said that a democratic process in the traditional sense is no longer possible in Europe because there is no single European nation.
It is true that there is no European nation and no European public in the same way as there is in the individual Member States of the European Union.
But that should not prevent us from strengthening the principles of democracy at European level.
Democracy, rightly understood, means quite simply that people who want to act together for a specific purpose create the rules and procedures needed in order to do so.
This is in no way contradicted by the fact that, in all other cases, these people have quite different interests and want to be sure that these differences are safeguarded.
That is precisely what Europe is doing.
We want to pursue certain common objectives and interests, while preserving the variety of European countries and nations which form the basis of the European Union and make it so special.
And this will, and should not, change in the future.
So the question we need to answer is: how can we organise the European Union so that its citizens can make more sense of it?
What must we do so that decisions taken by the European Union are more broadly justified at European level?
At the end of the day, what should the organisational framework look like?
And I am firmly convinced that the only answer is: we need a European constitution.
(Applause)
A European constitution must become the cornerstone, not the keystone.
A European constitution should stipulate that Europe will not turn into a centralistic superstate and that we are building a "federation of nation states".
I am well aware of the fact that the terms "constitution" and "federation" appear highly suspect to many people in Europe.
But surely this is just a semantic argument?
I am positive that we shall find it easier to agree on what we mean in substance than on the definitions.
We need to discuss the content instead of wrangling over definitions.
(Applause)
A European constitution must be the outcome of a broad debate in every country.
Sceptical and critical voices will be raised in the debate.
There are many weighty objections which I take seriously, even though I personally take a different view.
I should like to discuss some of these today and explain my vision of a European constitution and the road leading to it.
One frequent argument against a constitution is that every additional step in the unification process is yet another step towards a European "superstate" and towards the abolition of the nation states.
But anyone who, like me, is in favour of a federation of nation states, wants exactly the opposite!
If we want a European Union which is a federation of nation states, it is because it improves the democratic credentials of community action, while guaranteeing the nation states the powers which they want to and should retain.
New powers can only then be transferred to Europe if all members of the federation so agree under a transparent and democratically controlled procedure.
Preserving what has been acquired, preventing what is undesirable and remaining receptive to what is new - that is the basis for a constitution for a federation of nation states and that is what I should like to talk about.
No one wants to sideline the nation states and their sovereignty - on the contrary: we shall need them - and all their differences - to guarantee the diversity of Europe for a long time to come.
The implicit or explicit response to the idea of a federation of nation states is that Europe will, in fact, be predicated on the model of the Federal Republic of Germany.
But if you take a closer look, you will see that the idea of a federation is justified for quite different reasons.
The state structures in our European countries have evolved historically; in other words, they are different but equally valid democratic responses to specific historical developments.
And it is precisely because Europe is not moving and should not move towards a centralised state that we need to find an arrangement which reflects this will, which safeguards our various traditions and which, at the same time, is up-to-date.
A federation meets all these requirements.
The point of a federation is that each Member State has sovereign powers to decide on its type of constitution and state structure.
Just as I am loath to let Europe decide on internal arrangements for the Federal Republic of Germany, I am equally loath to dictate how others should organise their own country.
The last thing I want is to impose a federal solution on, say, the Kingdom of Denmark, the Hellenic Republic or the Kingdom of Spain or, one day, the Republic of Hungary, which is not wanted.
It is precisely because we do not want a centralised state that we need a constitution.
What is the function of a constitution in a political community?
A "grammar of freedom" and, especially for us in Europe - a "grammar of solidarity".
In it the sovereign power, i.e. the people, set out the values to which they are committed, the areas in which they delegate their powers, and to whom, and how they wish to organise and limit these powers.
Finally, a constitution regulates who is responsible for what.
The principles of a constitution for a European federation of nation states are the same.
It should consist of three sections.
The first section should contain the Charter of Fundamental Rights proclaimed at the Nice Summit.
(Applause)
It should govern action taken by the European institutions and be binding on the Member States as regards the implementation of European law.
This will not affect the Member States' catalogue of fundamental rights or the European Human Rights Convention.
The second part of a European constitution must set a clear dividing line between the powers of the Member States and the powers of the European Union, thereby defining the fundamental relationship between the Member States and the federation.
In so doing, an effort should be made to give the principle of subsidiarity a broader base.
Only matters which are not better dealt with in the Member States should be decided at European level.
That must be the guideline.
In other words, everything not specifically allocated to Europe should remain the responsibility of the nation states.
In order to counter the fear of creeping centralisation in Europe, I think we should also consider expressly stipulating the powers reserved for the Member States.
I should just like to mention two examples here.
The Member States must be able, even within the framework of a European social policy, to decide on their own old-age pension arrangements or to promote renewable sources of energy within the framework of an environmental policy.
(Applause)
Of course, I know that even the most perfect definition of powers will not spare us conflict in the future.
I agree with Prime Minister Jean-Claude Juncker and numerous other Europeans that we should not stipulate what the EU will never be allowed to do.
The constitution must allow for powers to be regulated differently by unanimous decision of the members of the federation.
In addition to including the Charter of Fundamental Rights and regulating powers, the constitution should comprise a third section on the future institutional structure of Europe.
I spoke at the beginning of the uneasiness of many of our citizens, who experience or feel that they have too little influence on how quickly, in which direction and towards what destination the European unification train is travelling.
They see their democratic rights violated, which is why the question of Europe' s democratic credentials must take centre stage in this debate.
(Applause)
Parliament and the Council of Ministers should - in my view - be developed into a proper two-chamber parliament.
(Loud applause)
The Council of Ministers should become a chamber of state, in which each country votes and is represented by its government.
This chamber would safeguard the sovereignty of the nation states.
The European Parliament - you, honourable Members - should become the citizens' chamber.
Both chambers should have equal decision-making powers in all legislative areas.
(Loud applause)
A great deal of criticism about Europe sticks to the Commission, and often rightly so.
But often the Commission is used as a scapegoat and the hunt for scapegoats is everyone' s favourite pastime!
(Laughter, applause)
I recognise the tendency of almost all national governments to brand decisions which they themselves have taken at European level as the monstrous invention of European regulatory mania ...
(Loud applause) ... when they come up against opposition in their own country, as I am sure you are aware.
However, that does nothing to mitigate justified criticism that, given its importance, the Commission lacks democratic credentials for its work and we must change this.
As you know, there are two models for this: either the people directly elect the Commission president or the Commission president is elected by the two chambers of Parliament.
(Loud applause)
I prefer the parliamentary model, whereby the Commission can count on a parliamentary majority.
(Loud applause)
But irrespective of which route is taken towards a constitution, a stronger parliament with two chambers and a Commission with better democratic credentials can give new, decisive momentum to the European idea.
The citizens of Europe will be more interested in what is going on in Brussels, Strasbourg and Luxembourg, they will identify more closely with it, even if they disagree with certain decisions.
A stronger parliament would, I am sure, also help the parties to be European parties in fact and not just in name.
(Applause)
The reform of the European institutions would also help to bring about broader publicity at European level, which we sorely need.
There are already issues which concern people all over Europe.
Just think of the euro, its internal stability and its external value.
Just think of peace in our corner of the world, the desire for healthy food or the rules governing transfers of football players within Europe.
We must ensure during the constitutional debate that the Commission continues to represent the Community' s interests.
(Applause)
This mainstay of the European unification process, the Commission' s right of initiative, must stay.
(Applause)
Debates over recent months have shown that the intergovernmental method has reached the end of its useful life.
(Loud applause)
And we are still only a Europe of the Fifteen!
We all know that politics are a question not just of the right objectives but of how they can best be achieved.
So how should the route towards a European constitution be constructed, what shape should the "process for the future of Europe", as it is so aptly called, take?
The debate on the future of Europe should be broader than the debate held in a classic type of Intergovernmental Conference.
(Applause)
When the convention to prepare the European Charter of Fundamental Rights was set up in 1999, there were a lot of sceptics.
As I am sure you agree, rarely has a European committee worked as well as this convention in recent years.
(Applause)
I think it was exemplary.
We should therefore discuss the future of Europe in a broadly composed committee in which government representatives, members of national parliaments and, of course, the European Parliament, all play an important role.
(Applause)
This is where the decisions needed should be prepared as comprehensively as possible.
We should be extremely careful and make every effort to ensure that the debate on the future of Europe is not just held in expert circles.
We must involve all interested citizens.
I agree with my Italian colleague, President Ciampi, and many other people that we must also involve the citizens of the candidate countries in this debate.
(Applause)
The future European constitution will also be their future order.
Ladies and gentlemen, exercise your rights as freely elected members of Parliament.
Make use of the opportunity which you have to take Europe forward.
You have more influence than many would have you believe.
Help to make Europe real for the citizens of our countries.
You have already done so much.
Keep up the good work.
I am with you all the way!
(Long, loud standing ovation)
