Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 'telecom package' , the main parts of which are now being put to the vote in Parliament, is an ambitious venture which, in principle, deserves our support.
It makes perfect sense to want to simplify and organise the current legal framework of no less than 28 different legal texts more clearly.
That a horizontal approach has been chosen is logical and to be welcomed.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport has called unanimously in its opinions on the various reports for care to be taken in all regulations on electronic communications networks and services so as to ensure that no conditions are attached to access which might, in the final analysis, have an adverse effect on the broad range of content.
In other words, we must ensure that networks and services of general interest are adequately disseminated.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport also sees a need for harmonisation measures within the internal market, but in a wider sense than the Commission, which wants to consolidate its powers here.
The institutions have agreed, after years of arduous discussion, that different legal rules are needed for infrastructure and content.
They have likewise agreed that there are links between the routes and the content disseminated via them and that these links must be duly acknowledged and taken into account in the interests of cultural variety and democratic opinion-forming within society.
The market can do a great deal, but it cannot do everything.
In plain text this means, for example, that in order to safeguard pluralism and a variety of opinions, the widespread dissemination of a range of content to a wide public must be guaranteed under a 'must carry' obligation, with the Member States alone responsible for putting the flesh on the bones of such a regulation.
We must make it clear that Europe has no business interfering in national and regional radio sovereignty.
From this point of view, the principle of coordination before harmonisation applies.
