Mr President, I was given the opportunity to take part in the work on Echelon as a representative of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which was a very welcome change, and I should like to concentrate on a few legal and institutional aspects of that work.
The rapporteur is to be congratulated on presenting us today with a report which is exceptional in terms of both methodology and content.
Another exceptional feature of the report, to my mind, is the response it has already evoked far beyond the bounds of the European Union.
Just recently I had the opportunity to discuss the contents of the report with prominent US senators.
Firstly, they were very familiar with the report - which is highly unusual for one of our parliamentary reports - and, secondly, they did not question its findings and even expressly confirmed the designation or codename Echelon.
How different this was to the situation only a few months ago, a situation that had prevailed over a number of years, when the observations we made in the pursuit of our efforts to clarify the Echelon question fell on many a deaf ear.
The dismissive and stonewalling replies to the questions we have put to past and present commissioners, such as Mr Bangemann and Mr Bolkestein, as well as to the Council, fill bulky volumes in our private archives.
This makes our constructive cooperation on this occasion with Commissioners Liikanen and Vitorino all the more gratifying, and I should like to lay special emphasis on that point.
I am therefore confident that the Commission will help us to ensure that the concrete measures proposed in our draft report are actually taken, particularly the legislative measures to improve the protection of European citizens and European companies, the specific proposal for an additional protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights which would elucidate Article 8, efforts to reach a much needed agreement with the United States and many more measures besides.
We must appeal to the Member States to desist from any illegal activities in which they may have been engaging, to exercise more effective democratic control of their intelligence agencies and to attach greater importance to protecting the rights of all citizens of the European Union in addition to those of their own nationals.
