Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes today's debate on the situation in Turkish prisons.
Parliamentary representatives, the presidency and the Commission have all endeavoured over recent weeks to resolve this serious humanitarian problem.
The forthcoming visit of the prisons by a delegation from the European Parliament will give new impetus to the reform of the criminal justice system in Turkey.
The Commission deeply regrets that 22 people have already died during the hunger strike in Turkey, while many others are suffering terribly.
Their condition is worsening day by day.
Many will be staring death in the face if no way is found of ending this hunger strike.
Quite apart from where the organisers stand politically, the Commission feels that the current situation gives serious cause for concern on humanitarian grounds.
The situation in Turkish prisons was one of the main topics of conversation between me and the Turkish foreign minister in Brussels yesterday morning.
It was clear from what was said that the Turkish government feels that action is needed in order to avoid more deaths.
In this respect, the Commission welcomes the fact that the Turkish parliament has already passed an amendment to Article 16 of the Turkish anti-terrorist law.
The main point of this new regulation is that it allows prisoners to take part in social activities while serving their sentence.
We must call on Turkey today to ensure that the new regulation is implemented as quickly as possible, so that the conditions of detention in the prisons actually improve.
The Turkish foreign minister also informed me that two other bills are being drafted which will guarantee that sentences are properly executed.
One of these two laws makes provision for a new penal monitoring committee made up of representatives from Turkish NGOs.
The second law requires that a judge oversee the execution of sentences.
Both laws have already been adopted by the committee on legal affairs of the Turkish parliament and are due to be debated in the Turkish national assembly very soon.
I should like to stress that the Commission attaches great importance to further judicial and penal reform.
The Commission supports the recommendations of the European Committee for the Prevention of Torture, as we set out quite clearly in the accession partnership.
The situation in Turkish prisons was a cause of concern to the Commission even before the unrest broke out and the hunger strike began.
The Commission repeats the call it made to the Turkish government on 21 March 2001, i.e. that it take all appropriate measures to prevent further deaths.
Suitable medical care must also be provided.
The Turkish government and Parliament should continue to work together to speed up the reform of the criminal justice system in Turkey.
We expect human rights to be respected everywhere in any country wanting to become a member of the European Union, including in its prisons.
The Commission also urges the organisers of the hunger strike to distance themselves immediately from any action or demands which might lead to further loss of life.
Those who have taken it upon themselves to represent the interests of detainees should prove first and foremost that they no longer intend to risk the lives or welfare of the detainees.
In every situation, care must be taken to avoid endangering human life or health for reasons of political expediency.
The Commission is certain that further loss of life can be prevented and that the conditions of detention in Turkish prisons can be improved if everyone involved, including the organisers of the hunger strike, acts with restraint and a sense of responsibility.
