Mr President, what kind of generosity would it be that confined itself to the large groups?
It would be a power-based generosity that I would not like to think you capable of!
Ladies and gentlemen, if we are to resolve the crisis of European integration it is time to speak openly.
We are witnessing and involved in a struggle for power in Europe.
It is not a matter of federal state versus confederation or about a superstate versus subsidiarity.
It is about democracy versus the national executives' desire for power, versus a Europe of clandestine cooperation between governments and de facto legislation by governments.
It is about transforming the European project from a thing of administrative elites into a res publica.
The Intergovernmental Conference in Nice was a failure.
The EU has become neither more democratic nor more capable of action nor ready for enlargement.
The Intergovernmental Conference has proved to be an unsuitable instrument.
The heads of state and government are making Europe into a bazaar of national interests.
At half past three in the morning between their calvados and the fireplace they exchange fish quotas for basic rights, agreement on enlargement for farm subsidies.
After Nice they called for a celebration not for what they had done for Europe but for what they had deprived Europe of.
Instead of doing their duty under the Treaty of moving Europe forward, they turned out to be advocates of national identity while expressing surprise about the likes of Haider and Berlusconi.
The same people who failed in Nice now want to be not only government and legislator and lords of the Treaties, but also the creators of Europe' s constitution!
Honourable Members, it is time for Europe' s parliaments to remember why they are really there, that it is for them and them alone to create a constitution.
It is time to show Europe' s princes that there is another Europe, a European democracy and a Europe that is a social area.
It is the hour of the parliaments.
It is the duty of the parliaments and I am glad that this Parliament is forging an alliance of parliaments for a European democracy!
Ladies and gentlemen, I am terribly bored with the debate about a federal state or a confederation!
We can confidently leave that to the next generation, but not the question of European democracy.
That is the challenge if we are one day to be able to say: Vive la République d'Europe!
Long live the European Republic!
