Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we must also draw conclusions as regards civil aviation.
We need to take steps to prevent similar terrorist attacks again taking place in or from the air.
In the immediate future we need increased security for air travellers, preferably at international level.
Let us each, though, start with our airports at home.
We need stricter checks on luggage and hand luggage.
We need tighter checks on airport workers.
Above all, it will not be enough for controls at airports to be more stringent today and tomorrow if, in six months' time, they have been relaxed again in certain parts of Europe.
No, we need strict controls on a permanent basis.
Looking at specific cases, there is probably a need for armed flight attendants on certain routes, and we must consider the need to secure the cockpit against terrorist attacks, for we must prevent aircraft becoming the biggest weapons in the world.
Although the safety of passengers is our primary concern, our secondary concern is that, at present, the number of passengers carried by airlines is showing a massive decrease.
We must keep an eye on this situation.
Is the number of passengers falling as a consequence of the terrorist attacks, or because of market conditions or structural factors?
As we read in today's newspapers, certain governments are demanding subsidies and yet more subsidies, but these cannot be the solution.
My group rejects subsidies for airlines.
We must give thought to how we can help them.
We can do this by coming to an agreement on code sharing and by permitting the restructuring of the companies, along with mergers and acquisitions.
This would be a more elegant solution, keeping them competitive, but we must not pay out subsidies indiscriminately
The situation can, of course, change.
If the USA supports its airlines to the tune of massive amounts, then we will have to see what effect that has on the transatlantic market.
Under such circumstances, we will not be able simply to leave our airlines on the outside looking in, but let us be clear-sighted about this.
First of all, however, we need increased security for passengers.
