Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, one honourable Member - he is no longer present in the Chamber - said today that he felt the "role is with the parties themselves" .
If that were to be the case, and it was solely down to the warring parties, then I ask myself where is peace to be found?
Where have they managed to secure peace, and maintain it too?
No, I believe there is a need for mediation - and I would agree with all those who have made this point - especially with robust European participation.
Because unfortunately, hatred, coercion and attempts to put the partner under pressure using these methods, have regained the upper hand.
I do not feel, as has been said here, that we can expect to see the situation improve after the elections in Israel, particularly if Sharon takes over, bearing in mind what happened under Menachem Begin.
The point being that Mr Sharon has done nothing recently that could lead us to conclude that he is prepared to agree a peace deal.
On the contrary, his road to power is paved with various measures that prove the opposite to be true.
I completely agree with Commissioner Patten.
During all attempts to engage in talks - with both parties, of course - and indeed, that is the only way to perform a mediation role, we must make it crystal clear that we cannot tolerate a situation where the resources we deploy in the Middle East cannot be used productively because Israel, in particular, is putting Palestine under such pressure and cutting it off.
I have already come across this several times before in Parliament - the more Israel endeavours to cut off Palestine' s lifeline, the more aid Europe will send, which means that Israel can save on financial input to the peace process to a certain extent, and Europe alone then has to pick up the tab.
This is completely unacceptable.
If we must shoulder this financial burden - and I, for one, truly feel that we must - then obviously there must also be strong political engagement.
Notwithstanding all the pessimism, which unfortunately, I myself share, I hope that the High Representative will ultimately prove justified in his optimism, and that he will be able to strengthen Europe' s role.
If the US were to withdraw from the process or keep more in the background, clearly this would be Europe' s big chance to play a fitting political role in the Middle East.
