Mr President, honourable Members, the European Parliament has played an important part in the whole discussion about Commission administrative reform.
The Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control have also played a key role in the question of externalisation.
The rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges, in particular provided the initial impulse for the proposal for a regulation that is now before us.
I should like to thank you for your continued cooperation in working out the proposal and also the report.
I have to say that Mr Bourlanges already impressed me when he presented his magnum opus on externalisation in November 1999.
It is after all very difficult to produce good literature.
Many people would say that creating a literary work on externalisation was an impossible task.
But you really succeeded in presenting something of high literary value with this first report on externalisation.
My warmest congratulations.
It is now recognised that the Commission as a whole must concentrate more on its fundamental tasks.
That is the very reason why the subject of externalisation is being discussed, namely in response to the question of which tasks could be performed in a way other than within the Commission' s present administrative structures.
The plan envisages three methods and forms of externalisation, namely externalisation in the form of a delegation of tasks to executive agencies, the delegation of tasks to national agencies, i.e. decentralisation, and the assignment of tasks by contract to third parties.
The framework regulation for executive agencies defines a new form of Community institution that operates in the service of the Commission and has the task of managing and implementing Community programmes independently on the Commission' s behalf, including the associated execution of budget resources.
The regulation therefore provides the framework for the creation of executive agencies that the Commission will set up as and when required.
In this connection I should like to highlight the most important points once again.
An executive agency is an instrument in the hands of and under the control of the Commission.
This also again makes it clear that it is wrong to equate externalisation with privatisation, as often happens in the debate, especially with officials.
You made it very clear, Mr Bourlanges, that such is not the case.
It means that the Commission' s responsibility for the execution of the budget under Article 274 of the EC Treaty is retained without qualification.
That is a point that has just been emphasised again by the Committee on Budgetary Control and also by you, Mrs Theato.
An executive agency is set up by the Commission.
The agency' s management bodies are appointed by the Commission.
The Commission exercises control through its own departments.
The operational resources managed by the agency remain in the European Union' s general budget and are administered by the agency in its capacity as an authorising party by delegation of the Commission.
The prerogatives of the budgetary authority are preserved.
The budgetary authority approves the allocation to the agency' s administrative resources.
The agency' s establishment plan is submitted to the budgetary authority as part of the budgetary procedure.
We are unable to go along with the suggestion that a fixed percentage of the agency' s staff should be Commission officials.
Regarding the duration of the contracts, however, I can point out that setting up executive agencies only makes sense for tasks taking rather longer than one year.
That therefore means that contracts for contract personnel will run correspondingly longer.
I should also like to add that the European Parliament grants the discharge for the execution of the executive agency' s administrative and operational resources.
To sum up, the Commission is able to accept the following amendments: Nos 1, 2, 4, 6, 8, 9, 12 in part, as well as Amendments Nos 16, paragraphs 1 and 2, in part and 17 and 21 in part.
I should like to thank the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control for their critical scrutiny of our proposal.
Their contributions will make our proposal more balanced and bring us a step closer to our goal of increasing administrative efficiency.
