In answer to the honourable Member' s first question, may I say that it is indeed a matter of the utmost urgency that the people of our Member States should be made more aware of the enlargement process.
As you will know, this is one of my pet subjects, and my team and I have been working especially hard to achieve progress.
Things have certainly improved in this area, but the general level of public awareness is not yet satisfactory, and the subject is not one that sells itself automatically.
People must be told what is at stake, and we must address the anxieties, concerns and fears that are associated with enlargement and tell our people quite openly and clearly what we are doing to ensure that the contingencies they fear will not materialise.
Secondly, applications to take part in this project must indeed pass through our offices in the national capitals, because the whole project is decentralised, as I said before, and because we naturally wish to tap into the synergetic potential that exists in our Member States and in the candidate countries.
We are not the only ones, of course, who are active in this field.
Responsibility is spread somewhat more widely.
Others must also play their part in the communication process, and so it is only reasonable that we should devote part of our effort to the quest for coordination and cross-fertilisation.
That, then, is why the project is decentralised, and if you know of any organisations or groups that would like to be involved in this campaign, the right answer to give them is that they should contact the office of the European Commission in the relevant capital.
As far as the twinning of towns, schools, local councils, etc., is concerned, I believe these arrangements fall into the category of 'existing communication structures' .
My personal view is that town-twinning arrangements can be an extremely useful instrument in this context, because they enable us to operate through existing contacts and avoid the need to establish these contacts from scratch.
I also believe that exchanges between local politicians and schools are extremely valuable.
Our delegations and offices in the national capitals have been fully briefed on the eligibility of these schemes for support from the campaign budget.
