Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as this debate draws to a close allow me to point out that there are considerable expectations of the way in which the European Union acts in this important part of the world.
It is not the case that we are free to decide with no adverse consequences whether to become involved there or whether to opt out; no, the countries in this part of Asia have very particular and well-founded expectations that the Europeans will become engaged in their part of the world.
These expectations exist because there the power of the United States of America in terms of both the economy and security is an established fact and because China is next door and is gaining increasing influence.
In this power play, the expectations of many states in South-East Asia are focused on the Europeans considering establishing what the Asians call a strategic partnership, obviously with the aim of producing greater stability and creating a balance between the major powers there in the interests of the Asian states.
These have had their first experiences of rapid economic growth which was then slowed by the crisis, and now they see that they have an opportunity to leave this crisis behind.
At the same time they realise how essential it is for them to find their way out of the crisis in partnership with others, and not least with the European Union.
That is why, as I have said, it is not simply a question of our own interests, how and on what conditions we get involved there; instead we are in a situation where expectations are pinned on us.
That is why we are not free either to say, no we will do that or we will leave that; we are obliged to become involved in this part of the world.
This opens up huge possibilities.
If we behave there, not as colonialists as we did in the past, but as partners who are prepared to contribute their own experiences alongside those of another continent, we will be listened to.
Under no circumstances must we Europeans let this opportunity pass us by!
