Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the denial of democracy and a social dimension in European integration is creating conflicts.
What is our response?
Countless young people have waited all summer for this first session of the European Parliament.
In Genoa, they encountered a state and a Europe which have deeply traumatised them.
Their trauma is heightened every day that we fail to give them a satisfactory response.
What is this Parliament' s response?
On the first day, Mr Poettering congratulated Mr Berlusconi.
The Christian Democrats and right-wingers in this House have rejected the resolution and made it clear that they will also reject a committee of enquiry.
Let me make it clear what they are identifying themselves with: police violence, systematic brutality and even torture in the prisons or at the time of arrest, hundreds of arbitrary arrests, sexual harassment, and Nazi slogans in the police stations.
I was in Genoa for a week.
I visited the prisons.
I spoke to the people in charge, and I took notes for ten hours with people who had been systematically abused and mistreated, in some cases for up to thirty hours.
Yet you want to sweep everything under the table!
The Christian Democrats are allowing the Italian right to dictate the course of today' s debate.
One of them even had the gall to say that there is no evidence.
Ladies and gentlemen, please vote for an enquiry.
We will provide bags full of evidence of hundreds of cases of torture, abuse, brutality and excesses by the police.
This is not merely a matter for the Italian police, for these young people all over Europe have waited for this first session, hopeful that the guardians of fundamental rights sit here in this House and that this House will not remain silent or make common cause with Italy' s rightist government.
Let me say a few bitter words as an Austrian.
What would have happened if these appalling events at a summit had taken place in Austria a year ago?
One dead, 500 injured, 470 arrested and imprisoned, with 90% of them having to be released later due to lack of evidence because the police had picked them up at random as much as 50 km outside Genoa and trumped up evidence against them.
This has a European dimension, and this House must address the issue....
(The President cut the speaker off)
