Mr President, the worst natural disaster since the creation of the Indian Union has left the world' s largest democracy in a state of deep shock.
It is not only India that has been stunned by events.
The pictures of the devastation in the State of Gujarat are etched in all our minds: one hundred thousand killed and several hundred thousand forced to leave their homes which have been completely destroyed - these people are now homeless, destitute and without work.
I have been struck by the scale of the rapid response from the international community and the donations from private individuals.
What fine examples of humanity and solidarity in an increasingly unfeeling world.
Special teams, including several from Europe, were on hand to pull survivors out of the rubble.
Help is flooding in.
Medical supplies, food by the tonne load, clothing, blankets, installations to help provide clean drinking water and also prevent the outbreak of typhoid, cholera and hepatitis.
Row upon row of tents have been erected to provide essential, albeit makeshift, refuge against the bitterly cold nights.
This is all a source of comfort to the earthquake victims and their family members, many of whom reside in the European Union.
The Commission has generously released EUR 13 million in emergency aid and there is a good chance that this aid package, distributed via the European Community Humanitarian Aid Office to six international aid organisations, will directly reach the earthquake victims.
The World Bank and the Asian Development Bank will also be involved in achieving the successful reconstruction of the region.
The damage to property alone amounts to over EUR 3 billion.
And what actions have the Indians themselves taken?
They have set up a committee, supported by all parties, dedicated to active disaster management.
The authorities have acted quickly despite a series of aftershocks.
The electricity supply was restored within days and towns were able to get back on their feet as streets and squares were cleared.
We should applaud the efforts of our Indian friends.
Floods in Portugal
