Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, hats off to the rapporteur and to the shadow rapporteur!
They have worked unstintingly and single-mindedly to present this marvellous document.
I believe that, with this report, we have fired the starting signal for the enhancement of food safety in the European Union.
As the rapporteur for the specific hygiene provisions, I could only proceed on the basis of clear and firm views, one of which is reflected in the fact that Parliament has never questioned the use of a regulation as the legal instrument.
I lay particular emphasis on this, because there are different perceptions within the Council.
That is why I wish to re-emphasise that a regulation is the only legal instrument for this and the other five sets of provisions.
Nothing else would be acceptable to us.
Regulations naturally require extensive amendments to national food legislation, but that, I believe, is the only way to remove inconsistencies and close loopholes.
The approach taken in the draft regulation, whereby food producers are to be made more responsible for the safety and quality of their products, is certainly right and proper, but to the same extent more onerous verification duties must be imposed on governments too.
This applies not only to the scope and frequency of inspections but also to their quality.
The professional competence and background knowledge of inspectors must be improved.
This is no job for auxiliary staff, and recent cutbacks in this domain must be reversed.
As for the Food Authority itself, I must stress the importance of a clear definition of its responsibilities.
Food safety must be its main concern, and its role must be confined to risk analysis.
For this reason we should not include in this regulation extraneous issues such as quality, nutritional value and so on.
The seat of the authority has frequently been discussed.
Parliament, whether or not it has codecision rights in this matter, has laid down clear criteria that should be applied, and let me say that we must not allow another dilemma to arise like the one in Dublin, a situation in which an authority cannot operate because the basic conditions are not right.
