Madam President, allow me, without mentioning this proposal - of which I am in favour - to make just one small remark: I am campaigning somewhat for the respect of the large groups.
It is the responsibility of the first vice-chairman to represent a committee chairman, not of a member of his group.
I would ask Mr Corbett to show the office of vice-chairman in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs this minimum respect in future.
(Parliament rejected the request)
President.
The reports will not be placed on the agenda.
They will of course be dealt with at one of the forthcoming part-sessions, Mr Corbett.
Relating to Tuesday:
I have some information to share with you.
I have no requests for amendment, but I would like to tell you that, unfortunately, Mr Michel, the Foreign Minister and also joint chair of the Conference Against Racism, is still in Durban and he will be unable to attend the sitting tomorrow, Tuesday 4 September.
This is as much a disappointment to me as it is to you.
Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck, joint minister at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs will represent the Council at the debate.
I have a second piece of information, which is that the Commission communication regarding the White Paper on European Governance shall be followed by consultation with the political groups, on the understanding that the main debate will take place at the next part-session or at the October 1 part-session at the latest.
Relating to Wednesday:
I have three requests for amendment to Wednesday' s agenda.
First of all, the Group of the Party of European Socialists would like to re-organise the day' s proceedings, which are scheduled as follows: the Council and Commission statement on the conclusions of the meeting at Genoa, followed by the Watson report.
The Socialist Group proposes that we begin at 9 a.m. with Gerhard Schmid' s report on Echelon, followed by the report by Mr Watson on the fight against terrorism.
The Council and Commission statement on the Genoa conclusions would be postponed until the afternoon to be dealt with between 3 p.m. and 5 p.m.
The rest of the agenda remains unchanged.
I shall now give the floor to Mr Barón Crespo who will speak in favour of the request by his group.
