Mr President, just a year and a half on from the start of the war, Parliament' s initial assessment has been proved right.
It has proved impossible to solve any of the problems by military means, and all parties have been the losers.
It is tragic that each side should resort to unacceptable methods in response to the other side' s resistance instead of finally sitting down at the negotiating table and beginning the process of reconstruction.
I welcome the commitment of Parliament to respect for human rights in the refugee and prison camps.
In a situation where violence is used on a routine basis, our delegations, observer missions and resolutions may be able to ease the problem, but I am convinced that they will not solve it.
This is why I believe that one of our priorities will be to help this region to shape a new vision for the future.
The first requirement is intensive dialogue.
To this end, we should continue to use all the means available to us through our links with the Russian Duma.
Sweeping condemnations, however, are unhelpful.
We shall only be able to make progress in negotiations with the Russians if we take their concerns seriously too.
Terrorist attacks in southern Russia and military operations by guerrillas in Chechnya, I am sorry to say, are still taking place.
A short time ago, we adopted the Oostlander report, in which we explicitly welcomed the European Union' s twin-track strategy in relation to Russia.
The human rights violations in Chechnya must be condemned, but at the same time we must continue to develop cooperation and dialogue.
In my opinion, both components of this strategy offer scope for further development.
As far as Chechnya is concerned, however, I am worried.
It seems to me that the criticism of conditions in the refugee and prison camps which is voiced by the Council and the Commission, as well as by the governments of the Member States, whenever they meet with the Russians, has become something of a mechanical routine which has absolutely no effect.
For that reason I should like to ask the Commission to specify the measures it proposes to take in the immediate future in order to make progress towards a political solution to the conflict in Chechnya.
