Mr President, I should like to begin with a word of gratitude and congratulation to our rapporteur.
I believe the parliamentary delegation to the Conciliation Committee fought very hard before reluctantly consenting to the result of the conciliation process, and that is also how my group will vote in the Chamber.
Nevertheless, we cannot be satisfied with the joint text.
The European Parliament wanted a binding directive rather than polite recommendations.
The Member States dug their heels in and must now take responsibility for the stagnation of environmental policy in the Union.
At the present time, proceedings for infringement or non-observance of current environmental legislation are pending in more than 150 cases.
As much as this Parliament rejoices at every step forward in the field of environmental policy, we also have every reason to doubt the sincerity of the Union' s commitment to the environment if it omits the most important step, namely the application of its policy, the enforcement of its rules.
The best legislation is worthless if it is not enforced.
The conditions we imposed, namely the coordination of inspections between Member States in cases of cross-border environmental crimes and the publication of inspection reports two months after each inspection, represent an improvement.
But Parliament' s most important demand, in my opinion, relates to the revision clause which Mrs Jackson described, the clause requiring the Commission to present a report to Parliament after two years on the application and impact of the recommendation and, should it prove to be a dead letter - which I fully expect it to be - to present a proposal for a directive too.
Since I do not quite trust the very wishy-washy wording of this revision clause, which now states that the Commission should present such a report as soon as possible, rather than in two years' time, I must ask Commissioner Wallström to reaffirm her determination to ensure that this report will be on the table in slightly more than two years from now.
I do hope, of course, that the report will provide evidence that the recommendation has borne fruit, that our environmental legislation has become more effective, that the situation has improved.
At the present time, however, although I have heard the message, I am still lacking in faith.
