Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe has a very good chance of achieving the major objective set in Lisbon, i.e. of becoming the most competitive area with full employment.
The economic indicators are good, but this objective will not achieve itself and it will not implement itself.
We must have the courage to set decisive priorities.
Lisbon gave us clear guidelines within which to find the courage to set decisive priorities and move forward using a method of open coordination between the Member States.
These guidelines are clear and unequivocal.
They mean investing in people and in their skills and we have good cause to do so.
On the one hand, we talk of the new opportunities offered by information and communications technologies and of the millions of jobs which they can create.
But on the other hand, fewer than 22% of our employees are given specific training.
We talk of the opportunities of a new European labour market and mobility for the young generation, but we stop short of creating the right conditions for it in our schools and on our vocational training programmes.
We talk of already having bottlenecks on the specialist job markets, but we seem unable to implement a specific integration policy to help the unemployed - and there are well over 14 million in the European Union - make their own contribution to the working population.
I ask you, Mr President of the Commission, and I ask you, Madam President-in-Office: there has been talk here of the stability pact, which was supposedly a success.
Why are we unable to apply the same rigour, the same clear method of open coordination so as to ensure that every young person on the European labour market has a suitable chance to get started in a new European future?
That is the brief for Stockholm, that is the brief for the following summit, which is precisely why Stockholm must not degenerate into a one-sided liberalisation summit.
I know that the balance spoken of here is in jeopardy, which is why I call on you, Madam President-in-Office, to summon up the strength and courage in the Swedish Presidency to put the integrated policy of economic reform, social cohesion and job promotion which we welcomed into practice.
This is precisely why we need clear, uncompromising interim objectives, both for the employment process and for the new public budget guidelines.
