Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on the common strategy of the European Union on Ukraine comes before plenary at a time when it is no longer possible to keep track of the symptoms of crisis in this huge, important country at the crossroads between east and west.
The murder of the journalist Georgiy Gongadze and the subsequent demonstrations, some of which were countered with violence, highlight the inner weaknesses and democratic deficits in this country eleven years after its secession from the Soviet Union.
The rapporteur, whom I should like to thank, is equally conscious of these facts and of Ukraine' s economic plight, with its high foreign debt and even higher exodus of capital, where large sections of the population live in poverty and wealth is concentrated in a few hands.
That this is a breeding ground for corruption and international organised crime cannot be a matter of indifference to us.
Human trafficking in general and the trade in women in particular and illegal immigration have a spill-over effect on the European Union and need to be effectively combated, with the help of the European Union, especially as, once Poland, Hungary, Slovakia and Romania accede, Ukraine will form the external border of the EU.
The common strategy on Ukraine and the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with it rightly seek to consolidate democracy, the economy and society and bring Ukraine closer to the EU's system of values.
What has been done so far still falls short of the mark, despite the funds which the European Union has given Ukraine.
Ukraine itself has set itself the ambitious target of being ready for accession by 2007.
Even if this sounds more like pie in the sky under the present circumstances, the Väyrynen report points in the right direction by finally giving Ukraine the prospect of accession and by mooting the possibility of a free trade agreement without precluding accession at a later date.
With the enlargement of the EU imminent, everything should also be done in the form of cross-border programmes and assistance with border management in order to avoid erecting new dividing lines in Europe.
This is all the more important in that Ukraine plays a fundamental role in European security, both as a result of its commitment in ex-Yugoslavia and its involvement in the Partnership for Peace, as the Charter on a Distinctive Partnership with NATO proves.
The Ukraine also plays an important role in the network of relations between the EU and Russia and as a regional force for order.
The Väyrynen report shows how we can help Ukraine to help itself and extend our mutual relations.
