Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the parliamentary delegation that was in Yugoslavia a few days ago saw a Yugoslavia, a Serbia, in transition.
The future shape of the country is the subject of intensive discussion, and there is much talk of decentralisation, even in Serbia itself, and of a new relationship with the ethnic minorities.
Another subject that is frequently discussed is the need to strengthen local government and, particularly in southern Serbia, the need to give the Albanian minority fair representation in the local authorities, where the rules have hitherto been stacked against them.
Every act of violence, whether in southern Serbia or in Mitrovica, disrupts the painstaking peace process that is currently taking place in the Balkans.
The Yugoslav and Serb authorities must naturally take a firm line in their dealings with the minorities.
That is what we in Parliament have always advocated and will continue to advocate, and there is no room for compromise there.
It is important, however, that the measures taken should be realistic.
Elections in Kosovo are certainly one such measure, but they must be preceded by a precise definition of the powers and authority that the elected representatives will have.
The present problems cannot be solved overnight.
They can only be solved by a consensus of all interested parties, states and ethnic groups.
That is a complex process, and I entirely agree with Mrs Pack, perhaps not in detail but certainly in principle, that Europe must take the initiative here, because none of the parties in the Balkans enjoys the level of trust that would enable it to launch a successful peace initiative at this stage.
Only the European Union enjoys that level of trust.
Neither the United States of America nor Russia nor any of the Balkan States and societies have the requisite degree of authority.
And if Europe were caught napping now, that would pose serious problems.
I can only agree with another of the previous speakers, Mr Posselt, on the money issue.
We already pay out enough in the world and in particular regions without having a stabilising influence.
It must be different in the Balkans.
We are willing to pay, but we also want to have a say, so that stability and peace can be established in the region.
