Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we know from estimates by Europol that approximately 30% of all crime can already be attributed to organised crime.
We also know that, in the meantime, organised crime has earned billions of euros in various sectors.
For example - and these too are figures from confirmed sources - human traffickers alone launder some EUR 1.1 billion from their work, namely getting illegal immigrants over the border, and some EUR 51 billion are laundered in the European Union from drug dealing in eastern Europe every year.
All this money - and this is the worrying thing - gets into legal circulation.
Once it does so, it damages the legal economy and undermines our whole social system.
Organised crime does all this by using the instruments of money laundering.
New methods have been introduced, because the old ones do not work any more.
New professions are being used, or rather abused and involved in all cases.
As a result, the situation is now such that we need to create a new instrument, because we can no longer manage with the old 1991 directive.
Hence the proposal for this new directive, where the list of offences no longer refers to drug-related crime and has been extended to all forms of organised crime, taking account, of course, of all professions and branches of the economy which run the risk of becoming involved in the business of money laundering.
But, in creating this new directive, we must bear one thing in mind: the objective is to fight organised crime and the instruments which we create must be practicable, which is why I emphatically support what Mr Lehne has done in his report, because he is pursuing precisely these objectives, unlike the Council, which has left certain aspects out of consideration; at any rate, it appears to have lost sight of the practicability factor.
The Lehne proposal - as Mr Lehne himself has pointed out - is a proposal which does not affect normal citizens looking for an apartment somewhere; on the contrary, it gets to the crux of the matter: only when a transaction is completed need identification be requested.
It refers to orders of magnitude which are relevant to the money laundering business and which do not affect the man in the street when he pops into a bank somewhere.
It includes all professions which use services such as banks.
In other words, it is a practicable proposal.
I therefore hope that it will receive Parliament' s full and broad support because it will allow us to create an efficient instrument in the fight against organised crime.
