Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, when we talk about food supplements, we chiefly mean vitamins, minerals, fatty acids, amino acids and certain other substances.
So we are not talking about enriched food, nor about food additives.
We are talking about concentrated sources of nutrients supplied either individually or combined in the form of capsules, tablets, powder or similar presentations.
Vitamins and minerals are involved in many biochemical processes in the human body.
An optimal supply of these substances is vital for human health and performance.
I regard it as being very positive that we can enrich our daily intake of food with vitamins and minerals.
This directive on food supplements provides for the approximation of the laws of the Member States.
Some Member States currently classify food supplements as food, and others as medicines.
The directive clearly classifies them as food products, which creates a level playing field for manufacturers and also removes existing barriers to trade within the single market.
At the same time, we are establishing legal certainty for European consumers.
The Commission' s proposal is therefore basically to be welcomed.
However, discussions in Parliament have made it clear that certain parts of the proposal need to be modified.
I particularly wish to highlight the area of application.
The Commission's proposal for a directive adopts a rather narrow approach as regards the substances it covers.
This applies firstly to permitted minerals and their compounds.
Some important minerals are not covered by the Commission proposal, despite their being used in many EU countries.
These minerals should be accepted as a matter of principle.
Of course chemical compounds still need to be submitted to scientific tests.
This needs to be done before the directive enters into force, in order to avoid important food supplements having to be withdrawn from the market.
In addition to vitamins and minerals, there are also other substances covered by the term "food supplements".
But we should not overreach ourselves and try to regulate everything in one go as regards food supplements on the market.
There is a consensus that other substances besides vitamins and minerals need to be subjected to scientific tests before they are covered by the directive.
Nevertheless, defining these additional substances using the heading "physiological" brings with it new problems as regards classification as medicinal products or drugs, and would totally confuse the market situation, which is quite contrary to the aim of the directive.
Blurring the dividing line between medicines and food supplements would lead to a lack of clarity as regards health-related claims, which have not so far been regulated.
Surely none of this can be the objective of this directive on food supplements.
As regards dosage and thus consumers' health, the system of safe maximum amounts is to be welcomed.
Nevertheless, we also need to ensure that consumers do not run the risk of substantially exceeding the daily requirement of food supplements when they take a daily vitamin tablet.
With vitamins A, D, and B6, for example, there would be a health risk.
The Commission proposal clearly covers this.
I totally support this.
With regard to food supplement labelling, the proposal for a directive provides for clear consumer information.
Labelling should tell consumers how to use vitamin and mineral products correctly.
Products are required to meet the highest purity and quality standards.
Both individual substances and the final product have to be produced in accordance with good manufacturing practice.
A compulsory notification procedure is essential in order to guarantee minimum levels of official control.
Above all, notification is only meaningful if a uniform procedure applies to all Member States.
This directive will provide European consumers with a common legal framework which places great value on product safety and helpful labelling without limiting the range of products on the shelves.
In other words, it provides a legal framework guaranteeing the free movement of goods whilst simultaneously ensuring a high level of protection.
Finally, I would like to very warmly thank the shadow rapporteur for working with me in such a cooperative way.
Many thanks, Mrs Corbey.
