Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the new directive is a huge improvement over the old one, on that we are all agreed.
The public register was a fundamental and central cause for concern to us Greens.
Monitoring is included, as is the testing of long-term effects.
We expressly welcome all this.
However, we shall abstain - and with good cause - because the main points of the directive have not been clarified.
There is unholy confusion in the area of genetic engineering at European level and no steps have been taken to label derivatives and GMOs and guarantee their traceability.
We have not clarified the question of exports of GMOs to non Member States.
I think that we have a moral responsibility to apply the same standards to third countries here as we do to ourselves and, more importantly, we have not clarified liability as a central factor.
The EU Commission is to make proposals here, it is true, but we do not know what they are.
I rather feel that we are buying a pig in a poke.
The BSE crisis should be a lesson and a reminder to us.
It is just not on, expecting the taxpayer to stump up for the damage and passing the risks onto society, while the genetic engineering companies only get the profits.
Which is why I do not expect any more GMO consents to be granted until legislation has been passed on liability.
So far, all we have is a declaration of intent; we do not have corporate liability and it is just not on, insisting that anyone who wants to register a car must produce an insurance certificate, while someone producing dangerous organisms, some of the long-term consequences, risks and dangers of which are still unknown factors, need not.
There is therefore no reason for Member States such as Germany and France to lift their de facto moratoria.
I think we have a huge crisis of confidence in consumer protection and unless derivatives are labelled, in other words, unless there is transparency and liability and responsibility can be taken ...
(The president cut the speaker off)
