Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen of the late shift, anyone who wants to do good work in politics must find the willpower and the patience to persevere.
Mr Wieland possesses both qualities in good measure.
With him as rapporteur, it was therefore almost a pleasure for myself and my colleagues to work towards the outcome that is now before us.
We can be slightly proud of that.
We have managed for the first time to get something that is normally only talked about enshrined in European law.
I mean the necessity for lifelong learning.
In the field of medicine, we shall in future not only have rules and criteria for the recognition of diplomas, examination certificates and other attestations of competence.
We are now saying for the first time that passing the final professional examination is not enough, but that training must continue, in the interests of patients in particular, but also in the interests of doctors and nursing staff.
Given the very rapid pace of technological and scientific progress in medicine, lifelong learning in one' s chosen profession is particularly important.
But we must not be content that it now appears in this recognition directive.
Rather, our legislation should be a contribution to making this initial success and with it lifelong learning into one of the mainstays of working life for everyone in Europe.
I should like to mention another point that has always concerned me in connection with the recognition of professional qualifications.
I will dress it up in a question that has still not been answered by this directive: why are we so reluctant to recognise qualifications obtained outside the European Union?
This question troubles me when I see how markets are becoming globalised and how easily we allow capital to move around.
Our citizens are able to bring goods and money with them from every corner of the world, but very personal assets in the form of professional knowledge and skills are not freely transferable.
There is something wrong there.
We must put it right quickly.
I therefore ask the Commission to abandon two arguments when preparing future recognition directives.
First, that it affects only a small number of EU citizens.
Second, that the Treaty provides only a limited basis in law.
Things will go a lot better then, you will see.
