Mr President, Commissioner, the common organisation of the markets in the sugar sector shows that reasonable results can also be achieved with administrative resources.
I remember our debate here on the common organisation of the market in pig meat.
Mr Mayer, you know that at that time I said that at some point I would remind you of the vehement opposition to this from your ranks and the calls for a free market.
At the time I said that I would come back to this when we discussed the organisation of the market in sugar but of course you were also in two minds.
If I remember correctly, Mrs Schierhuber in fact voted for the arrangements then in force for pigs, but now we are debating sugar and I do not think that the organisation of the market in sugar should be completely abandoned; a number of aspects simply need to be amended.
Production must be adjusted strictly in line with consumption in the European Union.
This also implies that the sugar which we take in addition to this from other countries - for example, the ACPs - is not re-exported.
It is also quite reasonable for us to accept sugar from the least developed, poorest countries.
I am in favour of the quantities being laid down so that we do not have cyclical trade here, however.
This means that we need to repatriate our quotas.
There must be no more C sugar and no more exports of sugar at farmers' expense!
Because even if the money is forthcoming it is, after all, still dumping.
The practice of the European Union providing public money to help out with storage costs must also stop.
I am in favour of the sugar market being self-supporting.
Then it should be sustained in this way.
One final thought: in my view there is much more that could be done in the sugar sector from an ecological point of view.
Nitrogen use has fallen out of necessity because it caused sugar yields to fall, but, quite apart from this, more can be done in terms of sugar cultivation, and we can make it compulsory for the sugar factories to accept a particular proportion of eco-friendly sugar.
