Mr President, in German there is a saying that goes 'before the court and on the high sea one is in God's hands' .
Before the court this is certainly likely to be the case, but on the high sea we can give God a helping hand, and I believe that the Commission did this when it originally put forward the Erika I package.
We should perhaps recollect here that this package also included the port state control administrations, the classification societies, and proposals with regard to double-hulled vessels.
I too would like to thank Mr Ortuondo and Mr Watts very warmly for their work.
Mr Ortuondo pointed out earlier that one and a half years have now passed and I believe that at some point the people too will say: how long does it actually take you in Europe to pass regulations when a disaster like the Erika takes place?
It would be good if the Council would make a bit of an effort, as our colleague Mr Jarzembowski said earlier.
The Commission and Parliament are ready.
All we need for proper regulation is the Council.
I think it is obvious that - as Mr Watts said - the only issue left to discuss is that of the voyage data recorder.
We must be able to find a solution here.
I have no wish to conceal the fact that I personally am not one hundred percent convinced as regards the issue of ceilings for the liability of classification societies.
However, I think that if we as a Parliament want to stay together, then we must be united in a conciliation procedure too.
Sometimes, therefore, one must be able to set aside one's own reservations.
But an abstention from voting is also a possible way of demonstrating unity in Parliament.
Commissioner, I have a small request: could you perhaps, independently of the two dossiers, give an appraisal of what was decided by the IMO at the end of April on the issue of double-hulled vessels, and tell us what the opinion of the Commission is on it?
That would be good, because then we would have the whole package.
We clearly ought to enter into the conciliation procedure with the Council.
But maybe then it would not take so long.
Because - and Mr Jarzembowski is quite right - it is high time that we concluded this and time that we were able to tell the public that we have taken political action.
The public expects this, and so it must be done.
