Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner Patten, I should firstly like to express my satisfaction and also congratulate the High Representative of the CFSP and Commissioner Patten, because I think that in our attempts to resolve this conflict we are actually revealing the form which our CFSP will take.
Commissioner Patten spoke of the responsibility which we have in the region.
Commissioner, I should like to go a step further and say what mistakes have been made.
In this specific case there are two things which, in my view, have not happened and which are nevertheless contained in Resolution 1244: firstly to disarm the KLA in Kosovo and secondly to disband the KLA in Kosovo.
Neither have been done.
Quite the opposite!
The KLA has been given organisational structures which it did not have before.
The sin also bears a name, because it was the Special Representative of the UN Secretary-General - Bernard Kouchner is his name - who failed to do this.
We need to state this openly here.
That is why it is not enough to offer our good services for conflict resolution; we also have a duty to put right the mistakes which we have made.
I welcome the fact that NATO is on standby.
The disarmament of the KLA terrorists allows me to recognise them for what they are: terrorists and criminals and not rebels!
These KLA terrorists must be disarmed and NATO is offering to do this.
I wonder why we should now send an additional 3 000 soldiers there, under the conditions with which we are all familiar, when we could have disarmed these criminals and disbanded their organisations back in Kosovo.
Under no circumstances - and here I fully agree with Mrs Pack and the other speakers - must a long-term NATO presence engender the division of the country along ethnic lines and under no circumstances must NATO entrench that split by its presence and its willingness to help.
NATO must be deployed in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia with a very specific mission, namely disarmament.
