Mr President, Commissioner, rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution to this debate I should like to clarify a few points which, I believe, are in need of clarification.
First of all, Karl von Wogau' s report is not a school report card on the progress of the Member States' economic policies.
This report by Karl von Wogau is a report on the economic guidelines for the future and an analysis of the status quo.
I am therefore very grateful that Karl von Wogau chose the term 'home market' in connection with the introduction of euro notes and coins, because the single currency is the greatest integration project of the present-day European Union.
The introduction of euro notes and coins will be a clearly visible reminder of our European home, a reminder that will be given to all the people of the euro zone whenever they handle the single currency.
It is also positive that this concept of a home market will also remind the public so tangibly of the political integration project that underlies the introduction of the euro, since this could provide an extremely powerful impetus for the political pursuit of economic progress, employment and European integration.
A second point is that I fail to understand how, in this day and age, the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs can still try to present capital and growth as the enemies of employment, which came across to some extent in Mrs Weiler' s speech.
This is why it was necessary once again to put the concept of a socially committed market economy at the heart of this report.
I should like to extend the concept into that of a socially and environmentally committed market economy.
What do we mean by that?
We mean that we are opposed to the treatment of growth and employment as two completely separate issues.
That is why we have pledged ourselves to the Stability Pact and to growth and employment.
A socially committed market economy encourages social responsibility, ecological sustainability and an education policy rooted in the principle of lifelong learning.
Let me finish with an appeal to the Council.
The Broad Economic Policy Guidelines require us all to work together.
Since the report says that the EU market in financial services must become an integrated, efficient market, and since we are forever stressing the important role played by pensions and by accelerated procedures, I have to say to the Council that the Ecofin Council, at its last meeting, certainly paid further lip service to the principles that are involved here but, when it came to company pensions and the Lamfalussy report, betrayed those selfsame principles.
The Broad Economic Policy Guidelines can be implemented with the active support of the Council.
Now is the time for it to act.
