Mr President, when the House discusses research issues, almost everything that previous speakers have said can be unanimously endorsed.
The unanimity of our general aims, however, does not make them any easier to achieve in practice.
The foundations of future research policy are, in our view, concentration of effort, in other words prioritisation, as well as flexibility and coordination.
These must necessarily be accompanied by democratic decisions taken by a heterogeneous Parliament and an equally heterogeneous Council.
I must be honest with you, Commissioner: if this initiative succeeds, you will deserve our warmest congratulations.
We shall try to assist you in your efforts.
The European Research Area is certainly a first step in the right direction and will be a component of the Sixth Framework Programme.
However, as soon as it comes to putting the theory into practice, questions inevitably start to arise.
The devil is not only in the detail.
To put it another way, you want a concentrated effort, and indeed we all want to have priorities.
So what clearly defined criteria will you be using to set these priorities, Commissioner?
All I can say is 'Have fun!'
The criteria have never been defined in the proper degree of detail, and both of us, Mr Caudron, have been using the term 'European added value' for the past ten years.
Is that not so?
Neither of us has ever defined what it means, nor have we ever been able to.
Enough has already been said about flexibility, but then comes the third point, namely coordination.
A European Research Area necessarily involves coordination between the Union level and national research, and here I see party-political differences rearing their heads.
How much do we want to coordinate centrally, how much do we want to plan and specify centrally, and how much should be done from below in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity?
It will be an absorbing debate, and the political parties are already fuelling it, but we are ready and willing to engage in that debate.
Congratulations to the rapporteur - we shall continue our cooperation.
