Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I have three brief comments to make.
First, the initial stage should involve both public debate - I agree with the comments made on this by Mr Swoboda and Mr Brok - and it should involve the planned Laeken declaration.
I have a very straightforward question to put to you: are you - the Commission - ready and will we manage this year, in 2001, to present a common Commission and Parliament proposal for Laeken on the subsequent structure of the post-Nice process?
That is my first question, which concerns the method.
As regards my second point, I was delighted to hear you say that we must set up a committee to involve governments, the Commission, the European Parliament and the national parliaments.
We want a convention to move the post-Nice process forward, a convention which is the centre of gravity for public debate, i.e. which sends and receives proposals and, at the same time, presents a clear proposal for the Intergovernmental Conference and for the issues which will need to be negotiated in 2004.
My third point relates to the subjects.
Four subjects are planned, which is both fine and feasible; but we all know that it is not just these subjects which need to be clarified and that much more is and must be at stake for 2004.
I would advise each and everyone of us to get away from this strange 'post-Nice' concept.
Post-Nice is not what it is about.
Nice is not only the end of a method, Nice is also the end of an era , the era of the European unification process of the 1950s, the 1960s, the 1970s and the 1980s.
Now what we have to do is to prepare the ground for a new European Union, a European Union of the twenty-first century.
It is not about the post-Nice process, it is about standing on the verge of a renewed European unification process and we must make this clear.
If we want to convince public opinion, public debate, the people and the citizens of the merits of our objective of European unification, then starting a post-Nice process is not enough; on the contrary, we must ensure that the people understand that we are talking about a new European Union in a new Europe, a Europe which has changed since 1990.
