Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, safety on Europe's roads is a vital matter and the figures speak for themselves: 42 000 deaths a year and 1.7 million people injured.
Something has to be done about this.
We must seek to make our roads safer.
There is very great suffering among those who lose a family member as a result of a car accident.
Our society is becoming increasingly mobile, and I am in favour of it.
But that is precisely why it is our duty to tackle the risks.
Here, we as politicians must assume our responsibility towards society at European, as also at national and regional level, and call for better and more adequate road traffic measures.
The analysis of road accidents is decisive.
The way to compile accident statistics therefore includes recording, processing and interpreting accident data.
A systematic examination of what happens on the roads can provide important data to help ensure greater safety and prevent accidents.
The construction method of transport modes, as also road design and people themselves, are weak points.
We must identify and seek where possible to remedy them.
I see this as a most important aspect.
And here I think road user education is essential.
We must raise people's awareness of the dangers and risks involved in road use, as the precondition for their acceptance of measures.
Even children, a specially high-risk group of road users, must be taught through play how to behave on the roads.
Young people must be informed of the risks they and other road users face once they have obtained their driving licence.
One point is especially close to my heart: measures against drink driving but also against the use of medicines and drugs when driving.
Many measures have already been taken to combat drink driving, including many awareness-raising measures.
Yet people often do not realise that taking drugs and medicines can cloud their minds and affect their driving just as much.
The EU road safety programme aims to define the main priorities clearly.
Above all, we need to take a systematic approach to these problems.
It is vital to call for cooperation between the Commission and the Member States.
