Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make five points from the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Firstly, where the reunification of Europe is concerned, all of us are aware of its historical dimension and our own political and moral responsibility.
It must succeed and it will succeed because it is right and proper.
Secondly, the economic data show positive developments.
Economic growth in Central and Eastern Europe continues to be above the EU average.
The macroeconomic situation has improved.
EU exports to the accession countries are on the up and the accession countries are already benefiting now from the accession negotiations because under this process they are also being given orientation aid for necessary reforms, which would have had to be implemented anyway after 50 years of Communist dictatorship, even if they did not have the prospect of joining the EU.
Thirdly, and the Commissioner touched on this, economic and monetary union - the euro - will not be achieved immediately upon accession.
It is important that we point out that once the Copenhagen criteria have been fulfilled, the Maastricht criteria will need to be met - without any opting-out clauses and that this will probably require at least another three, four, five or more years.
Fourthly, money and balance sheets are, after all, not the be-all and end-all.
The economic indicators are positive, but they are only a means to an end and not an end in themselves.
We said this today in the debate on the Middle East: a means to an end which is to create peace, provide security, guarantee social stability, build up a democratic polity and safeguard growth and employment.
Fifthly, there is much to be done: to meet the stability criteria, to regulate state aid, to remove regional disparities, to reform pensions, social security and health services, to make rapid progress on privatisation, and to guarantee the independence of the judiciary and the public authorities.
We have reached an important stage.
We look towards the goal with optimism.
