Mr President, just under nine months to go and we shall witness the birth of what is expected to be a sturdy euro, a euro that will see the light of the world of real payment transactions.
Our citizens will finally hold it in their hands.
It has all the right talents: the economic clout of 12 of the 15 Member States of the EU, low rates of inflation, falling national debts and historically low interest rates.
It will be well protected by the European Central Bank in Frankfurt am Main - which knows all there is to know about stability, and really has done what Othmar Karas said, i.e. operated a "steady-hand" policy, which is now paying off.
Anyone who has managed to withstand the pessimism, the years of being underrated like the euro has, is worth investing in.
The situation in the euro zone, with over 2.5 million new jobs in three years is good, although caution is needed in the face of the slowdown in the United States.
Growth and investment forecasts are being revised downwards everywhere.
There is the threat of weakening exports and increasing problems in funding social security systems.
The euphoria over the new economy has fallen into the abyss along with the fall in share prices.
Today it would appear that the old economy is not so old after all.
We must take strategic precautions: economic policy, monetary policy and social policy must be coordinated.
We must improve the framework conditions for innovative start ups.
We must make it easier to invest in information and communications technologies.
Now more than ever, the Member States need to get on and reform their education and training plans, which should be geared to the challenges of these new technologies and the increasing need for mobility.
Higher qualifications improve employability, especially in the knowledge society which we keep on talking about.
We also need to secure permanent and effective social protection, and this can only be done if those in political power put funding right at the top of their agenda.
The social partners' agenda needs to include maintaining jobs for older people, creating more jobs and giving employees a share in company profits.
The social market economy, which Karl von Wogau frequently refers to, is reflected in his excellent report.
We in the PPE-DE Group agreed with him unanimously.
It includes liberalisation and solidarity, competition and equal opportunities and environmentally-friendly growth.
The social market economy is more than just an economic model.
This social model will be the basis for the new European home market which Karl von Wogau has been forecasting, and that does have a future.
