Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to express my warm thanks to all our colleagues on the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism who have made it possible for us to discuss the Commission communication on the safe transport of radioactive material so objectively.
This is not an appropriate theme with which to score political points.
Let me make it quite clear, the most dangerous aspect of the transport of radioactive material today are the demonstrators on the periphery who cut the railway lines in half, dig out railway embankments, and do other similar things.
At the moment, some of them are staging a 'lie-in' on the railway tracks in Germany.
That is far more dangerous than the transports themselves.
The Commission communication also makes it clear that in Europe, the vast majority of these movements consist of low-grade radioactive material which is being transported and used to benefit people, that is, as medical products.
No one can possibly object to that.
The Group of the European People's Party, and let me be quite clear on this, we will vote against all proposed amendments presented by fellow MEPs in Parliament, because we believe that in the Committee, we have worked out an excellent compromise which is worth defending at Parliamentary level as well.
Let me stress again, it is not the task of the European Union - as the rapporteur, my friend Konstantinos Hatzidakis, has also pointed out - to prescribe to individual Member States the type of primary energy sources they should use.
If the majority of Member States continue to be committed to nuclear energy today, however, safe and appropriate procedures must be in place.
I hope that the Member States will also genuinely fulfil their obligation to provide information, which is laid down in the communication.
This will be the next test for Germany, when, at the end of March, reprocessed material is due to be transported from La Hague to its final storage site in Germany.
