Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Mrs Klamt and Mrs Karamanou for producing such good reports.
The sexual exploitation of children, child pornography and trafficking in human beings are appalling crimes which are assuming alarming proportions.
Their proliferation is facilitated through globalisation and modern telecommunications technology.
These problems can no longer be resolved through national measures.
The European Union and its Member States must adopt a joint approach in cooperation with the third countries concerned.
As regards the trafficking in human beings, a clear distinction must be made between two areas: sexual abuse, and the exploitation of labour.
At the beginning of the twenty-first century, there are more slaves in the world than were trafficked from Africa in the previous centuries.
The United Nations estimates that worldwide, around 200 million people are exploited as slaves.
Trafficking in human beings is conducted via well-organised criminal and in some cases international networks.
The Framework Decision is an important step towards better cooperation between Member States.
The harmonisation of Member States' legal provisions will establish a basis for better cooperation between judicial authorities in order to enable Europe to combat this trade in human beings.
The same applies to the Framework Decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography.
All the preventive options must be expanded further.
In order to take effective action against these criminal networks, we need targeted training for the police and law enforcement officers.
These problems must be considered in the accession negotiations with the Central and East European countries.
With regard to the trafficking in human beings, for example, some accession countries have now become countries of origin, transit countries, and even target countries.
On the European Union's borders, prostitution, sex tourism and the sexual exploitation of children have become a sad reality.
Swift measures are therefore required in these countries to combat crime in these areas and strengthen cooperation with the EU.
