Mr President, the present Financial Regulation is out of date.
It no longer meets the requirements of modern financial management.
The Commission has put forward a proposal for a new Financial Regulation based on the principles of decentralised responsibility and transparency.
The two rapporteurs, Mr Dell' Alba and Mr van Hulten, have worked through the proposal in the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control and tabled amendments.
They deserve praise and recognition for this.
However, my group finds a number of points still open.
Firstly, the Commission' s most recent report on combating fraud in the year 2000 showed a massive increase in fraud and irregularities compared to the previous year.
Around EUR 2 billion were lost.
Experience shows that at best 15% to 20% of the losses can be recovered.
In such circumstances, is there any sense in abolishing preventive ex ante checks by independent financial control?
We do not want a return to schematic centralised preliminary controls that took away responsibility and created a false sense of security.
Rather, on the basis of efficient risk analyses and random checks, independent financial controllers should in future help to ensure decentrally that taxpayers' money is not spent illegally from the outset.
Secondly: with more responsibility at all levels, it will in future be possible to hold financial actors liable for negligence or deliberate breaches of the financial regulations.
Our motion here is designed to create a fair procedure by means of an independent body for all institutions.
On the matter of independence: we are astonished to note that the Commission in its proposal for the new Financial Regulation has quietly deleted the independent right of action for internal auditors that is enshrined in the present Financial Regulation.
We should like to restore this again through a motion.
The final point: the Advisory Committee on Procurements and Contracts.
This is the advisory body that must be consulted before contracts are awarded.
At the last session in Strasbourg, this House resolved to reform this procedure.
I think we will lose credibility if we now call for the body to be abolished 14 days later.
