Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Jackson's question illustrates the fact that the best laws in the world are no use whatsoever unless they are applied correctly and, more importantly, properly controlled.
For example, the Member States have not transposed the habitats directive into national legislation.
The same applies to a great deal of other legislation.
And this is legislation which we need for the future.
The Commission is responsible for transposition and for checking what sort of on-site controls have been carried out.
In doing so it, in turn, must rely on information supplied to it by the Member States.
I get the impression that monitoring is no easy task and if the Commission is to perform this task it needs information and data and reports to be sent in.
The complaint was often voiced in the past that the Commission did not have enough staff and resources to evaluate the data sent in for control purposes.
I should therefore like to ask the Commission if it now has sufficient resources.
Mind you, Parliament cannot talk, because we are constantly calling for reports.
I know that the Commission is very busy receiving and processing reports and that this sometimes ties up Commission capacities and resources unnecessarily.
In other words, we all have to think where we can make improvements.
I think the Commission should react more quickly, both towards the Member States and in instituting the necessary proceedings before the ECJ and setting fines.
At the same time, I call on the Member States to honour their obligations to transpose and control legislation and report to the Commission properly.
I am the person responsible in our group for the water framework directive and the rapporteur for the groundwater action programme, which is still pending, and the nitrates directive is therefore a matter of particular concern to me.
On Tuesday, i.e. tomorrow, we shall be voting on the Goodwill report, to which I have proposed a number of amendments.
I should like to ask the House to accept these proposed amendments, because what we are trying to do here is to give the Member States more responsibility.
I should therefore be grateful for your support.
Finally, I should like to mention one more point, namely the candidate countries.
We require candidate countries to adopt European legislation.
But when the Member States themselves fail to abide by it and the European Commission is unable to take decisive action, then everything starts to go pear-shaped.
For this reason alone and, most importantly, in order to protect human health and the environment, all those responsible need to radically rethink the matter post-haste and these reports make that clear.
