Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the cohesion policy is an integral component of the European Union.
The European Union will not make progress in growing together if solidarity does not always play some part.
We all know that those who are stronger and richer must help those who are poorer or not yet as strong or in the process of catching up.
We are talking today about what was to be seen over the last few years and, of course, also about the conclusions we must draw from that for the years to come.
Today, I want to take a look at the current state of our cohesion policy, in other words: how are we spending the money we have allocated to this truly vital EU policy?
Right up to Agenda 2000, we used to have the stormiest debates about how much money was to be spent.
If, though, we now look at how implementation is actually proceeding, we cannot but have grave doubts as to whether this is being taken seriously enough.
The new aid period began last year, so, of course, things cannot move as fast at the outset as they can halfway down the track, but it must be pointed out all the same that implementation is proceeding at a wretched rate in the various fields.
There is simply no other way of putting it.
This has been a frequent topic in the Committee on Budgets, and even the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism has taken it up and will continue to discuss it.
Looking at current discussions in the context of the Budget consultations - and here I must address my remarks to the Council - we see that the Council has allocated only 1% for next year's new liabilities, and that is then supposed to be converted into payments.
One per cent of all we are prepared to commit, that is supposed to be paid out!
We are producing a backlog, of the sort that we often used to have.
We are piling up funds rather than fast-tracking aid, and fast aid is good aid, because we want many countries and regions no longer to need aid when enlargement actually comes about.
If we really want to help them out of their plight, if we really want to make room for the new countries who want to join us, we must give aid fast and in concentrated form, in other words: there must be appropriate follow-up here.
I call upon the Commission - which has already submitted proposals on this - but also upon the Council, to follow up words with actions, for cohesion is only any good as and when it actually reaches people, and that needs to be as soon as possible!
