Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Mr Corbett's statement and also to your own, Madam President.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats, I would like to say that the President of this Parliament has behaved quite properly in this matter, and to express our full support for you on this, Madam President.
(Applause from the right)
It is amazing that the Socialist Group has raised this subject in debate during every part-session, either here in Brussels or else in Strasbourg.
Mr Corbett, you say you are concerned about the reputation of the European Parliament.
What you are really worried about is the election campaign in Italy, and you want to influence that campaign by enabling your political friends to benefit from a debate here in Brussels.
(Applause from the right)
However, unlike the President, I am free to express my own opinion, because things are being insinuated here, and to comment on the fact that Mrs Garaud, for whom I have great respect, has so far not been able to travel to Madrid.
The President made a discreet reference to the reason.
Why is it that Mrs Garaud has been unable to undertake the mission?
It is because her husband has died.
We offer her our sincere sympathy.
I am saying this so that there can be no more insinuations here.
(Applause from the right)
That brings me to the question of how this was dealt with in the Conference of Presidents.
I am one of those people who not only always wants debates to be held here, but also believes that we should make decisions.
However, we need to recognise that the Conference of Presidents reached a unanimous decision.
It was unanimously agreed that the Committee on Constitutional Affairs chaired by our esteemed colleague Mr Napolitano, who is not a member of my group, should now draft a report on how we deal with the procedures for waiving immunity.
That was a unanimous decision.
That is why I was very surprised, after the Conference of Presidents, to hear about a letter from the chairman of the Socialist Group to the President of Parliament, in which the very decision we had agreed upon was once again called into question.
If this were about another person, if this did not involve a country in the middle of an election campaign, then I am sure that the Socialist Group would not keep raising this issue in this House.
That is why we very firmly reject these attempts to influence the election campaign in Italy and the democratic process of forming a new government in that country.
(Applause from the right)
