Mr President, I am very pleased that the President-in-Office of the Council is once again in this Chamber.
But, with all due respect to you, Mr President-in-Office, in view of the fact that Sweden constantly promotes equal opportunities, I would have liked Secretary of State Ekström to be here.
Yesterday she was at the joint meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
On the Bullmann report: The Lisbon Council resolved to turn the EU into the world' s most competitive area by the year 2010.
Was that just an idle boast?
Yet, with four million new jobs in four years, mostly highly qualified and ICT jobs, the signs are good.
A new dynamic with more flexible labour markets has emerged, but not everybody is keeping pace.
There are big difference between the regions, with high levels of employment and room for manoeuvre for enterprises in some regions but, in others, increasing unemployment causing people to leave their homes on economic grounds.
But we want economic and social cohesion in the Community and active labour market policies, which are reflected in the four pillars of the Luxembourg process.
The priority is clear: the promotion of innovative SMEs.
We have what it takes to shape the future and create jobs, but we need to dismantle bureaucratic, legal and tax obstacles and facilitate access to risk capital.
By implementing the directives in the NAPS, the employment rate within the EU can be raised to 70%.
Quantum leaps need to be made in education and training.
Priority should be given to the upward revaluation of vocational training, the implementation of a concept of life-long learning, better framework conditions for cross-border activities, the promotion of mobility through joint training programmes for young people and pan-European recognition of qualifications.
The Hughes procedure brought together the findings of the Bullmann report in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Cocilovo report in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Although the details may be assessed somewhat differently, this final report merits our support.
