Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission.
I intend to focus on foreign and security policy aspects which the European Parliament may care to recommend to the Gothenburg Council.
First, I should like to thank the Swedish presidency for its initiatives in the area of conflict prevention and civil crisis management.
They are a credit to the tradition of your country and they are right and proper for the European Union.
I should like to encourage you, Madam President-in-Office, to bring the project which you have started to a successful conclusion in Gothenburg in the form of a strong, specific programme which can be implemented at once.
One of the most difficult tasks, not just for the Council presidency, but for the European Council as a whole in Gothenburg, will be to convey to the American president just how worried and concerned we are about the new policy which he has adopted for the United States of America.
We are not just extremely worried about the rocket defence system, the rejection of the Kyoto Protocol and the USA's attitude towards the International Criminal Tribunal; the USA's aversion to traditional cooperation with the European Union is a particularly worrying sign for anyone who sees this cooperation as instrumental when it comes to resolving huge international problems.
Madam President-in-Office, my closing point concerns a very sad and dramatic situation emanating from the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
We were due to receive Mr Trajkovski, the president of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, here within the hour.
He will not be coming - presumably because of the serious situation in his country.
And we must take our share of the blame, Madam President-in-Office, for the situation in his country.
We must take our share of the blame for the terrorist action of the KLA, which we have failed to disband, despite Security Council Resolution 1244, and which is now attacking this country and undermining its very existence.
The European Union must do everything it can, Madam President-in-Office, to put an end to this terrorism and help this country.
