Mr President, I should like to start by thanking Mr Harbour for his excellent report.
I am not just flattering him, I really mean it.
My congratulations on his report which contains both a comprehensive evaluation of the Commission initiatives and many of his own suggestions.
I should also like to thank him for his open-minded attitude to our positions, suggestions and proposed amendments.
Similar thanks go to the Commission, which really has proven over recent years that it is able to start its own European initiatives in an extremely important sector and implement them internationally.
We have to deal here with opponents - perhaps I should say partners at international level rather than opponents - who are very very strong in this sector, especially the United States.
It is becoming more and more important for us to come up with our own ideas on what future prospects we want to give the Internet sector as a whole.
So heartfelt thanks to the Commission - and the Council - on their innovation-friendly approach to this sector.
I should like to pick up on a few points addressed by Malcolm Harbour.
This initiative is concerned primarily with what should happen in the area of future research on the Internet.
I think it is important here to progress beyond the Commission' s previous initiatives and anticipate the future.
Malcolm Harbour mentioned this.
What does that mean, anticipating the future in the Internet sector?
It is tough terrain because forecasts are hard to make in both this and many other sectors.
Here, however, we are dealing with a sector which is moving very very fast, which is regulated but where it is increasingly important that we look ahead and decide what standards will be needed in the future.
The other question which keeps cropping up is exactly how this sector is perceived and understood by the people, by consumers as a whole.
It is becoming more and more important here to create real confidence, so that we do not just have the technology, which is fantastic, we do not just have clever and intelligent regulation, we do not just have standards which anticipate the future, we also have people and consumers who are ready and willing to invest in this sector, not just by making telephone calls, but by using it in future to conduct their transactions.
We shall need to invest much much more in this sector than we have done in the past.
If we are to create real confidence, I should like to call on the Commission to do more here.
To close, my request, my plea to the Commission is this: please bundle all the initiatives which you have started in the Internet sector into a single, cross-sectoral initiative with a real, overall, conclusive concept.
