Mr President, I would like to thank all three institutions.
Although Mrs Niebler is not an institution, she has behaved almost like one!
I would like to thank her sincerely for her report.
But I would also like to thank the Commission and the Council.
I would like to thank the Council, because it has changed its position in a way that would have been unthinkable until recently, as I am sure the Commission will agree.
However, thanks are also due to the Commission because it has shown such persistence in pursuing this subject over the years, although we did not expect that it would act so quickly.
Nevertheless, I have to tell the Commission that to some extent it has been unnecessarily tough, not least regarding the amendments put forward by Parliament, and that it has not perhaps shown the institutional flexibility that it might have or that might have been expected from the Commission.
Mrs Niebler has quite rightly pointed out that there is a considerable difference between technical measures and strategic decisions on policy, and that when it comes to strategic decisions the European Parliament really ought to play a greater role than provided for in the report, so that transparency is guaranteed and democratic structures are actually established.
This is even more important if you bear in mind that the Council is by no means in agreement with the Commission that the Senior Official Group should be established.
That only leaves us with the Senior Official Committee, which means that the institutional framework for taking democratic decisions will be distinctly limited.
I personally would therefore support Mrs Niebler's new proposal in which she suggests establishing a "call-back procedure" in the wake of Lamfalussy.
My Group has, in any case, tabled certain amendments.
I hope that the House will be able to accept these amendments.
They will also be supplemented by an oral amendment which I hope the House will support.
We can take on board the Council's proposal, in which it proposes that in cases going beyond technical measures the Commission should propose a legal instrument to Parliament and the Council.
I hope that we will have your support for this and I hope that the Commission will be able to live with this amendment.
