Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you have announced an ambitious programme, Mr President-in-Office, and the ambition of your proposals is commensurate with the challenges which lie ahead.
That is why, at the end of this debate, I should like to express the wish that you will be equal to your own ambition and that you will enjoy success.
On behalf of the CDU/CSU Group in this Parliament, may you be an effective President-in-Office of the Council.
You will need our support and you will also have it.
You rightly said at the beginning that you want to reconcile the public with Europe.
This has been expressed in various different ways.
The reasons for the loss of confidence in Europe, which before was hidden beneath the surface but which, since the referendum in Ireland, is now there for all to see, are many and diverse; they have been mentioned.
In passing, however, it should be stated that a further factor in this was the way in which the powerful members of the Council for example dealt with a country like Austria.
Perhaps your foreign minister will have the opportunity to repair some of the damage which has been done to Austria' s faith in Europe.
The method adopted hitherto in intergovernmental conferences has had its day because decisions of consequence - such as those made when treaties are amended - must no longer be made in Council back rooms in the dead of night; instead beforehand we need a phase of public consultation.
That is why we are calling for an assembly, similar to a convention, to be set up which will organise a public dialogue in Europe before decisions are made in the Council.
To achieve this we need, above all, your support.
Mr President-in-Office, it would be a first and very specific step forward - and would also send out a signal to the Irish - if the intergovernmental conference were to be opened up and made more transparent.
In taking a step of this kind, we would also be justified in going before the Irish for a second time and tabling the treaty for a vote.
This is what you will be judged on, and we wish you every success for your work in the interests of Europe.
