Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Brok, I agree with Mr Brok's report and I fully subscribe to the content behind the form.
We need and we want to give money and we want to give it quickly.
We are more than prepared to do so but certain framework conditions have to be complied with.
One thing is for sure and that is that we demand that the majority in Kosovo give the present minority, i.e. the Serbs, Romas, Sinti, Bosnians etc. a chance to develop and live a proper life in this country.
This will be a particularly decisive question when elections are held in autumn.
How representative will these elections be?
I am delighted that elections are being held, but how representative will they be if not everyone in the country can take part or those who do later flee?
Secondly: another decisive point - as Mr Brok mentioned - is that we expect the Albanian majority in Kosovo to distance itself from all the small groups - not the Albanians per se in Macedonia, but the small groups, the KLA or quasi-KLA organisations up to no good in Macedonia.
This is absolutely essential because Macedonia has a democracy, unlike in former Yugoslavia, where it is understandable up to a point when people take up arms in order to defend themselves against terrorism and repression.
But Macedonia has a democracy, democratic potential, and the European Union in particular will help the Albanian minority, which is a large minority in Macedonia, to develop.
But we expect the Albanian majority in Kosovo, with all due respect for the justified claims of their brothers and sisters in Macedonia, to distance themselves from terrorism.
Thirdly: I think that, as far as economic questions are concerned, it is important for Kosovo to develop its own economic resources over the course of time.
I refer in particular to the question of the mines in Trebca.
I know that mines are not necessarily a modern economy's first choice nowadays, but I think that every avenue needs to be explored - even if the conditions of ownership have not been completely clarified - so that they can develop their own resources.
A problem arises in this context and I am delighted that Commissioner Solbes Mira is here and I can specifically ask him.
The problem which arises concerns the changeover to the euro.
What will happen to the de facto currency in Kosovo and in other areas of the Balkans, but especially in Kosovo?
I refer to the Deutschmark.
I read in a report recently that this will cause huge problems and I should like to ask you Commissioner if the Commission has thought about this or made any announcements on this?
Will the Commission address this and, if so, when, so that some form of solution can be found to this question, which is fundamental to the development of Kosovo?
