Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I particularly welcome the tabling of a Green Paper on PVC, but I have to say straight away that this Green Paper disappointed me, because it opens the door to panic, not to panic about jobs, but panic about PVC as a material.
This has been quite perceptible here today.
I should like to say to Mr Sacconi that he has tried to put a few things straight and he has succeeded in doing so in parts, but not everywhere.
I think that we have a great deal more to do here.
We must, I believe, take note of one thing: if we are discussing how to phase out or replace PVC then we are on the wrong track.
PVC is a material which we encounter every day, which we need and can use in many areas of our lives.
In my opinion this is also how it will stay in the near future.
The fact that this requires us to solve problems is something that is also true in any other sector and with any other material.
The weak points of the Green Paper are that it mentions products, such as cadmium and lead, which industry actually uses only very rarely in the PVC production process even now.
I have seen for myself how the measures under the voluntary commitments are being introduced in companies.
I, myself, am no friend of self-regulation; I have always campaigned hard against it.
After all, we need laws to achieve something.
In this case, however, it was not the lobbying trap to which someone at the front referred a few minutes ago: I satisfied myself of its effectiveness.
We should appropriate industry's findings and not randomly back or call for substitutes which we ourselves have not yet investigated, and about which we ourselves do not know the full facts.
These are points, therefore, which certainly need to be taken into consideration, and the Green Paper needs to be altered to reflect them.
Where legislation is concerned we always say that we need to make progress quickly and that we need to know what's what.
The entire body of legislation on the use of PVC - the incineration directive, the landfill directive - provides legislative foundations on which we can build when we want to use and dispose of this particular material.
