Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Redondo, for her work, which is unexpectedly topical following the most recent outbreak of foot-and-mouth.
The parallels between swine fever and foot-and-mouth are obvious; in the case both of foot-and-mouth and swine fever, the Community decided in the past to pursue a policy of non-vaccination.
However, the scale of the foot-and-mouth crisis has demonstrated that an unreserved policy of non-vaccination belongs on the test bench.
I do not mean that we should resort to blanket vaccination in future.
Killing infected stock, stamping out, must continue to be the mainstay of the strategy to combat these diseases.
However, greater importance should be attached to vaccination.
We should not, in my view, stand still on the question of vaccination; instead we should develop a strategy of comprehensive zoonosis prevention mainly for use during disease-free periods.
This could include stricter controls on third country imports, controls at airports and quarantining new additions to livestock.
Another important point is the principle of regionalisation.
The Commission must act very quickly here and negotiate with EU trading partners in order to implement this principle.
We cannot expect all the Member States of the EU to put up with import restrictions in third countries every time a disease breaks out in one or a few Member States.
The European Union already applies this principle to third country imports.
Now third countries must return the favour.
Marker vaccines are very important here, as the rapporteur has clearly highlighted.
More must be invested in these vaccines and in developing discriminatory diagnostic techniques, so that it will soon be possible to distinguish between vaccinated and infected animals and then make economic use of vaccinated animals.
I should also like to comment on one more very specific issue, namely swill feeding, that is, using leftovers from canteens etc.
These leftovers have been used as animal fodder for years and we must still be able to use them in future.
As with meat and bonemeal, I support a conditional ban here, as formulated in Amendment No 37 by the Group of the Greens, that is, it should only be possible to use leftovers if a suitable sterilisation process is used.
I think that if proper controls are carried out then, as we have seen in the past in numerous Member States, we will still be able to use this valuable source of protein.
We should support the proposed amendment by the Greens which still allows leftovers to be used but subject to stricter conditions.
