Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question about the state of the shipbuilding industry in the Community is prompted by deep concern about the future of this sector.
On the one hand, international competition remains extremely distorted.
The market, which is characterised by artificially low prices, in particular from Korea, can still only be described as extremely anti-competitive.
On the other hand, the demands made by the European Parliament in its resolution of 14 December of last year have so far, either, not been met at all, or, only to an insufficient extent.
It remains unclear how the European shipbuilding industry can be supported so as further to improve its international competitiveness.
It remains unclear how rigorously the Commission has responded to Parliament's call for a dispute settlement procedure to be initiated with the Republic of Korea before the World Trade Organisation.
The decisions made so far in this respect by the Commission, and also by the Council, have been inconsistent and illogical in important areas.
On the one hand, they have established that Korea has clearly violated the agreements made; on the other, they have so far neglected to take immediate and appropriate action against this.
This can only be to the detriment of European shipyards.
Only in May 2001, when the situation is examined more closely, will it be recognised that the Union's shipyards have been at the mercy of persistently unfair competition for almost half a year.
This means additional burdens and dangers in an already complicated situation.
It may be disastrous for individual companies.
In this acute situation, competition is being distorted and livelihoods are being threatened, and the European Union risks suffering serious strategic damage if action is not taken more quickly and more systematically against obvious unfair practices.
The course of events so far really does seem rather odd.
Allow me to draw a comparison between this and a sporting competition.
How do you think a competitor feels who has just recovered from a serious illness and is sent into the boxing ring?
There he comes up against a tough opponent who, despite having been proven guilty of taking drugs several times, still has not been banned.
On the contrary, the prizes are increasing.
This is an opponent who already habitually hits below the belt, while the referee looks on indifferently and the judges argue about what the drug-taker's illegal punches are worth - full or half points!
