Mr President, Commissioner, first of all I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mrs de Palacio, and your team for the very constructive and energetic way you have cooperated with us.
A good example of this occurred during the last few days.
The final EU classification of ports and harbours as part of the trans-European networks attracted a great deal of attention in the case of the medium-sized ports, because European status gives these ports stimuli for growth and investment incentives which are vital for the regions involved.
The solution reached up to now through conciliation is acceptable, but I would ask you, when ports are being classified, to apply a measure of goodwill in some cases at least, as the dividing lines are essentially set in an arbitrary way.
The medium-sized ports will be grateful to you - and to us - if this is done.
In particular, everyone is now aware that the Commission and Parliament are not pausing for breath.
One after the other, we are discussing proposals to improve maritime safety.
Nor should we allow ourselves to let the pace slacken, given the situation at sea.
The accident off the Galapagos Islands is just the latest in a string of disasters with devastating effects on nature and on human populations.
The public is aware of these issues and the debates about safety flare up at regular intervals.
We must make it clear to the coast dwellers affected that the European Union may have been tardy in addressing these problems, but that the right approach has been adopted, after years of pressure on our part.
Europe is doing something about maritime safety and the prevention of pollution.
In this way we need to give a clear signal to the IMO and the world in general, both now and in future.
The Commission has brought forward its proposals in almost record time.
Last November we approved the Erika I package.
The Council reached agreement at the end of December so that the directive can come into force as from 2002.
The Erika II package is now just around the corner, and I am delighted that the second package too will result in genuine progress in safety at sea.
I would also like to take this opportunity to pay tribute to the enormous amount of work done on the ground, that is to say by the classification societies' inspectors and by the port States.
I saw this with my own eyes during a visit last week to the port of Antwerp together with Mr Piecyk.
Huge demands are made of the inspectors and we need to give them our support.
The report before us by Mr Bakopoulos makes a valuable contribution to achieving further progress on safety.
The fact that it was approved unanimously in committee is a testament to his convincing work.
I trust that Parliament will be equally convinced when it comes to vote.
I am not just speaking for myself, but for a large majority, when I specifically welcome the setting up of the Committee on Safe Seas that has already been mentioned.
I also particularly welcome the second part of the Commission document, because what is the point of having the committee if the relevant directives and regulations are not brought into line with the new structure?
We do not want a dispute over powers, we need administrative clarity; we do not need a dozen working parties or committees, what we need is a clear and dynamic structure, and I believe that will set Europe on the right path and make us a model for the rest of the world.
