Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not only today is the food inspectorate the focus of public attention; it will have to endure public scrutiny again in the near future when it starts to pursue the ambitious aim that has been set for it.
We cannot expect it, however, to eradicate criminal practices, slackness and black sheep; that goes beyond its remit.
I have sometimes had the impression in the course of the present discussion that the wheel is being reinvented in the realm of food safety.
Not so; let me counter that view by putting it to you that no previous generation in our Member States has ever been able to choose from such a rich variety of good and safe foods.
Inspections cannot turn unsafe food into safe food.
Safe food must be produced.
That is why I am in favour of unequivocal and stringent measures.
From producer to consumer, from byre to buyer, from pitchfork to table fork, if you like - every link in the food-production chain, be it the initial input by the farmers, the processing of farm produce by the food industry or retail food sales and the preparation and serving of food in restaurants and canteens, etc., should be subject to far stricter control.
The traceability of foodstuffs must be guaranteed throughout the entire production chain.
This morning we are discussing the subject of the food inspectorate, and perhaps we shall be doing so again in the future.
We are wondering whether it should be an agency or an authority, where its headquarters should be, where the line should be drawn between its sphere of responsibility and that of the national authorities or how the two can interact.
Last but not least, we are discussing the powers of this new authority.
My constituents will be hoping that this is not just another paper tiger.
Let us hope that the rich cultural diversity which is reflected in our European menus will manage to survive intact in conformity with the safety and hygiene rules.
I truly wish success to this new institution; may it ensure that we are not caught empty-handed again in the not too distant future when the next scandal comes along.
