Mr President, Commissioners, first of all, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur Mr Cornillet very warmly, for his report is a sign of progress, above all in terms of structure, for it gives us the opportunity to review annually the extent to which we are genuinely fulfilling the provisions of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in the European Union.
However, as is the case every year, progress has been slowed down by various votes and proposed amendments, with efforts being made yet again to pack the report with political ideologies which actually do not belong there.
They are political ideologies which perhaps cannot be achieved at home and which also violate the principle of subsidiarity.
They have no place here.
I am against every form of discrimination, and I would like to make this clear with a number of examples.
I am against every form of discrimination against homosexuality, but I oppose the politically-motivated attempts, apparent yet again in this report, to present homosexual marriage as the absolute norm and demand the same rights for it as marriage between partners of different sexes, which is actually still the norm today.
The fact that marriage between persons of different sexes - the core unit of society - is still the norm is a good thing, comrades, as people would say nowadays in Berlin.
I also oppose the attempts to grant all non-EU citizens the same rights to vote and stand for election as EU citizens.
This would be unique in the world, and would constitute discrimination against EU citizens.
I oppose the attempts to recast family reunion as an instrument of immigration by extending the term 'family' to a large and ill-defined group.
This is unacceptable, for it removes Member States' right to decide which workers they wish to, and are able, to admit, and how many.
Let us admit the immediate family by all means, but not the entire extended family.
We will not support the examples which I have cited or other political demands.
However, we will certainly vote for the report presented by the rapporteur Mr Cornillet.
