Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it really is deeply disturbing that we find ourselves obliged to address the situation in Turkey - or rather the situation in that country's prisons - again and so soon.
I would be pleased if we were able to give Turkey credit today for having solved a difficult situation in a peaceful way.
But unfortunately we cannot.
We in the European Parliament must therefore demand that Turkey itself should investigate - and where necessary that the Commission should also do its share in investigating - how this disastrous situation has arisen in Turkey at all.
I have in mind not only its prisons and the hunger strike there, but also how the need arose for military and police intervention at the cost of so many lives.
Secondly, we must demand in no uncertain terms that there should be transparency in the treatment of prisoners, and that prisoners should have the right to see doctors, and not just under the supervision of police and prison officers, but also in circumstances such that the doctors can genuinely carry out serious examinations with proper results.
Thirdly, we must demand that Turkey should attempt to reach a consensus within its borders, in particular with human rights organisations and in relation to the human rights situation in prisons, and that it should consider how the situation can be improved and a basic consensus can be achieved in this respect.
Fourthly, those inmates who are currently being held as political prisoners under existing and defunct laws - and it is often admitted in Turkey that there are such prisoners - should be released.
This would certainly defuse the situation in overcrowded prisons.
Fifthly, we must demand a change in Turkey's laws.
After all, it is not just a question of saying that once they are detained, prisoners should be properly treated and that when there is a hunger strike an attempt should be made to resolve the situation peacefully.
The real question is why there are so many people in prison.
The reason that there are so many people in prison is that there are laws which provide for people to be punished because of their convictions, which may also find expression through written declarations or statements, rather than punishing them for actual acts which they have committed.
This is simply unacceptable in a modern democracy.
With that in mind, Mr President, I wish to appeal once more to Turkey to finally eliminate these laws from its penal code and to stop incarcerating political prisoners.
