Mr President, Mr Duisenberg, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank Mr Maaten for his report and also for having incorporated the content of previous reports including mine into his own, and for reiterating those points that have not yet been fully implemented, because they have not lost any of their importance.
Thank you very much for that.
Secondly, there is a lot of juggling with figures, but they are all relative.
I would just like to mention a couple from my own country, where we heard yesterday that 63% of people think it is right that Austria should be a member of the economic and currency union from the outset, 43% see the euro as an advantage and 24% are neutral on this, which means that 67% are in favour.
That does mean, however, that we still have a great deal to do.
I would also like to make a few points clear for the benefit of the public.
The euro is not "coming", as you see on many posters, it already exists, and it is a success.
Every country has benefited from it, price stability has grown, Europe's economic independence has been enhanced, exports and tourism have been given a lasting boost by eliminating exchange rate fluctuations, and a start has been made on reducing government and budget deficits.
I call on the governments of all the Member States to inform their parliaments and the public about the advantages of the euro in the euro area and not just to give the impression that something new and unknown is about to arrive.
The next point that I consider important is that the euro is not a political project and, please excuse me, Mr Duisenberg, you cannot say that it is just a matter for the ECB - that is a point in your favour, you are doing your job well in this respect - and for the banks, nor is it just something for finance ministers.
It is a political project and not just a financial product and I therefore believe that we should involve education policy, small and medium-sized enterprises and consumers more in information policy.
