Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about e-mails, spamming and a wide range of other subjects.
I think that we should distinguish between three main areas, i.e. from business to business, from business to customer and from customer to customer.
Then we should start thinking about principles.
I do not believe that a separate solution is necessarily required for each type of technical communication.
We are all familiar with the idea that you can attach a sticker to a mailbox.
We have all learned to use the telephone, mobiles, sms, and e-mail.
I think that the real challenge now is to think about how we want to use this technology and this range of information and advertising opportunities in future.
Of course, it is important to take values into account here.
I know people who say: I want to receive as much information as possible in a wide range of areas.
I want to be able to decide for myself what I keep and what I throw away.
There are others who say: I only want to receive the information which I have requested myself.
We are also familiar with this concept with regard to debt payable to, and debt collectible by, the creditor.
I think we should discuss this point in detail as well.
As regards cyber war and cybercrime, we should focus on three main points.
We should step up research and development in this area, especially in Ispra near Milan.
I think there is a great deal of work to be done in this area, especially as regards security in the Commission and the Parliament.
We should think about the type of education and training we can offer in this field, e.g. at colleges of higher education and through university departments.
I think that action is needed here.
We must also think about the type of security infrastructure which should be available in the hardware and software fields in future.
Finally, I should like to say that a separation of powers is also important.
The prosecution services, the courts and the operators must work together to ensure that these systems are not abused.
