Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simpson, we have to agree with much of what you said.
It is true that it became clear in 1989 with the liberalisation package that the European Community must not only ensure fair competition but must also ensure safety in aviation.
The present amendment of the regulation aims to do that and I think it is right for the European institutions to clearly assume their responsibility.
That means that if we are responsible for regulating aviation safety in Europe, we must also take the appropriate action.
But at the same time we must also make it clear that Parliament and political bodies such as the Commission and the Council should not disregard the vote of experts.
So I very much welcome the fact that we held a very pragmatic debate in committee and nobody really tried to enter into the details of the technical rules or, so to speak, to put political knowledge above the knowledge of the experts.
You quite rightly also pointed out, and I think that is quite clear, that we need rules on duty time, and I myself am surprised that in spite of this long process the social partners have still not managed to put rules together.
That is why I also think it is right for us as Parliament to make it clear once again that we expect the social partners airlines and employees' representatives to fulfil their obligation.
We are prepared to introduce this into the regulation too, at second reading.
On the other hand, we are equally prepared to put our own rules in place if the social partners do not fulfil their obligation.
For one thing is quite clear: safety in aviation must take priority.
Yet safety in aviation cannot be ensured just by having rules, especially not overarching rules.
That is why I also say quite plainly: however much we can agree with large sections of the report, we do not consider it appropriate for Parliament to introduce its own detailed provisions into this regulation in certain areas under the heading, for instance, of "one cabin crew member operations" or length of experience, i.e. how long someone has already served as a cabin crew member.
So unfortunately we will not be able to vote for your Amendments Nos 9 and 10, which concern such proposals.
I was somewhat surprised to see how intently the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism considered and discussed the question of hand baggage.
In my view that is not an issue for a parliament to discuss and I can only say to Mr Simpson and my other colleagues: let the airlines regulate that; it is not the job of Members.
