Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission says it cannot cope with the ever growing number of Community programmes and their implementation with its statutory number of staff.
That may be right.
It means the Commission must delegate and decentralise.
Various models have in the past proved unsuitable or failures.
Either they were not financially transparent, like the minibudgets, or they were conducive to fraud like the TAOs, which is why Parliament demanded their abolition.
Now the Commission is presenting a proposal for a regulation for the statute of so-called executive agencies, which the rapporteur, Mr Bourlanges, has just explained.
I should like to congratulate him on his very detailed treatment of this proposal.
I should like to underline a number of important points in his report.
The Commission must provide a precise list of the tasks to be transferred, whether they are public or non-public and the type of executive agency to which they are to be transferred.
Unfortunately, we do not yet have the promised handbook about that.
But it must be clear that responsibility for the proper and economic execution of the transferred tasks lies with the Commission, which is subject to discharge by Parliament, which means there can be no discharge for the agencies themselves.
Parliament must be provided with all the information and documents it requires for the purpose without delay.
The agencies are also subject to scrutiny by the Court of Auditors and, where appropriate, also by OLAF.
The Commission is also legally liable for the executive agencies, since they are not anchored in the Treaty as institutions in their own right.
The agencies must be evaluated within not more than three years to check they are operating as they should.
Finally, all contracts with outside agencies must be limited in time.
Mr Bourlanges has just mentioned that.
The framework regulation makes no provision for their term to be extended.
But I think there ought to be provision for that.
It is at all events important that at least 25% of executive agency staff should be seconded Commission officials in order to ensure internal supervision of administrative tasks and to see that the Commission' s responsibilities are fulfilled.
