Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before going into the directive on the minimum requirements for the protection of pigs in detail, I should like to make a few basic points.
I personally consider that it is high time we got the debate on animal protection back on track.
The debate on animal protection has thrown up highly exaggerated demands recently, in the wake of the BSE and foot-and-mouth crises and with regard to the quality of food, which are totally unrealistic.
I all too rarely hear any serious debate with qualified specialists.
Too often hysteria gets the upper hand and hits the headlines.
I will not beat about the bush: animals are animals and people are people.
We keep animals in order to make use of them and if we want animal husbandry which is suited to the species, then it must indeed be suited to the species.
This means, for example, that animals such as chickens, pigs or fish are not being kept in a way which is suited to their species if we try to apply humane or ethical concepts to them.
I know full well that agriculture is a difficult area, especially with the work it has to do and the problems that it has, and especially for those who are not directly affected.
That is why it is all the more important for us to be able to make an informed judgement and to apply that judgement so that everything we decide here can be implemented and applied in practice.
We cannot issue policy from an ivory tower and we have failed in our duty if our policy is not reflected in practical measures for our citizens.
Now to the report.
I can support the compromises found with all my heart because the minimum requirements set here pose no problems for Austrian agriculture or Austrian farmers.
Economic and ecological aspects need to be taken into account in the debate.
The geographical location of the farm also plays a part, as do structural requirements.
Development funds must be channelled to this sector because there is huge potential for investment.
I should like to close by saying that specialist training for stockmen and other people involved is absolutely essential.
