Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between adolescents and alcohol is not a new problem.
Alcohol is part and parcel of adult social life.
It is therefore logical that adolescents will come into contact with alcohol as they approach adulthood.
Children and adolescents are normally unaware of the dangers of excessive alcohol consumption; born of curiosity to try new things, it can quickly become a habit.
The average age at which children and adolescents try their first alcoholic drink has not fallen.
Young people continue to have their first contact with alcohol in their early teens, as in the past.
The age at which regular alcohol consumption begins, however, is falling steadily.
Alcohol consumption by children and adolescents is an extremely emotive subject, since it concerns the rising generations of European citizens.
The animated discussions in our committee left me in no doubt of the importance of this subject to every one of us.
At this point I should like to thank all my fellow members for their contributions.
We overwhelmingly took the view that responsibility in this area could not be assigned to parents alone; it was essential to create basic conditions in which adolescents could learn everything they needed to know in order to deal with exposure to alcohol.
I should therefore like to re-emphasise that my opinion relates specifically to children and adolescents and their dealings with alcohol and not to the health implications of alcohol abuse in general.
In February of this year, as the rapporteur said, a conference was held on the subject of young people and alcohol.
One of the points that were made in the declaration adopted at that conference is crucially important, in my view, and I have taken it into account in my opinion.
It is the fact that care must be taken to ensure greater involvement of young people in these programmes and measures.
It is particularly important that support and assistance be given to schemes devised by young people for young people.
Since children and adolescents are affected by the problem, they must be involved in the effort to resolve it.
This is the only way to ensure that young people actually commit themselves to the cause.
Prohibitions and regulations alone will not help young people to become responsible adults - quite the reverse.
We can only achieve that if we let them learn to assume responsibility themselves.
