Madam President, you really have tormented me; I have had to wait for a long time, and Mr Swoboda has already said something about my temperament.
Madam President, with your answers, you have provided a most welcome contrast to Mr Poettering this afternoon.
You have responded to my questions objectively and in a very focused way.
I have been in politics long enough to know that if you ask the President a question and a group Chairman intervenes excitedly, you are on the right track.
(Applause from the left) For that reason, Madam President, I should like, with your permission, to ask you again to answer my questions to which you have not yet responded.
I put three questions to you in all.
Firstly, I asked how you explain the fact that such a sensitive matter could be left lying for so long by the Spanish authorities without being dealt with.
After all, Madam President, you sent an enquiry to the Spanish authorities, and they very discourteously made you wait for months for a response.
What were the reasons for this delay, in your view, and why did you not demand a reply?
I would also ask you to answer the following questions.
Are you absolutely certain that the Berlusconi/Dell'Utri case is unique?
In other words, is it the only case in which the Spanish Supreme Court has sent an application direct to the European Parliament?
Is this the first time this has happened?
Can you definitely rule out any possibility that similar cases have arisen in the past, when the Spanish Supreme Court has approached Parliament direct and Parliament has immediately initiated its usual procedure?
So my precise question is this: has there previously been a case like this one - which has given rise to doubt in your mind - where the Supreme Court has contacted the President of this House direct, and has Parliament accepted this procedure on a previous occasion?
I would ask you to answer this question for me, because this has nothing to do with the Italian election campaign.
Instead, my intention is to ensure that every Member of this House is treated equally, regardless of whether they are called Dell'Utri, Berlusconi, Poettering or Schulz.
That is the reason for my questions, nothing else!
(Applause from the left)
