Mr President, Commissioner, I should like, as a member of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, to thank you for thinking also of the competitiveness of the European aviation industry in the course of your negotiations.
The Sabena disaster just goes to show how thousands of jobs can be hit within the shortest period of time.
Finally, the costs that have to be borne by airline companies are also a decisive factor affecting ticket prices.
Ticket prices are very important for social, but not exclusively social, reasons.
The crucial problem when it comes to noise is congestion.
When we fly out of Brussels, we often see five, ten or fifteen aircraft queuing on the runway, waiting for permission to take off.
I believe that the fight against congestion in general, but particularly in the field of aviation, must be given priority and that we must make efforts to acquire more efficient systems so that such congestion can be reduced accordingly.
However, the basic and further training of personnel is also crucial, and not only in the control tower and on the aircraft.
If consideration were to be given to providing special training, specifically from the noise and environmental viewpoints, a very great deal could be achieved in this area.
Finally, it is also a question of infrastructure.
We are all aware of the problems with Eurocontrol, and enough is known about the difficulties of dividing air space efficiently between civil and military aircraft.
I believe the Commission should exercise significantly more pressure so that we might more quickly find successful ways of getting on top of congestion and, at the same time, guaranteeing passengers greater safety and comfort.
My final point is that the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Development is currently being drawn up.
I consider it necessary to press very hard for a solution for the traffic sector in particular.
In this area, we need new approaches in the Sixth Framework Programme.
We know that congestion will be one of the main themes of the next few years.
I believe we need intelligent solutions that will help us guarantee the mobility of the population and, at the same time, get on top of the problems.
With a view to being able to offer the population convincing solutions in this area, we should therefore do more to initiate our own research programmes specifically for aviation in the context of the Sixth Framework Programme.
