Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgets welcomes the proposed rapid reaction facility.
We support this Community mechanism, which is designed to make resources available for urgent non-combat activities related to crisis management and conflict prevention.
It is right and fitting that the European Union should help to preserve or restore public order and to facilitate dialogue, conciliation, mediation and the prevention of human rights abuses.
All of this, however, can only be achieved or become achievable if the facility really is able to respond rapidly.
That is why we emphatically support the Commission's proposal that implementation be based on the committee system, including the involvement of an advisory committee, with the emphasis on the word 'advisory'.
Now over the years, as you know, the Commission - with Parliamentary backing, I hasten to add - has been pursuing a strategy of gradually transferring activities from the ambit of the common foreign and security policy, in other words from the second pillar of the European unification process, to that of the Community, the first pillar.
This trend is continued by the current proposal for the rapid reaction facility.
So far, so good.
But the funds for this purpose must be allocated under Heading 4 of the Financial Perspective.
And all Members of this House have been made aware by at least the last two budgetary processes just how tight our finances are in the foreign-policy budget.
Every year, this allocation has been the subject of our bitterest budgetary wrangling with the Council.
We have no need of a crystal ball to predict a similar situation this year.
For that reason we have asked the lead committee to do two things: firstly, to call on the Commission and Council to outline their intentions and particularly to explain how they intend to divide up responsibilities between themselves in this field and how they intend to finance the relevant activities, and, secondly, to add a recital to the proposed text stating quite clearly that rapid reaction interventions must be financed within Heading 4.
Should that be impossible, provision must be made for a revision of the Financial Perspective.
In addition, we want an obligation to consult Parliament on each action to be financed under the facility.
The rapporteur and the lead committee have complied with these budgetary wishes.
For this we are very grateful to them.
