Mr President, last year, only a few votes prevented the inclusion of the continuing human-rights abuses in China on the agenda in Geneva.
I hope we can be more successful in the coming months in winning over countries that will be represented on the Commission on Human Rights at its 57th session.
Last weekend, in my role as chairman of the Tibet Intergroup of the European Parliament, I attended a conference in Switzerland, where parliamentarians from the EU Member States, the applicant countries and the United States discussed ways of inducing their respective countries to raise the issue of China's gross violations of human rights.
These abuses not only affect the Tibetans but the Uighurs and Mongols too.
Free speech, freedom of assembly and freedom of movement are suppressed.
The Tibetans cannot practise their own religion or celebrate their own culture and certainly cannot engage in autonomous political activity.
Tens of thousands of them have been subjected to persecution, imprisonment and torture.
A sustained campaign is being conducted with a view to converting Buddhist believers into atheists.
We cannot close our eyes to this second cultural revolution.
I am not unaware, Commissioner Vitorino, of the dialogue between the European Union and China.
Nor am I unaware of the role played by China as a member of the WTO and a future global power.
Attempts are being made to deal more sensitively with major trading partners.
I trust that, some day, the old guard of blinkered centralist leaders will be replaced by new reformist elements.
But we cannot wait until that day finally dawns.
We cannot be passive onlookers and fail these masses of people who are being subjected to mental and physical cruelty.
Human rights are not a Western invention.
The new agreements between the European Union and third countries rightly stipulate that contractual obligations will be suspended in the event of either party's failure to respect human rights.
We therefore appeal to the Council and Member States of the EU to take the initiative in Geneva this time; as you said, Mr Danielsson, we are one of the key players.
Along with the United States, Canada and, as I have learned, Switzerland and the applicant countries for accession to the EU, we should try to convince the countries of Africa, Asia and South America that it is high time the subject of China was put on the agenda in Geneva.
Human rights are not of secondary importance.
Human rights are universal fundamental rights.
