Mr President, in 1992, animal welfare organisations from all over Europe presented the European Parliament with the biggest petition ever submitted in the world, a petition signed by 2.5 million people, who in signing it were expressing their support for a ban on animal testing in the cosmetics sector.
My dear Commissioner, I am well aware that when one holds such high office, one no longer needs to be directly elected by the people.
I am quite certain, however, that this will also make a great impression on you and that it will also be clear to you that a very large proportion of the European population backs this request.
The reason for the recent postponement of the marketing ban is quite simply the Commission's fear of the WTO.
And now the proposal is to replace the marketing ban for cosmetic products with a ban on animal testing in the EU.
Do you really believe that the 2.5 million signatories in Europe, the general public and also this Parliament do not realise what is being proposed here?
It is rather embarrassing.
If we cannot even manage to oppose the WTO on such a ridiculous matter as cosmetics and formulate our own moral standards, what will happen with more important issues, such as, for example, hormones in animal products of some kind?
What on earth will we do then?
We will be even more scared.
Allow me to make it clear that this is not about medicinal products - this is sometimes suggested subliminally - but solely about new products.
Everything which is already on the market now, which you can see in any airport, from Elizabeth Arden to Ellen Betrix, all of this can continue to be sold and marketed.
One more thing for the benefit of the scientists here in the room, animal tests are not 100% reliable.
Any scientist will admit that this is true.
Finally, with your permission, I will cite a really great European, perhaps one of the greatest Italians ever to have lived, Leonardo da Vinci.
Even so very long ago he said: the generations which come after us will shudder when they discover how we treat animals.
