Mr President, I will continue where my colleague Mr Stenzel left off.
We had concerns about Turkey's candidate status, but now it is here, and Turkey therefore also has the right to be included in the financial instruments.
I say this without any ifs and buts.
I welcome the fact that this regulation has now established clarity, especially as the European Union has actually done very little to fulfil its financial commitments towards Turkey since the conclusion of the Customs Union Treaty five years ago.
So this is a fresh start which has our full support.
As far as the two programmes are concerned, I wish I could agree with my colleague Mr Stenzel, but I must also point out that it is not enough for us to view the 177 million already envisaged for the pre-accession strategy as a general framework.
As Mr Kuckelkorn has said, new money, i.e. additional funding, must be made available to Turkey for economic and social cohesion.
This is our common concern, and we therefore support Mr Swoboda's report in general terms - not in every respect, and not all the proposed amendments, but its general trend.
The regulation includes an Article 4 which allows funding to be suspended under certain circumstances.
This Article 4 is necessary, and it is now up to Turkey to answer all the questions which we have been asking for years, and make progress with regard to a basic democratic structure, the role of the military in the National Security Council, and human and minority right.
To our great regret, I believe that relatively little has been done in these areas in recent months; on the contrary, we have the impression that the progress initially achieved in the second half of 2000 has now been reversed and that the Turkish side - the government itself - has lost the courage to adopt these measures swiftly and resolutely.
Article 4 is not an instrument which can be used indiscriminately; it is only intended for the event that very serious shortcomings become evident in the pre-accession process, and I hope that it will not need to be used in the near future.
But one thing must be clear: Turkey's accession to the European Union can only take place under the conditions set by Europe, not simply on Turkey's terms.
So far, neither politics nor the government has addressed this misconception held by the Turkish public.
So I would also ask our colleagues on the rostrum to help dispel this misconception at last.
Accession will only take place on our terms.
