Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, John Purvis' s report is a particularly good - by this I mean complete and well balanced - review of the situation surrounding the biotechnology industry in Europe.
This is shown not least by the very large majority in support of the report in committee.
In particular, the call for a coordinated European action plan was backed on all sides of the House and evidently also fell on fertile ground in the Council of Ministers and the Commission.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
At its meeting this week, the European Commission reaffirmed its desire to develop a consistent overall strategy for supporting and developing biotechnology in Europe and to present it to Parliament and the Council by the end of this year.
I am particularly pleased that it is Commissioners Liikanen and Busquin who have stressed the importance of this technology for our economic and scientific future.
At the same time or more or less at the same time, Heads of Government Tony Blair and Wim Kok sent a joint letter to the Swedish President of the Council calling for an economic action plan to promote the European biotechnology industry and giving due emphasis to that call with a raft of suggested measures.
Mr Liese has already said that we are dealing with other issues besides economic matters, and as a Parliament we shall be following all these actions closely.
It is an important, essential prerequisite for the success of this action plan that all decisions should be taken on the basis of the best information available.
We are therefore particularly anxious that full use should be made of the various advisory and scientific committees through which scientific and economic expertise is fed into the preparation and taking of decisions.
I therefore most especially welcome the report' s call for greater use to be made of all these committees and would like to call on the Commission to make greater use than before of all the possibilities for consultation and groundwork, as we should do, too.
