Mr President, Commissioner, as the rapporteur has told us, the number of declarations, resolutions and undertakings on equal opportunities for men and women is pretty respectable.
The Treaty of Amsterdam is ultimately the legal basis and it defines equal opportunities between men and women as one of the main priorities of European policy.
However, although there has been some modest progress, there are still some conspicuous shortcomings.
There is a marked imbalance in the involvement of men and women in the decision-making process, and there are alarming differences between individual Member States.
Throughout Europe, there are especially few women in leading positions in administration and in political decision making.
This means that everyone involved in the economic and social world has to play a part if responsibility is to be distributed evenly across the public and private sectors, in business, politics and family life.
Above all, we need to recognise that the equal opportunities deficit in the labour market is partly attributable to the low proportion of women in Europe's businesses, in its trade unions and in its public sector, and partly attributable to an inadequate social infrastructure, distorted stereotypes and low pay.
One important area we need to tackle is education and training.
Amongst other things, women have to learn to lay claim to a role in leadership and decision making.
You cannot talk about balance when women account for just 40% of all those involved in politics at European or national level.
Quotas are therefore an important instrument if we are to approach this target.
But it is not just a question of increasing the number of women, but also about enhancing their role in society and recognising the quality of their work.
Party and government structures need to be examined and where they are found to be lacking we need to jointly create binding requirements, such as ministries for equal opportunities.
Greater involvement of women in public life needs to be regularly monitored using up-to-date statistics.
This would also clearly demonstrate that not only have we reached targets but that we have also regressed in certain areas.
This means that we have to promote equal opportunities while, at the same time, defending what has already been achieved.
