Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the view of the Committee on Development and Cooperation, it is important to remember that the European Union delegations originated with the delegate controllers who were in charge of implementing the agreements made in the Yaoundé and Lomé Conventions and that their duties were therefore initially based purely on development policy.
Over the years, their range of tasks and geographical coverage have expanded considerably.
Their internal structure has, however, not kept pace with this.
Now there is a need for radical reform which, despite all of the changes which the European Parliament has been calling for for years, will not be achieved through this Commission communication either.
Development policy is no longer the only area of responsibility of the EU's external service, but it is still of huge significance.
The dissolution of political blocs and the changing political processes, including in developing countries, have considerably increased the political as well as the trade and economic dimensions of its work.
This is particularly true of the development partnership with the ACP countries, into which the Cotonou Agreement has introduced new aspects.
It is precisely in this respect, however, that delegation staff lack qualifications and training; it is precisely here that there is a lack of the necessary schemes for flexible personnel deployment, which should definitely allow for the involvement of local graduates or external experts, if necessary with fixed-term contracts for a particular type of task.
In practice, however, delegations in the ACP countries have been and are being threatened with downgrading or even closure.
Many posts remain unfilled for long periods of time, without suitable local staff being considered at least temporarily.
Even the European Court of Auditors criticises this.
The Committee on Development and Cooperation therefore sees a danger that the formation of new regional centres and the move towards regional offices - and good reasons can certainly be put forward in favour of this - could in practice lead to a thinning out of delegation structures in developing countries.
That regional offices are more economical than several individual offices is obvious.
That they are also more effective has not, however, been verified.
Here too the conceptual weakness of the Commission communication manifests itself.
From the point of view of content the Commission is still in debt.
Mr Galeote's report and the proposals of the committees which have drafted opinions will provide an excellent basis for paying it.
