Mr President, after the abortive Nice Summit, we would do well to remember an event that gave the EU a great boost: the Luxembourg Employment Summit.
That summit succeeded in convincing the Member States actively to do more to improve employability and adaptability, to establish a new entrepreneurial spirit and to enhance equal opportunities.
Since then, model measures in the Member States have been a central plank of Europe's employment strategy.
A thorough assessment and evaluation of what these have achieved is to take place: reintegration into working life, activities to promote equality of opportunities, elimination of exclusion, and targeted measures to create a suitable environment for setting up small and medium-sized businesses.
Are we right in our view that European added value can be created if actions in the Member States are interlinked with Community initiatives and with Community education, training and further education programmes?
We want to involve local and regional stakeholders more actively by means of pilot projects and therefore call on the Commission to top up the funding it has proposed.
I believe that a priority here is improved coordination of employment and economic policy, which are, after all, two sides of the same coin.
We now need to have the courage to make more of our potential and not only be consulted when the employment policy guidelines are being drawn up - that is not enough.
As a European Parliament we need to get involved on a more consistent basis in the employment week in Brussels in November, whilst here in Strasbourg we should at long last find time to devote a whole day to a debate on the creation of jobs of the future and the implementation of national action plans.
As part of this, proper attention needs to be paid to the achievements of the social partners and the experiences of employees hit by unemployment and assisted by job creation measures.
Mr President, that would be our contribution towards a good campaign on Europe's employment strategy.
