Mr President, allow me to begin by thanking Karl-Heinz Florenz.
The fact is that he has studied, analysed and discussed no fewer than 334 densely printed pages - 70 pages on hazardous substances and 264 pages on end-of-life equipment.
This is clearly a subject of great complexity, but it is also a very important one, because it affects all the people of the European Union.
Our concern is to press ahead with waste separation and to ensure that electrical and electronic equipment is disposed of separately from household waste.
This is a very important issue.
We know that we currently have about two billion such items in Europe and that some 210 million of them are disposed of every year.
This, when all is said and done, represents six million tonnes and generates costs of approximately EUR 40 billion.
When such an amount is involved, we are duty-bound to consider who should meet the cost and in particular how that cost can be most efficiently and effectively controlled in accordance with market principles; we must ensure that the chosen strategy is the cheapest one for taxpayers and consumers and the best one for the environment.
We know that there is a huge volume of historical waste.
Sixty-six per cent of all these electrical appliances and items of electronic hardware are more than ten years old, while about half of them come from households.
This is why compulsory collection targets are so very important.
It is also the reason why we have been so firmly committed to the six-kilogram target.
We want recycling to be conducted in a truly systematic manner and on a scale which ultimately makes sound economic and budgetary sense.
What is important to me about bans on particular substances is that we must only replace such substances with demonstrably better, sustainable and, most importantly, scientifically tested alternatives.
This is an area in which the Commission must act, on the one hand to prevent damage and on the other hand to choose the best option in ecological terms.
