Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
We now have before us the Council' s common position on amending the directives containing basic rules for the performance of official inspections of feed and concerning animal nutrition.
Mrs Paulsen has at the end again made the reason for this clear.
The crises and scandals of recent years have made a revision of the rules concerning feed an urgent necessity.
Amending the directive will harmonise the conduct of official feed inspections in Europe and enshrine them in law.
Member States will now be obliged to introduce appropriate emergency measures to deal with serious risks involving feed.
The Commission is empowered to adopt temporary precautionary measures if animal nutrition products manufactured in the EU present a serious risk to humans, animals or the environment.
Member States are obliged to inform the Commission immediately and in full of any case of contamination.
This will ensure that the Commission is able to act at once.
Member States must also prepare an annual report of all incidents and irregularities involving feed and forward it to the Commission.
The Council has accepted the European Parliament' s core demands for comprehensive feed inspections, namely the use of a generic term covering all products intended for use in the food and feed chain down to the final consumer.
These were included in the common position.
This took account of the intensive debate in the European Parliament.
At this point I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Paulsen, sincerely for her handling of this difficult task.
However, the Council was unable to comply with Parliament' s call for the directive also to be extended to changes that occur as a result of faults and flaws in the manufacturing process.
Mrs Paulsen has just referred to this.
For that reason, the rapporteur has retabled the corresponding amendments from the first reading in the slightly modified form required, as she has described.
The report was accepted unanimously by the Committee on the Environment Public Health and Consumer Policy.
The adjustments made to the tabled amendments were necessary in order to bring them closer to the corresponding articles of Directive 1999/29/EC on undesirable substances and products in animal nutrition.
They were also brought into line with the corresponding article of the TSE Regulation on Community inspections.
Acceptance of the amendments would create a uniform, clear and transparent inspection system tailored to the new requirements of the time.
