Mr President, I can only speak for a majority of my group on this issue.
We support the Commission' s proposal and the report.
I do not think there is any need to repeat several of Mr Swoboda' s criticisms which I agree with.
Mr Brok' s remarks about the need for a preventive peace policy and civil crisis management render my own outline comments superfluous.
Of course, it is quite correct to say that far more rapid and concerted action is required.
However, I believe that there are also very different sides to this policy which have various drawbacks.
Mr Brok, in your proposed Amendment No 2, you state - quite rightly, in my view - that financial support can be provided to the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia as far as it proceeds towards a well-functioning legal state, including cooperation with the International Court Tribunal in the Hague.
However, if at the same time a violation of rule-of-law principles is extorted, in effect, above all by the USA but apparently also by the German Chancellor, this policy is more likely to discredit the rule of law and democratic development in the long term.
I see these contradictions in other areas too.
Macedonia has been mentioned.
For many months, we have courted the KLA, without any decommissioning of arms taking place.
KFOR therefore shares the blame for developments in Macedonia and the outbreaks of fresh conflict.
In Kosovo, we pursued a policy which was designed to prevent ethnic cleansing; today, we witness other completely unacceptable instances of ethnic cleansing in the wake of the NATO campaign.
In my view, this is incompatible with a preventive and sustainable security policy.
I believe that the time has come to move away from a policy which contains the conflicts and limits the damage to which it has itself contributed.
It is time to expect and demand democracy, the rule of law and the protection of minority and human rights not only from our political opponents but also to practise them even when they stand in the way of our own power-political interests.
I think that the positive developments in Yugoslavia have genuinely achieved a great deal, but changes in NATO and EU policy are long overdue.
