Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should first like to extend warm thanks to the rapporteur of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, Mr Harbour.
The report is excellent and, by tabling constructive proposals and also holding intensive negotiations with colleagues, Mr Harbour has really managed to strike a good compromise, which met with broad support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Single Market and will - I am sure - also find favour tomorrow in the plenary.
Much has already been said about the content of the directive and I only wish to focus on what I feel to be the essential points.
The first is the scope of the universal service obligations.
Firstly, the fact that the universal service is to include simple but not broadband Internet connections is to be welcomed.
In some parts of the Community it will not be possible for the infrastructure required for broadband connections to be rolled out or upgraded to the necessary technical standard in the next few years.
In addition, in some places there is still insufficient demand for these kinds of connections.
It should in the first instance therefore be left to market forces to offer these connections without there being any regulatory pressure to do so.
Competition on the local network and thus in providing Internet access has been made possible by the regulation on unbundling the local loop.
It is now important to apply this directive consistently as quickly as possible so that a sufficient number of broadband connections can be made available quickly and at a reasonable price.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has tabled one amendment, Amendment No 9 on Article 4a), which unfortunately, in my view, takes us in the wrong direction, namely by including high-speed Internet access in the universal service obligations after all.
It states that the Member States should prescribe particular data transfer rates based on the latest technology.
For the reasons which I have stated I feel that this amendment goes too far.
I welcome the inclusion in the directive of a future European regional code '3883'.
I believe that this is an information measure which will also promote our internal market.
I also welcome the provisions on number portability in the mobile sector.
This too has already been mentioned by Mr van Velzen.
I can only hope that Mr Harbour's report meets with broad support tomorrow.
All in all it is a really good piece of work!
