Mr President, the Commission is informed that Turkey has approved a financial protocol worth USD 350 million over the next three years in favour of the northern part of Cyprus.
This money is budgetary support, designed to enable the northern part of Cyprus to implement the budgetary consolidation plan that was announced last year.
The decision on the financial protocol was taken on 12 January 2001 at the fourth meeting of the so-called Association Council of Turkey and the northern part of Cyprus.
Other points discussed at the same meeting relate to measures for the facilitation of trade.
These measures are likewise intended to contribute to the economic support of the northern part of Cyprus.
Mr Gürel, a Minister of State in the Turkish Government, stated before the meeting that the aim of these measures was to overcome the economic crisis in the northern part of Cyprus.
He did, however, repudiate suggestions that Turkey sought to incorporate the northern part of Cyprus as its eighty-second province.
The Commission expects the Turkish side to make every effort to contribute constructively to the attempts to achieve a comprehensive settlement of the Cypriot question that are being undertaken in the framework of the UN peace process.
If the stalled UN talks are to be reactivated, both sides must demonstrate genuine willingness to resume their dialogue and to engage in substantive negotiations.
The Commission will continue to give unstinting support to the efforts of the United Nations Secretary-General and of all interested parties to achieve a lasting peace settlement.
This applies both in political terms and with regard to the provision of the requisite information on the aspects of established Community law and practice that should be taken into account in any settlement of the Cypriot problem.
The Commission takes every opportunity to reiterate its position to the interested parties.
The Cypriot question is one of the subjects of the intensified political dialogue between the European Union and Turkey that the European Council launched at its Helsinki meeting in December 1999.
