Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has presented a proposal on minimum standards for the protection of pigs in order to improve the welfare of these animals.
I think it is a real pity that animal protection directives are being issued rather than regulations.
I say this as an enthusiastic supporter of regulations because, when directives are implemented, they generally bring new distortions of competition in their wake in my country.
I do not intend to address all the individual compromise amendments proposed here because a great deal of what we have set out here is, in my view, glaringly self-evident.
To cite just one example: training for qualifications is recommended, but young farmers in Germany gave up trying to survive in this fiercely competitive sector without qualifications a long time ago.
I think it is a great pity that the Commissioner does not have much time to listen but I shall address the controversial interests of consumer organisations once again, given that they are wheeled out in every debate and everyone keeps saying that consumers are calling for better protection for animals.
Just by chance, I received Commissioner Fischler's press communiqué yesterday in which he said during an interview with a German broadsheet that consumer habits have now reversed post BSE.
According to Commissioner Fischler, people are increasingly turning to cheap supplies once more.
My many years' experience confirms precisely that.
People obviously have to watch their budget and we need to be sensitive here and not overstep the mark.
Everything we do has a very decisive impact on costs.
Many of our proposed amendments refer to slot widths.
We almost make out that we are experts here.
I think others are far better placed to judge.
Mr President, I think that you know everything there is to know about pig production in Bavaria.
You know what it means when we talk about docking tails, castration, teeth clipping and all these important things.
I should like to close by saying that we need to strike a balance between animal protection, health and environmental aspects.
We also need acceptable transition times for the whole business.
