Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in transport policy we still do not pay intermodal transport the attention it deserves.
Hitherto, in fact, only 8% of European freight transport is intermodal, as my colleague just said.
That is why this kind of transport is often not taken seriously enough yet.
But intermodal goods transport is both the expression and the measure of the European integration strategy, which seeks to integrate not only the individual, national transport markets but also the various transport modes.
Following the liberalisation strategy that is not quite completed yet and the harmonisation that has begun, the single market needs this integration strategy if it is to have a viable future.
That is why the reports on the progress in implementing the action programme for intermodal transport also reflects the progress made in European transport policy.
The communication from the Commission and the report have raised many, indeed all the important issues: the reviews of the trans-European networks aimed at establishing a genuinely intermodal network, measures to create value-added logistical systems, the measures that are still needed to harmonise load units and so forth, genuinely intermodal information, standardised transport messages and documents, the development of a uniform intermodal liability regime and many others.
Here, as we all know, we need a whole range of regulatory, political measures to ensure that intermodal transport really has a viable future.
Because the framework conditions are so complex and because the development of intermodal transport is still far from being a self-sustaining process, we need a great number of successful pilot projects.
So I hope we will get a well-funded new PACT programme, that will be usable by the candidate countries even at this stage, for it is there that many of the decisions are taken that concern our future.
The signals are not all set wrong there yet.
I also hope that we will give intermodal transport due importance in the Sixth Framework Research Programme.
In our view, in future pilot projects should look more at strategic aspects, i.e. at linking up the existing intermodal part-networks.
Another aspect that has not really been addressed is this: perhaps we could look into the conditions for creating new European, intermodal operators.
For we do not yet have any real operators in this area.
Perhaps, theoretically at least, and as a kind of precedent, an international company could manage Alpine transit transport on an intermodal basis.
Of course we are also in favour of the European Reference Centre for Intermodalism that keeps being announced and hope it will soon become a reality.
