Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the American trade representative Bob Zoelleck made this House an unequivocal but positive offer in the competent committees via the Kangaroo Group, namely that we jointly devise an open trade policy for increasing prosperity throughout the world, including in developing countries.
I think that we should take up this offer and start looking at trade policy as a way of broadening transatlantic relations as a whole.
We all know that NATO will still need to play a major role in the collective defence of Europe for a long time to come.
We seem, understandably, to have lost all awareness of common security since 1990, which is why we need to ensure that relations between the United States of America and Europe are strengthened in every other political field.
We should take up this offer by the US Administration.
In doing so, we should also further the opportunity for relations between our House and the American Congress, provided that we can make our contribution here.
You only need look at the difficulties we have experienced with data protection over recent years, because we have no jointly agreed legislation for global economic areas, to see just how far the transatlantic legislators' dialogue needs to go.
I should like, if I may, to address one last point: the United States are now the only superpower in the world and they approach foreign policy problems as such.
Their relations with Russia are predicated on this global position, while Europe defines its position from a regional standpoint and sees it in the context of the enlargement process.
But that should not mean that we pass up the opportunity to pursue a joint strategic approach in this region.
I have a feeling that we have not pursued a joint policy in connection with Ukraine over recent weeks.
Now that the westward looking government has been ousted and Chernomyrdin has taken over as governor with the title ambassador to Kiev, it is obvious that we have made strategic blunders which we must not underestimate and which - to my chagrin - we have not discussed even once in the General Council this week.
