Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a sustainable and profitable forestry and wood industry is highly important for Europe in many ways.
I would like to remind you about both environmental aspects and eco-social and economic aspects.
As a raw material, wood is the most important renewable energy source in Europe, and no one should underestimate the importance in regional policy terms of small and medium-sized businesses in the wood industry and in forestry as providers of jobs in rural areas.
This sector is a key factor in a multifunctional agricultural and forestry industry.
Together, the forestry and wood industries provide millions of jobs in Europe.
A sustainable forestry industry can make a substantial contribution to climate protection and to achieving the Kyoto objectives.
Globally speaking, we must protect our forests in order to defend ourselves against disasters.
I am therefore very grateful to the previous speaker for her comments.
I would particularly like to draw attention to protected forests and virgin forests in the Alps.
Appropriate proposals for the construction industry need to be pursued.
The use of wood and wood products in the building industry should be promoted, and wood should increasingly be used instead of other construction materials.
A further advantage of wood is that it involves fixing large quantities of CO2 over long periods.
I therefore support the approach of using targeted marketing and advertising measures for wood products to raise public awareness.
We need to provide information and advice about the advantages of these products throughout Europe.
I am not advocating a Community forestry policy, but rather a common forestry strategy for Europe, with the Commission playing a proper coordinating role.
The various aspects of forest-based and related industries should be coordinated within a single directorate-general, and it would make sense for this to be the directorate-general for agriculture, which would also need to be adequately staffed to cope with the wide variety of tasks involved.
Without forestry there can be no wood industry.
So I hope that the House will accept this logic and vote for Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
