Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for her work.
I welcome the report and consider European cooperation in quality evaluation in school education to be important in this age of information.
The European education systems must become attuned to the information society.
Rapid scientific and technological change, together with globalisation, demand superior educational standards.
We need an education system that can easily adapt to rapid developments in modern society.
What constitutes a good school education these days?
Is it about imparting knowledge and expertise?
There is more to it than that.
I believe it is the role of education in terms of the self-realisation of the individual and his or her participation in a democratic, socially just and tolerant society that is crucial to the definition of a high quality education.
Young people must be given the opportunity to acquire academic and social competences at school.
Everyone is entitled to a good school education, and that goes for foreign nationals and groups on the fringe of society too.
They are particularly at risk of social marginalisation because they are not as well educated.
I call upon the Member States of the European Union to ensure that everyone receives the same standard of education.
The social divide between the informed and the uninformed must be bridged.
Quality evaluation in school education is to be welcomed for two reasons.
Firstly, I regard the evaluation as a way of incentivising people to improve school education, and secondly, it raises awareness of the quality dimension in education systems.
The Member States of the European Union must work together in the field of quality evaluation in school education, because this is of crucial importance to labour market policy and the free movement of workers within the EU.
In addition, organisations and associations working in the field of quality evaluation in school education should cooperate at European level.
We need European networks so as to be able to offer mutual support and to get the external evaluation process off the ground.
After all, schools, associations, and organisations can learn from one another by exchanging information and experiences and so find exemplary solutions to providing a good education.
I am committed to the idea of providing a good education, as a way of preventing unemployment and social exclusion.
A high-quality education is an investment in the future, for the sake of social progress, a peaceful world and tolerance.
