, Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy.
Mr President, I too should like to thank the Swedish presidency and, more especially, you Madam President-in-Office, for your cooperation.
The Irish vote proves that our citizens want Europe, but that they want a Europe they understand, a Europe that is transparent, capable of action and democratic.
So exactly how do things stand right now?
We have a treaty which no one approves of, but which everyone says must be ratified because otherwise enlargement hangs in the balance.
But what will happen if the treaty is ratified in fourteen national parliaments - meaning that not a single comma can then be changed - and is then rejected by Ireland for a second time in the autumn of 2002?
That is taking a huge risk.
Perhaps we should be preparing other options, so that the formal conditions for enlargement, such as the number of seats and votes and questions for the enlargement treaties themselves can be negotiated, as we did on previous occasions?
I think we should at least prepare such an option, so as to avoid delaying enlargement and sending out the wrong message and giving rise to uncertainty in the candidate countries between now and November 2002.
We must ensure that the post-Nice process is speeded up through public debate and a convention and can be wrapped up by the end of 2003, as the Méndez de Vigo/Seguro report suggests.
For the rest, I would advise the governments in the Member States to take a good look at this report, because it contains a whole series of tips on how to manage this crisis.
We have no use now for tricks, protocols, opt outs or anything else of the sort; what we need is a treaty which clearly shows our citizens how they can play a part in Europe.
And although the Schröders and Fischers and Jospins and Blairs may have given brilliant visionary speeches over recent months, I for one should like to see them convert some of these fantasies into practical policy and for our social-democratic Europe not to go down in history as the Europe which was unable to resolve its problems, either present or future.
