Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Niebler has done a brilliant job with this very difficult subject, which I had to deal with on behalf of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
No one will deny that, in view of developments in technology, a new regulatory framework on frequency policy is needed.
However, certain basic principles have to be borne in mind here, since although the technology itself is neutral, the way it is used is not.
The Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, whose unanimous opinion I am presenting here, has, amongst other things, considered how it can be guaranteed that adequate transmission capacity is reserved for content addressed to the general public.
In other words, in addition to economic issues, consideration also has to be given to political, cultural and social aspects, and also to the right to privacy and to consumer protection.
This applies first and foremost to broadcast programming content relating to the expression of cultural diversity, freedom of speech and pluralism, which therefore plays a significant part in shaping opinion as part of the democratic process.
This is all the more important given that the proposal quite rightly stresses the fact that radio frequencies are a scarce resource and that this will not change in the longer term.
It would therefore be wrong to place too much emphasis on economic efficiency.
Products geared to the general public should also have a guaranteed place in an open competition-oriented market for electronic communication networks and services.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has not entirely taken on board the views of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport in this respect, as we would have wished, but it does recognise the principle of freedom of speech, and this is a key reason why we are willing to vote for the report as it stands.
It is also emphasised elsewhere that democratic, social and cultural interests connected with frequency use need to be taken into account.
The Member States should also be expected to comply with that requirement, including Italy - please note, Mr Berlusconi.
