Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the common position, as amended by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, is an attempt to strike a fair balance between the interests of artists, authors and rightholders and the interests of consumers.
The common position therefore regulates when third parties can copy copyright protected works such as texts, graphics, music or films.
Member States are also required to protect copy protection under the law.
It is important, from the consumer's point of view, that private copies will be allowed in future.
There are - and this has been addressed several times today - differing views as to what constitutes a private copy.
In my view, the definition should include the family environment.
That means that the proposed wording accepted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has my full support.
Finally, it is also important from the consumer's point of view that new remuneration schemes, i.e. levies on equipment or media, can only be introduced if they help to achieve equal levies throughout Europe.
Unilateral national action, such as the so-called PC levy, which keeps cropping up in discussions in the Member States, would only make equipment even more expensive.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market has also tabled proposals here and I call on Parliament to support them tomorrow.
Finally, the directive also regulates when broadcasting organisations are entitled to use their archive productions for on-demand services and when they must first sign a contract with all the rightholders involved in the TV production giving them the right to do so.
The rights, the archives of broadcasting organisations are of immeasurable cultural and historical value.
We must therefore do everything we can to make these archives accessible, including for online use.
I therefore urge the House to support Article 11 and I agree here with my fellow Member, Mrs Villiers.
I think that there is every reason to offer a separate regulation for public radio.
