Mr President, Mr Bolkestein, ladies and gentlemen, conciliation is a question of reaching a balance, a question of compromise.
It involves give and take on both sides.
As part of the European legislative process we often find Parliament and the Council negotiating hard in the conciliation procedure.
However the outcome is generally a balanced result that the European Parliament can accept.
But this does not apply in the case of the "takeover directive", which, after many years' work, should now be before us in its final form.
The European Parliament should reject the result which emerged from a night session in Luxembourg.
It is worthless.
I am saying that to you quite frankly, although I was a member of this House's delegation to the negotiations.
However, I can also tell you that we have never been treated so frostily in any of the Conciliation Committees in which I have been involved.
There was not a trace of mutual give and take!
By an overwhelming majority, the Council's negotiating team largely swept aside the ideas adopted by the European Parliament.
I do not want to go through the details already mentioned again point by point.
However, I would warn against this House sweeping the decisions it took by a convincing majority under the carpet and accepting an obscure conciliation result.
We would lose face and the public would quite rightly ridicule us for our weakness.
In fact the result of the conciliation process that we have before us is so poor that after that night in Luxembourg Commissioner Bolkestein stood before the press and said that legal fine tuning would still be needed.
I think that must have been a joke, because there really has been plenty of time for legal fine tuning over all the years.
But we should let the Commissioner have his wish!
We should reject the text that emerged from the Conciliation Committee and Commissioner Bolkestein can present a workable new draft before long, one which matches not only his ideas but also the ideas of the elected representatives of 370 million Europeans.
