Mr President, if we look at the list of EU Member States which have already ratified the Treaty, we see that five of the six founder Members have already completed ratification.
Only the Netherlands has not, although it campaigned exceptionally hard for this Court and also for its headquarters.
We therefore wonder what lies behind this.
Of the remaining nine Member States of the European Union, there are only three which have already ratified it, including much maligned Austria.
I should also like to call on the other States of the European Union to initiate the ratification process as soon as possible.
We need this Criminal Court so that international crimes against humanity - which, as you know, have unfortunately not diminished but tended to increase in number - can finally be referred to a significant, objective and worldwide body.
Earlier we spoke about Cambodia.
We are debating the former Yugoslavia.
The special tribunals which are set up there are certainly justified.
But we must be aware that they are being defamed by some nationalist forces in these countries who say that they are victors' courts.
To prevent this from continuing to happen, it is tremendously important for there soon to be one unified criminal court throughout the world so that we no longer need to operate through special courts.
The Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in The Hague is very commendable.
It needs our support.
But you will have seen that two days ago President Kostunica, who only recently was making solemn speeches in Parliament, refused to receive Justice Del Ponte because she was allegedly not of equal rank in accordance with the rules of protocol.
This is scandalous.
It shows how important it is not only to enshrine legal standards in international law throughout the world, directed against expulsion, mass murder and aggression, but also to provide the corresponding instruments with which to enforce them.
This is first and foremost this Criminal Court.
We have worked hard for it and it is high time that it be able to take up its duties.
