Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we need to get one thing straight here.
This hypothesis, that the Community is breaking Treaty law is simply nonsense.
Treaty law makes provision for adjustment and this proposal adjusts just one point of the law.
So it is not a question of breaking Treaty law.
The non-attached member is moaning that we are not treating the environment properly and is calling for environmental protection.
Well my question to my fellow Austrian member is this: when will you stump up the money for the Brenner base tunnel?
Then you would be doing something for environmental protection.
We are, in fact, taking far too long about implementing the Brenner base tunnel.
That is the only real solution to the problem of transit traffic in the Alps.
Instead of bandying fine words, Madam, you would do well to push ahead with plans for the base tunnel and stump up the money.
That would be your job in a government in which you are represented.
We do not need vox pops!
Mr Stockmann made a great number of valid points, namely that the main objective, to reduce NOx emissions, has in fact almost been achieved and that the 108% clause is disproportionate and inaccurate.
Mr Stockmann, vote with us tomorrow in favour of the Commission proposal and you will achieve exactly what you want to achieve.
I can understand that you do not want to stab your Austrian rapporteur in the back, but consider carefully how you intend to vote tomorrow.
Vote in favour of the Commission proposal.
Just two more brief comments.
If we maintain this clause, there will be no change in real freight volumes; instead the transit journeys which are no longer possible will be replaced by a journey using one haulier into Austria, transhipment and a journey using another haulier out of Austria.
In other words, transit would be split, we would have more exhaust emissions and more costs to consumers.
That is not the solution.
The solution is to build the Brenner base tunnel so that we can shift freight from the roads to the railways in the long term.
That is what we should be fighting for.
