Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I start by pointing out once again that there is a connection between the 1 January 2002, when notes and coins will make the euro a tangible reality for all our citizens, the Maastricht criteria and the Stability and Growth Pact.
That we now have a stable euro for the whole of the euro zone is due both to the steady hand of the European Central Bank and the fact that the Stability and Growth Pact was the right pact.
For me, reducing debt means taking responsibility for the future.
For me, reducing debt and reducing the deficit each year mean a radical change of policy, because for years now we have sold the future down the river in our economic and budgetary policies, using the young generation in each country as packhorses, rather than lifting the burden from their shoulders and opening up future prospects through balanced budgets and surpluses.
The Stability and Growth Pact is therefore a question of responsibility for the future.
On the other hand - if we are to be perfectly honest - it is a really successful binding framework to guard against covetousness and opportunism in day-to-day politics.
It is also an important framework to guard against political misconduct in day-to-day politics and it is also an important framework for a proactive financial, budgetary and economic policy debate in our Member States.
Since the euro, since the Stability and Growth Pact, budgetary policy is talked about far more openly, the deficit is talked about far more openly, the connection between budgetary, financial, economic and structural policy is talked about far more openly and the necessary reforms are being implemented proactively in order to achieve a different objective.
One group is not being played off against another, which is why I am delighted - and I trust that I shall not be misunderstood now that several growth figures are back for discussion because they are being revised - that we are also debating the Stability and Growth Pact and the convergence criteria in the Chamber at the moment, because it shows our people and the public - including politicians - that changes to growth figures do not mean change to the stability and convergence criteria.
The Stability and Growth Pact is not a day-to-day short-term political football and it cannot be changed as and when it becomes difficult to implement and take the next step.
Nor is there any place for lassitude in making adjustments.
I should like to call on everyone to put an end to the lassitude which has set in.
More structural reforms are urgently needed because we need to move from one-off effects to sustainability.
We need to reduce taxes, but not at the expense of the Stability and Growth Pact.
We also need to ensure that lip service - and this comment is addressed to the Council - to more radical reforms in pensions and extending the three pillar model at European level is at last followed by deeds so that we can continue on this path to success.
