Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in common with the vast majority of Members of this House, I too believe that the outcome of the Conciliation Procedure on the reports concerning the railway package has enabled us to take a big step towards opening up the market in international freight transport.
The reports by Mr Swoboda and Mr Jarzembowski set the right tone.
The separation of rail service operations from those of infrastructure management is pre-requisite to the liberalisation of the European railways.
I would like to offer my heartfelt thanks to all concerned for the difficult, but ultimately productive, work undertaken within the Conciliation Committee.
As is apparent from all the other areas that have already undergone liberalisation, competition has a positive effect on the area concerned.
In freight transport, the advantages are tangible and plain for all to see.
If the European railways can improve their competitive position vis-à-vis other modes of transport, especially road transport, this will have a positive impact on the environment and will also help solve the serious problems attending road transport.
In order to achieve these goals, and in fact this is logical, competition must not stop at respective national borders.
It must be able to flourish on a Community-wide basis.
Only in this way will the railways become a real alternative.
Parliament has scored a major success in achieving this goal, all be it with transitional periods.
The same conditions must apply to passenger transport as apply to freight transport.
The problems emanating from the other modes of transport - road transport for example - are not just caused by heavy goods vehicles, but also by passenger transport, of course.
The railway will only be able to win back shares in the transport market if it becomes a viable alternative, and what that means these days is an international outlook, quality of service and customer orientation.
If the railway sets itself this major challenge, it has everything to gain, and all of us with it.
