.
We take the current and future problems of pensions policy and social change very seriously.
The Commission communication and the report by Mr Cercas undoubtedly contain important and positive proposals.
The calls for better social protection for women are a case in point.
However, as regards the basic problem - defending and renewing social protection systems based on solidarity - the report conflicts with the fundamental positions held by our group.
We therefore cannot vote for the report.
The general emphasis on solidarity is clearly at odds with the specific proposals.
The majority of Members of the European Parliament fully support the shift away from statutory pensions schemes based on solidarity towards a three-pillar model of pensions provision.
The report does not develop any fundamental alternatives to the pensions reform initiated by the decisions taken at the Lisbon and Stockholm European Councils, which lacked a social framework.
I think it is especially tragic that by promoting the partial privatisation of pensions systems based on solidarity, European social democracy is breaking radically with its entire historical tradition.
For more than a hundred years, social democracy has fought for a redistributive welfare state based on solidarity.
Now it is at the forefront of the campaign to dismantle it.
The emphasis on demographic arguments, such as the 'greying' of the European societies, is not convincing.
Furthermore, no attempt is made to examine other options - such as the inclusion of all types of income in financing the pensions system, as in Switzerland - in terms of their viability.
'Live longer, save more, spend less!'
These are the watchwords of the 'pensions reform'.
The Commission and the High-Level Working Party on Social Protection are calling for new regulations to push back the current retirement age.
In future, the statutory pension will no longer maintain a person's existing living standards in old age, but will merely offer basic provision.
Maintaining pensions systems based on solidarity is possible even under current and future conditions as long as policies are guided by the principle of social justice rather than the self-seeking interests of banks, investment funds and insurance companies.
We therefore see no reason why we should go along with the proposed change of strategy.
