Mr President, as I said last time: before the courts and on the high seas, we are in God's hands, but at least the Erika I and Erika II packages will help to make the high seas a little safer.
I should like to offer the rapporteurs my warmest thanks.
I think it makes sense and that, with a monitoring and control system, with an independent agency and with a compensation fund in the event of accidents, we have taken a step in the right direction.
As part of this - and this also applies to the Esclopé report - the Commission has proposed setting up a fund for oil pollution, or rather for oil pollution from tankers.
But it has been our experience over recent years that it is not just tanker accidents which cause pollution; other ships also pollute the environment with dangerous substances, often harmful substances such as so-called bunker oil.
That is why it makes sense to opt for a more comprehensive approach here.
For once, I would gladly have heard the Commission comment along the lines of a huge car advertising campaign running in Germany: 'Can't be done, doesn't exist' .
So, Commissioner, when you take a stand here, please do not start by saying it 'can't be done' .
Start by saying, 'how can I accommodate Parliament?' and then make it legally and technically possible.
I think the committee is right to spread the risk by making shipowners and charterers, as well as oil companies, bear their share of the risk, by apportioning responsibility on an equitable basis and by including local representatives of the regions affected in a fund committee, so that their interests can be represented.
And representing interests does not mean taking their own decisions; it means being included and being heard on a case by case basis.
That is why, as I said last time, we should up the ante now because people, because the Erika - damn it all, this accident occurred over two years ago and we have still not passed any legislation and everything still hangs in the balance.
That is why I call on my fellow Members and the Commission to up the ante now.
I think it makes sense to make a start on maritime safety by setting up an agency.
I understand why Emmanouil Mastorakis thinks that Piraeus would be a good place for the agency but may I say that I think that Lübeck, where I come from, would also make an excellent base for such an agency.
(heckling: or Greifswald, Rostock)
