Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for highlighting the situation faced by frontier workers in an own-initiative report from Parliament.
Many and varied are the situations and problems that we continue to encounter in the European internal market, one of the key aspects of which is the freedom of movement of frontier workers.
These are problems which cause the people to question the raison d' être of the European Union.
Being an MEP in a region bordering Luxembourg, Belgium and France I can identify with all the facets of these issues.
Why is a German pensioner, who is undergoing dialysis, only permitted to have access to this for a limited period of time when holidaying in France?
The mother of a family in Germany is immediately entitled to child benefit for her second child, but not if her husband works in Luxembourg.
Is it permissible for an aunt who is insured in Belgium to be cared for in a nursing home near her family in Germany?
Pension entitlements acquired in Italy are subject to enormous outlay before they reach the German pensioner.
And why should an honorary mayor working in Germany suddenly have to pay tax on his whole salary, which he earns in Luxembourg, because he receives an expenses allowance?
Luxembourg firms are fighting against additional expenditure and additional costs, and so jobs are at risk.
This is why people decline the office of mayor.
The list goes on.
Frontier workers must be flexible, so as to be able to cope with the confusion of laws on both sides of the borders.
Those who look for a job over the border within the European internal market need legal certainty in a united Europe, particularly in the sphere of social legislation.
We MEPs from the border regions in the European Union call upon the Commission and the Council, to provide for more cross-border social justice.
We have achieved a great deal, but there is still much to be done.
The report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten illustrates the legitimate demands of the people in the border regions.
The internal market must also be completed within the labour market if we want to make Europe an integrated whole.
