Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we need to constantly remind ourselves that the problems presented by PVC are unique.
There is no other product which is manufactured from chlorine and which produces such large quantities of additives with highly dubious environmental and health-related effects.
There are certainly alternatives.
What I find completely irresponsible is the panic-mongering about jobs.
As a legislator, our job is to ensure that the environment and public health are protected.
It really is not up to us to repeat industry's panic-inducing arguments about jobs.
We need to be clear that 96% of jobs in the PVC sector are in conversion.
This means that these manufacturers could just as easily use other materials.
After all, we know that the leading PVC manufacturers are just as capable of producing the alternatives.
That is why I do not think that we should be taken in by these mendacious arguments.
We need to remind ourselves of the risks.
The five Commission studies have made it clear that the problems are simply huge, in particular with waste incineration, which produces yet more hazardous waste.
Allow me also to comment on the argument that industry should have a system of self-regulation.
Industry has had decades to develop a strategy of self-regulation here.
In fact it has actually become clear that it only brought in self-regulation when it realised that we, in our capacity as legislator, finally intended to introduce a strategy to replace PVC.
In actual fact industry does not propose any alternatives either; for example it does not indicate any solution to the landfill problem and does not call into question incineration, which is so fraught with problems.
I find it nothing short of dishonest that it makes the percentage of waste recycled dependent on the amounts collected, but does not wish to take part in collecting the waste itself.
Surely this shows that this is complete rubbish, a smokescreen.
We should not be taken in by this.
Instead our responsibility must surely be to propose an alternative solution and not to genuflect to industry.
