Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive before us centres around the welfare of the animals.
I am delighted that we are reforming animal protection at European level.
It would, of course, have been better, in order to safeguard equal conditions of competition within the Community, if we were to issue regulations, which are directly applicable and valid in the Member States, rather than animal protection directives.
Animal welfare must form part of our basic ethical philosophy.
However, this philosophy should not stop short at the borders of the EU.
Similar demands must be introduced in the forthcoming WTO negotiations and this, Commissioner, is a leitmotiv running through this evening's debate.
We must be aware of the fact that high animal protection standards in the EU lead to higher production costs.
Our pig breeders then have to complete with imports from third countries which do not apply these animal protection standards and can therefore offer much lower prices.
That is the fact of the matter.
New animal protection standards also mean changes in farming systems.
Farming systems set up recently in accordance with the relevant legislative specifications are to be given a transitional period in which to adapt.
As far new investments in holdings are concerned, I agree with the proposal that the new specifications should be implemented by 2003.
With a binding, cross-border ban on the castration of pigs, pig breeders and the market could, in my view, adapt perfectly well to the resultant changes.
But we now call on the Commission to supplement the annex to the directive by 2002, so that male pigs are only castrated by people who have the knowledge and are qualified to do so.
Castration not performed correctly results in constant pain.
Account must be taken of specific details on holdings, such as the size of pens and how pregnant sows are kept.
In addition, account must be taken of the pigs' natural habits, so that the pigs can keep themselves constantly occupied with food and any other material in which to root.
One thing is for sure: whatever efforts we make to improve how pigs are kept, consumer trends will confirm whether or not we have been successful.
