Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Germany there is an old proverb which says that you have to suffer to be beautiful.
With the new cosmetics directive, however, precisely the opposite is true: beauty, hygiene and well-being without risk.
Three points are of particular importance to me: optimal consumer protection, a clear label and, as a general rule, the avoidance of animal testing.
Optimal care must be combined with a maximum degree of consumer protection.
We can only guarantee this optimal safety by having numerous scientific tests.
Scientists are busily researching new test methods which deliver reliable research results and at the same time avoid the need for animals to suffer.
It is our declared objective to bring to an end the era of animal testing.
We need to support all scientific moves towards achieving this.
In the future there must be no tests on animals for products and their constituents which have already been investigated once and for which reliable results are available.
Nevertheless, consumer protection and product safety are our prime concern.
That is why in exceptional cases, where there is no alternative, we need to allow animal testing until further notice, above all when the optimal protection of infants, children, the sick and older people is at stake, including with respect to shampoos and creams.
That is why we have to permit the Member States to allow animal testing for cosmetics for two years longer than is currently laid down, provided that there is no alternative.
In certain cases it is quite simply necessary to carry out tests on animals, in particular where acute skin and eye intolerances are concerned.
It is also important for consumers to know which products can cause allergies.
It would be detrimental to the market and discriminatory, however, to label all the cosmetic fragrances listed in Annex 2 for this reason.
That is why the only products which should carry warnings are those which have also been previously identified as allergens by the Scientific Committee.
It is very important for consumer safety that there should be a clear, visible indication of the maximum and minimum durability of the product after opening.
The product label should also provide consumers with clear and easily understandable information about the correct way to administer the product.
This is about consumer protection and safety with a minimum of animal testing while encouraging the use of alternative methods.
