Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am glad that I was able to listen to the last debate because, as you perhaps know, Mr President, I have always taken an interest in institutional matters and I was astounded to learn that the length of a pig's tail is a comitology issue.
In this respect, I am that much wiser now and wished to thank you for that.
(Laughter, heckling: cynic!)
Allow me to get to the point, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf!
The European Parliament is prepared to provide exceptional assistance to Kosovo as quickly as possible, which is why we accepted the request for urgent procedure this week.
We want to make our contribution as quickly as possible; we do not want to throw up any obstacles which prevent peace from being restored in this region.
But, my dear Commissioner, please take our request seriously; after all the cooperation in this procedure, this will only happen in the long run if we are given the information we need to carry out our parliamentary control function properly, safeguard coherence with other programmes, such as CARDS, and apply a uniform procedure here, in cooperation with UNMIK.
Because we have to understand that one of the main problems in this region is due to the fact that numerous groups are trying - with a great deal of commitment - to provide help, but with very little coordination.
It is an age-old problem which Parliament deplores and which the Commission itself deplores.
That is why, despite all this commitment, many of them are still failing to achieve the positive results which we consider necessary.
Because, if too little progress has been made in Kosovo so far, this also has to do with the fact that Macedonia is being destabilised from within Kosovo, with all that this implies.
Commissioner, we also think that a correlation needs to be established with other donors and how much rapid financial assistance they are willing to provide.
We expressly adopted a proposed amendment in committee which does not attach any conditions to services by other donors, but the correlation needs to be established, so that the European Union is not left standing alone in the front row here and other donors honour their promises accordingly.
The point of this programme is to build up a reasonable administration, to build up a reasonable infrastructure and to build up reasonable, self-perpetuating economic growth, thereby creating the conditions needed to bring about lasting stability and peaceful coexistence between people and ethnic groups.
That is why we look on this assistance as an offer to the people there.
But now the people must show willing and understand that the circle of violence has to be broken.
As Mr Lechner and I specifically discussed today, this political correlation needs to be clearly discussed here.
That is why, Commissioner, I should like once again to stress that we do not want to be a hindrance when it comes to approving funds quickly and that we need to make a joint effort to ensure that these funds are used sensibly and are not wasted and that urgent objectives are in fact achieved.
