Mr President, Commissioner, the free movement of workers - a cornerstone of the Treaties of Rome, and the most important of the four fundamental freedoms in our internal market - can only operate effectively if the employment services also do not end at national borders.
This is the role of EURES, a network which is intended to provide information, advice and employment services across national borders.
We agree with all the key points contained in Mr Ribeiro e Castro's report.
I should also like to take this opportunity to thank the rapporteur for his competent work.
In particular, we share his critical views - which he has just repeated during this debate - under Recital A, which sets out a clear set of conditions for the Commission as regards the provision of objective reasons and statistical information.
This will also make our job easier.
However, the report - like so many others - succumbs to a common temptation: it adds a lengthy list of new demands for future improvements to those already put forward by the Commission.
In my view, the repetition of what is self-evident, and this House's often over-zealous efforts to list every conceivable demand, simply detract from the impact of a report and the credibility of our joint endeavours.
I often have the impression that if the Commission puts forward five demands, for example, this House feels compelled to add at least another five.
I cannot support this approach.
What is important is not the number of demands we put forward in a specific case but their practical implementation.
I think it is excessive, for example, to devise and implement permanent information systems, in particular within youth organisations, universities and the media, as demanded in Article 15 of the report.
I think this is something which we can safely leave to the EURES units at local level, in line with the principle of subsidiarity.
I also have great reservations about the creation of additional operational units, as set forth in Article 16, because they lack substance and are often used as a fig leaf in order to conceal the failures of existing bodies.
The growing importance of EURES' role in the light of the forthcoming EU enlargement must be clearly underlined, as in this report.
Sound career advice and employment services can undoubtedly help to channel potential widespread interest in migration.
Nonetheless, the goal of further integration of the labour market within the Fifteen must not slip into the background.
What is absolutely essential is the restructuring of EURES' finances and the reform of its legal basis, as demanded in Article 27.
This is borne out by the problems at local level and the enquiries directed to us as parliamentarians.
As the representation of citizens at local level, Parliament must be given a key role in this area.
