Mr President, Mr Queiró and Mr Friedrich have given Hungary ten out of ten for accession efforts on behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
Hungary was the first country to raise the Iron Curtain and to start intensive preparations for full membership.
Today, thank God, fear of enlargement is clearly beginning to recede.
We could see in Burgenland, which borders on Hungary, that the Euro-sceptics did not stand a chance and were losing more and more ground.
The same applies in Austria and Germany with regard to the Czech Republic and Poland, although here the problems are patently worse.
But I think that this is a positive development and that this development is thanks to Hungary's policy of settling its minority problems, which it has done in an exemplary fashion, and of taking a clearly pro-European stance across the political divide.
I should like, first and foremost, to call on the Czech Republic, for which I also have a soft spot and which I hope, like Hungary, will be one of the first wave of candidate countries, to follow Hungary's example and resolve its minority problems, discard its historical baggage and, at the same time, find a consensus between the political parties on the question of political integration.
I think this is paramount.
I am positive that the so-called candidate countries - not an expression I particularly like - will not become the ballast of European unification; it is precisely Hungary, the Czech Republic and others which can become the driving force behind European integration.
The same applies to Slovakia, although it has internal political problems.
But if it resolves them, I think that Slovakia, together with Hungary, the Czech Republic and Poland, will become the countries to drive European integration forward.
We should therefore take a less anxious view of this project, which we should not call enlargement to the east but, to quote Pope John Paul II, the "Europeanisation of Europe".
Because a European Union without Hungary or the Czech Republic is no European Union!
