Mr President, my Group backs the rapporteur, who has clearly illustrated that the convergence and stability programmes are extremely valuable when it comes to forging real economic policy in the European Union in general and the euro zone in particular which is a matter of common interest.
We see the outlines of economic policy on the one hand, but we see the stability and convergence programmes on the other.
I should also like to remind the House in this context that the Stability and Growth Pact has predominantly been geared in the past towards achieving stability.
It did, however, always include growth factors.
From this point of view, the rapporteur' s approach is the right one, indicating as it does that it makes sense to use investments, both private and public, in order to achieve a real knowledge-based society of the future in the European Union.
If these public-sector investments are used for the benefit of information technologies, other new technologies and a better, modernised infrastructure in the euro zone and the European Union, then this is the right way forward.
From this point of view it is also very important that we restart the debate on the quality of public finances.
Luckily, the Commission has presented a paper here which will need to play an important part in future discussions in connection with stability and convergence programmes.
Because we must ensure when evaluating the state of public finances, which is also our job, when analysing the content of the convergence and stability programmes, that we identify the right trend, that we identify the right development, but that we do not lose sight during our discussions of the possibility of steering in the opposite direction.
Mr von Wogau, you referred to possible dangers.
You pointed out that advice in the Bible on lean and fat years should still be seen as relevant by financial policy-makers in the European Union.
Any analysis of public finances, however, must also consider what impact expenditure may have on monetary policy.
We therefore need to work with sound public finances in the euro zone because a poor financial situation could jeopardise monetary stability.
Windfalls have not been spent on consumption as in past years; they have also been used to reduce debt and for investments.
We must also consider how this sort of economic policy coordination can be used to guarantee social and employment policy as well as monetary stability.
Here too there is both an obligation and a challenge for the countries in the euro zone, the pre-ins and future candidate countries alike.
