Mr President, we have certainly had a packed agenda today.
We have had research from Mr Caudron, we have voted on Mr Jarzembowski's report on port services and we have had shipbuilding courtesy of Mrs Riis-Jørgensen, but looking up at the people in the galleries I have to say that these may all have been important issues for the economy or for society, but in many cases it will have been nothing but gobbledegook to our listeners.
This issue is different.
Last summer in Austria I, myself, unintentionally parked illegally and felt dreadfully guilty.
However, my bad conscience about this parking offence was very quickly eclipsed by concern about how much it would cost me to transfer the 200 Austrian schillings for this parking ticket from Germany to Austria.
I therefore went straight to the Austrian authorities and paid in cash because I was afraid that the bank charges might be more than the actual fine.
This is an experience familiar to many people.
What is decisive, and this is something which we should also always bear in mind in this House, is how Europe measures up when people encounter it in their everyday lives, and in many of the areas on which we are working it proves to be far from perfect.
On 1 January we will get the euro.
There is a German word, 'begreifen', which means to understand, but which incorporates a notion of grasping or touching.
The public will be able to touch the euro and that is why confidence in the euro will grow from that moment on.
However, we must also make sure that all of the appropriate arrangements are in place so that the public are able to treat payments within Europe in the same way as payments within their own countries.
That is why this regulation is incredibly important, and I very much regret the fact that the idea of it has only just occurred to the Commission.
I drafted an opinion once before, nine months ago.
At that time I was still being told by the Commission that there were steep mountain tracks between the banks, and I said that if money could be made with mountain tracks it would be.
If money can be made with motorways then it will be.
We need motorways in the banking sector too.
