Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I regard the proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a common classification of Territorial Units for Statistics, NUTS, as being sensible and clear in terms of both statistics and administration.
However, we must ensure that any amendment to the classification also requires the prior approval of the Member States.
We must also ensure that the definition of employment market regions under the 'shared-task' mechanism can also deviate from NUTS level III in future.
The two-year period provided for between an amendment to NUTS being accepted and coming into force should either be significantly reduced or else totally dropped, as Commission financial support for the Member States can depend on the regional structure.
Otherwise, I am completely satisfied with the Commission proposal, and would in fact be happier without the rapporteur's amendments that were adopted by a majority of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Although I said 'by a majority' , they were in fact adopted unanimously with one abstention, and that abstention was mine.
I voted against certain amendments in committee.
This was because the report repeatedly referred to the adoption of additional criteria for the definition of regions as an objective.
I regard that as a problem, as taking account of, say, economic, geographical and social criteria in the case of non-administrative units will lead to a blurring of these clear criteria.
I believe that a key criterion for the definition of regions should be the number of people living in a region, as in the final analysis they are affected by any decisions regarding the NUTS classification.
When the rapporteur says in one recital that there should be at least three hierarchical levels, the use of that little phrase 'at least' implies that further levels ought to be created for classifying territorial units.
However, it needs to be borne in mind that the introduction of new statistics for the areas affected would involve a significant additional administrative burden, something that I believe should if anything be limited.
