Mr President, on behalf of my Committee, I would like to emphasise one point, namely the PRINCE programme.
We see it as very important that the information campaign on the euro should be carried on for another half-year, for we find an information deficit here despite great campaigning efforts.
It is particularly marked among small and medium-sized enterprises, and this programme is intended to make good this deficit.
As permanent rapporteur for the agencies, I can say at the present time that the most acute problems have been resolved with the help not only of our colleagues in the Committee on Budgets, but also that of the general rapporteur.
We decided, on the basis of the facts, to consider the agencies individually.
I would therefore like to take this opportunity to say a few things for future reference.
The agencies carry on growing, as they have done for years.
Everyone who works in one seems to have a vested interest in the agencies' expansion.
To give an example, between 1995 and 2001, the personnel complement of the agencies increased by 366%.
We are creating another 99 posts this year alone.
I get the impression that many of the European agencies maintain to some degree a separate existence.
In the Budget procedure, we always have to deal with one demand - they say they need more money.
The consequences of this development are clear to see.
The agencies take up all the scope for other programmes, and at some point the Community ends up having to pay the pension costs as well.
We must make changes here.
No longer must the Budget be adapted to the programmes decided on by the Management Board, but the programmes must fit the resources provided by the Budget.
We need a working audit of the agencies, involving all the actors concerned on a permanent basis.
In other words, Parliament's specialised committees must likewise carry out an evaluation.
We urgently need to examine the question of whether the services provided by the agencies are actually needed and then put to good use.
The Budgetary Control Committee, the Court of Auditors and all the other actors must be involved in helping us get a grip on the whole thing.
Over the coming weeks, I will be attempting to create a structure for this purpose, one which can be put to use in the next Budget procedure.
