Mr President, the report of the Court of Auditors is always rather like the starting pistol for the discharge procedure, which we then hope to conclude in the April of the following year, although we do not always succeed.
Now that we have been working off the inherited liabilities for several years, something that has consistently attracted media attention, it now seems to me that we are tackling more systemic problems where it is not so much spectacular individual cases that are at stake, but rather whether systems are flawed in some way.
I would like to address once again three points that arose most often in the debate.
The first one is the high level of unimplemented appropriations.
In the course of the discharge procedure, we will have to ask ourselves whether this is attributable to the caution officials exercise before they will sign something off and spend money, or whether it is to do with overcomplicated rules.
For example, given the many complaints I hear from my constituents and others about all the red tape you have to cope with in dealing with Brussels if you want to get support for something, I fear that I know the answer already.
Although I am willing to accept it if this is clearly refuted, this is still an issue we need to sort out.
The second point is the statement of assurance, which has just been mentioned, and Mr Bösch has pointed out the dilemma we face.
We need to ask ourselves if there are more reliable instruments or if we are treating this statement of assurance in the same way that the Council does year after year, that is as a kind of weather report that is not binding in any way.
My final point is this: we need to establish whether the Member States' handling of EU money has got worse or whether it is just being scrutinised more carefully now.
If the latter is the case, that would represent some progress and the Commission could be given some credit for that.
But it is the Commission's job to step up pressure on the Member States, and we will be glad to help out.
