Mr President, Council, Commission and Parliament at last agree on something.
The promotion of SMEs contributes to greater investment and innovation, and to the creation of new philosophies of enterprise.
A multiannual programme was started to benefit an initiative towards growth and employment.
Parliament approved a budget of EUR 450 million.
SMEs are an engine for jobs in Europe.
Seventy per cent of all workers are employed by them, and over 80% of all apprentices trained by them.
In order to give them a better chance in the market, however, more financial and fiscal burdens have to be taken off their backs.
They need improved access to risk capital.
The European Investment Bank should apply its funds not only to the knowledge-based enterprises in the multimedia and biotechnology sectors, but also to cutting-edge technologies in the environmental and energy sectors and to innovative service-providers in craftsmanship, trade and tourism.
Interest-rate subsidies paid out amount to over EUR 93 million rather than the EUR 100 million that had been envisaged, yet, all the same, 54 000 new jobs were created where 33 000 had been expected.
If that is not a success...
The excellent report that Mr Bushill-Matthews has produced meets with full support from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and my committee was unanimously in favour of it.
I echo his criticism that the report reached the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs far too late.
Obviously there were too many services dealing with it.
Parliament can, though, only take responsibility and perform its supervisory function if information is available in good time.
Future reports will have to concentrate on aspects that make effective analysis possible.
What about the quality of jobs in innovative fields?
How is sustainability ensured?
How many women - who, at the end of the day, are a significant element in the European employment strategy - are involved?
The Commission's report is encouraging, this criticism notwithstanding, providing, as it does, evidence that it is worth investing in these forward-looking sectors, and that is entirely in the employees' interest.
