Mr President, Mr Carnero, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, am glad that the history of this legal contradiction will, it is to be hoped, come to its end for the time being when we adopt Mr Carnero's report tomorrow.
Thank you very much, Mr Carnero, for the good work you have done, and, also, for finding your way through this apparently very technical material and bringing out the political dimension to the decision we are to take.
In political terms, of course, it is a matter of some significance whether the chairpersons of the joint parliamentary committees and of the interparliamentary delegations are appointed en bloc by this, albeit rather thinned-out, House or whether every single candidate in every single joint parliamentary committee or every single interparliamentary delegation has to be elected or appointed as an individual.
It is, of course, clear that the Rules of Procedure have to provide for a process ensuring political balance in the composition of the delegations and the joint parliamentary committees.
It is likewise clear that the results of that process also have to be implemented and that this, too, can be safeguarded by the Rules of Procedure.
It is also evident, on the other hand, that these important decisions about personnel cannot be completely removed from the plenary.
We must, then, be clear in our own minds that the joint committees and interparliamentary delegations perform duties of a distinctly sensitive nature with respect to our partner countries, and also that the appointment of certain persons to chair these committees can become a political issue, may be seen as discourteous or even taken to be provocative.
It must therefore be possible for this plenary to retain control over who is actually appointed to the offices in question.
We cannot, then, have the situation in which Parliament gives, as it were, carte blanche for the appointment to specific positions, only for the individual groups, or even national delegations within them, to decide at the end of the day who is to be appointed.
Parliament must hold on to its supremacy in this respect.
I believe this also means that it must be ensured that, when we reassemble in January, we at least know the names of the people involved before proceeding to the ballot.
This was not in fact the case at the start of this Parliamentary term.
In the medium term, though, I think we must consider handing over the responsibility to the joint committees and delegations.
That is where the Members sit who know the relationships with the partner countries and their sensitive aspects.
In the long term too, they should also bear responsibility for deciding who should preside over them.
