Mr President, Commissioner, we did not need the Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy to tell us about the serious problems facing fisheries in Europe.
The Green Paper has merely made clear once again how serious they are.
Our Committee is earnestly discussing the various approaches to solving the problems.
We know we shall not be able to make all the difficulties simply disappear by waving a magic wand.
If somebody really wants to pull the wool over our eyes about it, we must call it what it is, namely eyewash.
The common fisheries policy as it has existed up until now has not succeeded in preventing the crises affecting a number of fish stocks or in reducing overcapacities in fleets.
Whether we will all survive economically depends on the Union' s future ability to shape a fisheries policy in the new century.
The Commission is now proposing extending the current multi-annual guidance programme for one year.
In the light of the ongoing debate on reform, I think we also need such measures for the sake of continuity.
We cannot of course solve the problems in this short space of time, but perhaps we can alleviate them a little.
The crucial thing is that the programme should be properly carried out.
We need data, but some Member States fail to provide that data or their data is incomplete.
We therefore need a system of penalties to ensure the data is supplied at all, and we need comparable criteria and categories.
Every shipowner wants to increase efficiency.
But we must not shift the premises.
We want better safety at sea.
That is a central part of the European Parliament' s demands.
But at the same time we should be careful to avoid negative effects on safety, even dressed up as increased efficiency.
The proposed change to structural measures also misses the target at the present time.
Making the achievement of objectives in all segments of the fleet a precondition for public subsidies is counterproductive because it penalises everyone for the failings of a few.
Our policy will only find acceptance among fishermen if the conditions are fair.
