Madam President, at last spring' s Lisbon Summit the Heads of State and Government set themselves an ambitious target.
The European Union was to become the most dynamic and the most competitive economic area in the world.
Innovation is the key to this.
It is the subject of an excellent report by Mr Rübig, whom I would expressly like to congratulate on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
His report is thorough and precise; it is creative and full of insights.
Only an innovation offensive will create the necessary conditions for making up the ground we have lost to the USA and Japan, preventing a mass exodus of researchers and finally achieving international competitiveness.
Specifically, it means changing our systems of education.
Young people must be able to be involved at an early stage, by teaching them science in schools and specifically encouraging their talents.
Curricula must include projects modelled on professional management, by forming junior enterprises, for example.
We need new information systems and higher technological qualifications in the training and further training of workers and students.
Mr Rübig has always been concerned with revitalising small and medium-sized enterprises.
His particular concern is important given that we have 18 million SMEs.
Workers are specifically asking for programmes to promote SMEs in the European Union because over 70 to 80 % work in that sector.
SMEs need simpler tax procedures, a dismantling of bureaucratic hurdles, and active support for innovative products and methods of production.
Research needs to be integrated into operating structures.
Access to start-up capital is essential, because young people need to be able to start new businesses, to become entrepreneurs.
They need to be able to take all the current problems of the new economy into account.
I hope we have all learned something from that.
On this basis, Madam President, the European Union will be able to make a sustained contribution to the high performance, knowledge-driven economy we are looking to achieve.
