Mr President, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Ghilardotti, firstly because she showed a great deal of flexibility in meetings of the Committee, including taking on board a series of proposals by the European People's Party, and secondly because this has meant that her very good report on the Common Position on the framework directive for minimum standards in national employee information and consultation points in the right direction.
As with the directive on European works councils, the issue is not codetermination, but information and consultation on important economic, financial and employment policy developments in business.
Restructuring cannot and should not be hindered, but it must no longer take place in the form of a commando raid, as so often happens - witness Renault's shock at Vilvoorde - but only following prior notification of the employees concerned.
There are, though, many parallels with the works councils directive in other respects.
The regulations on European works councils apply only to mergers of businesses across national boundaries, but restructuring often takes place at a national level.
The European People's Party favours flexibility.
For example, management and labour in a business can, through agreements, arrive at a special made-to-measure arrangement on information and consultation for that business.
That is subsidiarity.
The Common Position says rightly that agreements should be able to be more, or even less, favourable than the minimum standard.
Yet, the rights of local works councils may not be jeopardised under national law.
Article 1 prescribes that the procedure should be carried on in a spirit of cooperation.
This means partnership.
Partnership aims on the one hand at the clear representation of interests, and on the other hand at their conciliation in shared dialogue through information and consultation.
There is no doubt that this is economically advantageous.
Inadequate information results in insecurity, mistrust, and finally only fear, ending in blockade.
Timely information means transparency that creates trust and avoids businesses making friction losses.
Both workers and employers are winners, and in the same way.
