Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to heartily congratulate Mr Langen and will limit myself to just one aspect of a special public provision situation, that is, the cultural dimension in the audio-visual field, in other words public television and radio.
I was in favour of the introduction of private-sector television from the very outset, as I still am, whilst being convinced, in the final analysis, that we must work on the assumption that a public-service broadcasting remit is necessary.
Two particular aspects must be highlighted here: on the one hand the obligation to provide a service to all, that is, overall popular provision under appropriate conditions, and on the other the obligation to reflect the pluralistic nature of our society.
The dual broadcasting system has proved itself.
There would be no sense in constantly requiring the public broadcasters to justify every single programme.
A balanced programme needs leeway.
What is also certain is that we cannot allow taxes and licence fees to finance the creation of a public-service copy of the private-sector service providers.
The public media need leeway, but also clarification of their role and standards for fulfilling it.
It is in this respect that the communication from the Commission is particularly to be welcomed.
It also needs to be made clear, however, that, in the case of services with social welfare in mind, the type of transmission - be it terrestrial or videostreaming - cannot be crucial.
What matters are the objectives to be safeguarded, our democratic foundational principles, pluralism and free access to culture and to technological progress.
We must of course guarantee the protection of the users, especially of the young.
In terms of competition law, the Commission, as guardian of the Treaties, must restrict itself to watching out for misuse.
It must continue to respect and defend the competence of Member States as regards the content of programmes.
Regulatory authority must then remain with the Member States, and it is therefore incumbent on them too to determine financial and organisational structures.
I welcome the fact the Commission and the Council are endeavouring to come to an arrangement with the Member States about this.
