Mr President, I, too, would like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur very warmly on his report.
My colleague Mr Skinner has already indicated that our group will be able to withdraw most of our amendments if we can get clarification on one point that is very important for us and which is also concerned with consumer protection - and the rapporteur has already indicated a willingness to accommodate.
I am also willing to accept that members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who have a responsibility for financial services in particular, naturally have a slightly different focus than so many members of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
As a lawyer specialising in European law I do still often consult the EU Treaties.
Perhaps we should no longer do that so often.
Because when I turn to Article 50, which is about services that have not been harmonised, I read something about a market location principle, not a country-of-origin principle.
We are all aware that these provisions are creating a lot of problems today.
That is why Mr Harbour, on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, has introduced the proposal to amend the Treaty.
If we are lucky, we will be able to do that by 2006 at the earliest.
But until then we shall have to come up with something to cope with this problem.
I think we have found the e-commerce directive to be very well balanced in its conception.
I was myself shadow rapporteur for my group at the time and I hold fast to the belief that by combining harmonisation, country-of-origin principle and a few exceptions, we have found a very well balanced solution that we should probably try to use in other areas, too.
I am not a believer in magic formulas or cure-alls.
We are now at last getting the Council' s Common Position on the distance marketing of financial services.
We shall all have to put our thinking caps on to find a sensible solution for dealing with the problems that the Member States have also seen.
I think we will make it easier for ourselves if we go for pragmatic legislation rather than fight over principles and stay high and dry.
