Mr President, I should like to begin by congratulating the East Timorese people on the conduct of the peaceful and democratic elections for the Constituent Assembly on 30 August.
I am particularly honoured to be able to speak about East Timor today as I was the Chief Observer of the European Union Election Observation Mission in the country between 23 August and 11 September, and was able to see for myself just how important these elections were for the people of East Timor.
Before I turn to substantive issues, however, I would first like to congratulate UNTAET and especially Sergio Vieira de Mello on their work, which was often carried out under very difficult conditions.
I would also like to pay tribute to the work of the Independent Electoral Commission, the European Commission both here and in East Timor, and the smooth cooperation with UNDP, the Embassy of Portugal, and the Belgian EU Presidency.
East Timor has taken the first step towards independence and the founding of a separate state.
What is especially important now is the continued support of the international community and the European Union, for the country faces enormous challenges.
It is therefore essential that the UN peacekeeping units and civilian police remain in the country until East Timor is able to take over these security tasks itself.
The EU Member States must lobby hard for this with the United Nations.
It is important for the European Union and the United Nations, as well as other donor countries such as Portugal and Germany, to continue their technical and financial assistance, for the Commission and the Council to take a positive stance on East Timor's application for accession to the ACP - the "Everything But Arms" Initiative, for example, could take effect immediately - and for the EU to support the East Timorese government in developing a master plan for the country's development.
In this context, the EU should focus particularly on rural development and health.
The entire administrative sector must also be strengthened and, in some areas, built up from scratch.
However, it is education, above all, which will be the basis for and a key element of all the development projects - for one thing is clear: these democratic elections are an extremely important step for the country's future.
However, we must not forget that this is just the first step out of many which must be taken towards a functioning democracy and civil society.
For East Timor's further institutional development, it is also important for the EU to participate in the arrangements for the presidential elections and the necessary voter education.
There are many other examples, but one thing, above all, must not be allowed to happen: we must not withdraw from responsibility now that the foundation stone for an independent state has been laid and abandon the people who are only gradually beginning to recover from the trauma of the dreadful events of 1999.
Instead, let us be prepared for the fact that our support will continue to be needed for many more years.
As a key factor in this context, the assistance must be coordinated efficiently if it is to achieve its objective.
After my many discussions in the country itself, I am certain that the East Timorese people are aware of the problems facing their country and understand only too well how difficult the way ahead will be.
Let us work together with the East Timorese people as equal partners.
We will also be sending out a positive signal to the international community - that it is possible to resolve problems peacefully and initiate development, especially at the present time.
