Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group supports the line taken by the rapporteur, as indeed it did at first reading and also in the discussions and votes in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
The most contentious points, namely environmental noise around airports and also military airbases, are no longer on the table at this reading.
The Joint Statement lags behind the precise formulations of the Commission's proposal, but a long way behind Parliament's requirements for the European noise abatement policy.
For example, the Joint Statement has deleted all the fixed dates indicating the deadlines from which the noise maps have to be worked out and approved.
The same applies to the action plans.
My group therefore considers that all amendments which reintroduce these precise dates should be agreed and accepted as a matter of urgency.
Information is another point.
Amendment No 22 says that the Member States must ensure that the noise maps and action plans are posted on the Internet two months at the latest after being approved.
We think this is very important.
I believe that we can have general debates about how we bring Europe and its citizens closer together if we do not then shy away from very definite political proposals for putting information policy into action.
It is my view - one shared with both the speakers who preceded me - that the key question is whether any request by us for subsidiary directives will be successful.
I consider it to be progress in itself that there are harmonised methods of noise measurement and common noise indicators.
Such things can, though, be only the beginning.
What are we to say to people if we point out the problem but take no definite steps to solve it?
I believe that a time limit is needed here.
We cannot wait indefinitely for the next steps in this field to be taken.
It is for this reason that my group has joined with the Greens in signing the request for such subsidiary directives to be presented within three years.
