, draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
Mr President, I would like to express my thanks to the rapporteur, and also my gratitude for the debate he has stimulated.
He has really tried to make a reality of the wide-ranging citizens' debate of which he speaks.
He has tried to involve many people, within and outside Parliament, and in research circles, in order to have an intelligent discussion here and prepare a good compromise.
From the point of view of the Committee on Budgets, I must say, I support the rapporteur, but I am being pulled in two directions, because I at the same time have to announce that my group has misgivings and will not vote in favour of this resolution in its entirety.
I am here, then, primarily playing my role as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Budgets.
It has to be said on this point that the budget for this Sixth Research Framework Programme ranges between the right limits.
A slight increase was achieved, but at the same time the allocation was not exceeded, in other words the programme is, in budgetary terms, within proper and sensible limits.
I think we can achieve real European added value with this proposal.
We also had discussions with the Commission about possible simplification of the procedure, that also being one of our Committee's concerns, so that approval might be granted more quickly.
The Commission has made good proposals on this point, and we are very confident that this speeding-up of procedures can be achieved in order that the partners in projects can access their funds more quickly.
At the same time, our side urged once more that proper account should be taken of the smaller project partners and that smaller projects should not fall by the wayside in a slimmed-down procedure, because it is in the sphere of the smaller projects that a lot of important work has been done.
There is one bitter pill for our group above all others to swallow, and that is the issue of renewable energies and the issue of the Euratom resources.
Speaking from my group's point of view, I have to say that we have problems with the fact that renewable energies have not been developed as they should have been, and that too much has been approved, especially in the fusion field.
