Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Lynne, ladies and gentlemen, it is a happy coincidence that this week, just a few metres away from the Chamber, we can see an exhibition organised by Bernd Posselt entitled, 'chain of understanding'.
It shows hands, helping hands, joining hands, hands expending energy, and this exhibition is devoted to disabled people and includes work done by disabled people.
At this point I should therefore like to thank all of those who give time, patience, energy and love and make sacrifices for those who need their help.
This includes the families of disabled people, but many more besides.
We should not leave them out in the Year of Disabled People.
My second point is that I am glad that 2003 is to be the Year of Disabled People, particularly now, because for me it also shows that the Stability and Growth Pact and an aggressive disability policy are not only not contradictory, but also not mutually exclusive, if we are serious about the European social model, defending the dignity of all human beings and ensuring respect for human rights, which are principles to which we feel committed.
We still have much to do, however.
We need more equality in everyday life.
This involves firstly actually implementing all of the constitutional provisions.
We need to move from principle to practice.
Secondly, we need more comprehensive integration.
Integration must not end at the school gates, but must also encompass working life and social life.
Thirdly, we need disabled people to have the right to receive support to live the life of their own choosing.
Disabled people must be able to decide for themselves how they wish to live their lives.
Fourthly, we have to change the images we have, such as the image of a disabled person doing handicrafts.
Here, PCs, the Internet and integration using the new media could be very helpful.
With this in mind, we are looking forward to the Year of Disabled People, because we hope that it will sharpen the focus of our work and that we will be able to take further initiatives to eliminate the injustices and barriers which exist in our society.
