Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, today is the day for saying some very, very warm words of thanks to our President, Nicole Fontaine, who is from our group, for discharging her duties over the last two and a half years - as she herself has just said - with such passion.
Madam President, you are one of a distinguished line which includes Louise Weiss and Simone Veil.
Louise Weiss, Simone Veil and Nicole Fontaine: these are three great Presidents of our European Parliament.
Today we ask ourselves the following question: what were the outstanding qualities of your Presidency?
The first is that you have always put the concept of the Community, action by the European institutions, at the centre of your policy, and indeed you continue to do so; this means first and foremost the European Parliament, which you - and this is my second comment - have consistently represented with great dignity, both in public and at the summits.
The fact that the Laeken photograph shows you between the King of Belgium and the President of the French Republic is testimony to your powers of persuasion.
Thirdly - and here you were an example amongst so few - you spoke out against any form of terrorism, obviously in particular against the terrorism in Spain, but also throughout the world.
Extending an invitation to Commander Massoud was one of your great decisions and in so doing you, as it were, anticipated subsequent events in Afghanistan.
That is why we have every reason to thank you so warmly today!
You were of course always a full Member of our group, even as President, but now, when you stand down as President in January, you will be coming back into the fold of our group and you will then take your seat alongside another former President of the European Parliament - whom we hold in equally high esteem - José María Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado.
We will be delighted to have you, as well as Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado, working alongside us on a day-to-day basis.
We welcome you very warmly back into our group and we thank you most sincerely for your convincing work, our dear President, Nicole Fontaine.
