Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I have the honour to speak for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
I would like to start by thanking my colleagues in the Committee on Budgets for the fact that nearly all the amendments produced by this committee were adopted.
We have reinstated the substance of the budget estimates for regional and transport policy that you, Commissioner, proposed.
I really must appeal to the Council not to be such a two-faced split personality.
It is not tolerable for a great hullaballoo to have been made at the Göteborg Summit about our desire for a sustainable transport policy, only for the Council to cut resources in the area of sustainable mobility.
This sort of ambiguity cannot go on, and we hope that the Council will admit that.
If you want to have a rational, environmentally responsible transport policy, you cannot cut funds that are allocated for that purpose.
My main point, though, is to do with tourism, something which did not, unfortunately, meet with favour in the Committee on Budgets.
I would, though, just ask you to think again about it.
We proposed estimates for funds to promote tourism in Europe.
You all know about the debate over many years about the 'Philoxenia' programme to attract tourist from overseas, with its slogan 'tourists to Europe' .
This topic has taken on a whole new dimension since 11 September.
Not only are the airlines getting 20%-30% fewer customers, but so are hotels in Brussels, Berlin and in all European cities.
The same is true of restaurants, souvenir shops and boutiques.
We are seeing a massive slump in tourism, specifically from the USA and Canada.
This situation is leading to major difficulties in the economy and putting jobs at risk.
I put it to the Council and the Commission that, if we are to discuss the consequences of 11 September next month, we should re-examine the question of what we are to do to promote tourism in Europe.
