Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution which we are about to adopt includes a series of statements on measures needed on the part of the European Union, measures which clearly need to be implemented following this incident.
Mr Sylla pointed out that this is not a one-off incident and that problems such as this occur year in year out, which is why I do not intend to go through all these measures again on behalf of our group.
We know what the problem is and we have already voted in numerous resolutions on what needs to be done and what needs to be implemented, some of which is already being implemented.
I should like to address a different aspect, an aspect which I should like to link to your one minute's silence, Mr President.
We honour victims with one minute's silence.
These victims deserve not just the honour of our one minute's silence; they also deserve the following consideration: the people who turn to the criminal elements who take money from them to get them to what they see as paradise, are people with hopes.
They have hopes for a better life.
Generally, it should be said, they have hopes for a better life not for themselves but for their children.
They give everything away, all their worldly goods, their property and their hopes.
There is a German proverb which says, "Hope is the last to die".
The people in this container still hoped they would reach their destination until they drew their dying breath.
That brings me to another aspect of my thoughts on the subject.
The people who gamble on these hopes, the people who take money for these hopes, the corrupt border officials who allowed these people, who were from Kurdistan, to cross our external borders, the criminals who want to capitalise on people's desperation, have also earned one minute of the deepest contempt of which we as a civilised society are capable.
I should like to follow on from your one minute's silence by dedicating this contempt to their victims.
Their children should know that the perpetrators have the full contempt of the civilised world.
