Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs sincerely for their work.
Mr Lagendijk has already indicated that the situation in the Balkans today is quite different from that six months or a year ago, especially if we think of the elections in Kosovo and the settlement in Macedonia.
But that must not mislead us into saying everything has been done, the matter has been dealt with, we can just hang around and everything will turn out well.
I also think the step the Commission proposes is correct and justified.
But, Commissioner, we have already said, if it is really so and I believe it is, that there are serious differences between the work of the agency and the work of the delegations, and somewhere in between them, as a sort of happy medium, the decentralised delegations, then we must draw general conclusions from that, not because, in the one case, they are good people and, in the other, bad people.
It must surely also have something to do with the structure of the decision-making processes.
In this respect I am sure you will not be able to give us an answer today.
I want to ask you, however, one more thing, namely that, when restructuring the Commission' s work and policy in the Balkans; you will really use, to the full, the imagination that I am sure you, Commissioner, and many of your colleagues possess.
For my part, I believe that the agency, which is not only a reconstruction agency but already a development agency, ought to play a greater part over all.
I admit it can also be done jointly with delegations that are given additional tasks to do with decentralisation.
But I do think that early next year, at the start of next year, we ought to suggest what the Commission' s assistance, support and development structure for the Balkans should look like for the next ten years, for it will take, at least, ten years to achieve the take off we all want for the Balkans and that we need for peace and stability in Europe.
