Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, what are Europe's tasks in these times?
First, Europe must support the victim against the aggressor.
We hold to our treaty commitments.
We salute the firm and considered attitude of the United States government.
We also welcome the European Council's expression of solidarity with the USA.
All of you must make it your concern that Europe is not divided into doves and hawks!
Secondly, the European Union must play its part in forging a worldwide political alliance against terrorism.
We appreciate what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, with Mr Solana and Mr Patten, have undertaken not only in the Arab countries but also in Russia.
We ask that you continue your efforts as intermediaries in the Middle East, above all between Israel and the Palestinians.
They are in the best interests of us all.
Thirdly, we must, join together in reinforcing our internal security.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is regrettable that the European Council, and the Council of Interior and Justice Ministers as well, have only now got around to partially implementing plans that already existed and had been thoroughly worked out.
We expect action against terrorism, not reactions to terrorist attacks.
In doing this, Europe must continue to be an example of how to maintain the balance between the right to individual liberty and the security of all.
Fourthly, we want Europeans not to be distracted from their common commitment to a more just world order, in which law for all replaces force exerted by the few.
We are not making this effort for a more just world order solely out of a belief that we will thereby be depriving terrorism of its breeding ground.
On the contrary, we seek a more just world order because that reflects our values and our dignity as Europeans - a dignity we share with all the peoples of the earth!
Fifthly, if it is true to say that the world is no longer what it was before 11 September, then the European Union cannot stay as it is.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we welcome your intentions for Ghent and Laeken.
We hope they do not remain only as intentions but that what you have put before us will indeed become the opinion of the Fifteen and a basis for our further work.
Europe could be broken by the crisis now facing the world.
It could, though, equally, emerge stronger from it.
It is at this crossroads that you and all of us will be standing in Ghent and Laeken.
In this crisis, Europe can - and I would add - must show its citizens what the European Union is really worth.
By this yardstick you and all of us will be judged.
