Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I would like to say how grateful and obliged we are to the Commission and the Council for the excellent preparation of the WTO Ministerial Conference in Qatar.
Commissioner Lamy, you and your colleagues achieved something extraordinary in starting from an extremely difficult situation just before Doha and nonetheless, by the end of the meeting, getting all the subjects wanted by the European Union into the programme for the round beginning in 2002, this despite the usual, and largely unjustified, attacks by India and the Cairns Group countries on the European Union.
Essential elements of our pre-conference resolution were included.
Two weeks later, in Accra, I saw for myself the pride of Ghana's government representatives in pointing out that Africa had played an independent role this time, and this could, among other things, be attributed to good preparatory work by the European Union and in particular by Commissioner Lamy.
The developing countries, particularly Africa, are now and for the future fully involved in negotiations, and this was also one of our main demands.
The political declaration on TRIPS represents a respectable result for the African mediators, something that you have already mentioned this morning, Commissioner Lamy.
The demands of the developing countries and of the Africans - ranging from the need for comprehensive technical aid to the Cotonou Agreement's exceptions up to 2008 - have very largely been met.
The core European demands will, though, also be included in the new round of negotiations.
I do not need to go into the details again.
What is important is that we in the European Union can input our conceptions of a socially and environmentally responsible market economy into the system of free and fair world trade and that they can also, slowly, prevail.
I also believe, though, that there is still more that we can do to make the WTO more democratic.
Mr Lamy, you too have referred to the need for us to achieve the creation of a parliamentary assembly.
We in this Parliament should retain our leadership role and also ask the Commission to continue its financial support for us, so that we can especially involve the representatives of the African parliaments.
Let me return to a point made in this morning's debate.
One of our colleagues, Mrs Lucas, pointed out that the outcome was poor, indeed unacceptable.
I thought, here comes a European justification of European interests, but she only referred to India and certain NGOs, which...
(The President cut the speaker off)
