Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent work, which is just as we expected.
I think that this regulation and this legal basis will, with the measures that follow, help to improve food safety in the European Union, and will establish the general principles of the new food law.
With reference to general food law, I would like to mention, in particular, that this represents a real success in developing the principle of a seamless improvement in the food chain from farmer to consumer.
A key aspect of the principles set out here remains the traceability of products.
I believe that we have accordingly established two significant new principles and requirements for improving food safety.
The centrepiece of the regulation is the creation of the European Food Authority, or, as it is designated in the amendment, the 'European Food Safety Authority' .
I do not want to spend too much time on definitions here.
What I consider most important is the fact that the framework conditions have been created for this Authority.
The first of these is adequate financial provision.
It seems to me that this has not so far been achieved to the extent we might have wished, and the same applies to conditions governing communication between the Authority and the various authorities in the Member States.
Appropriate arrangements have not yet been set up in the Member States, and there is still a lot to be done in this regard.
As for the openness of the authority, I believe that this House's amendment is certainly correct, but we also have to guarantee that in certain circumstances the Authority can also meet behind closed doors.
An important issue, as many others have already said, is the location of the Authority, and if the Council rejects our proposals, it seems to me that it must intend to locate the Authority in such a way that our requirements and conditions cannot be met.
We cannot let such a situation prevail, nor can we accept it.
The Council must finally give in on this and select a location that will facilitate communication with the Commission, Parliament and the Member States.
