Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, as everything has been said, but not by me - as they say - I will make two or three points simply to underline what has been discussed by the previous speakers.
I belong to the minority who, at first reading, were not satisfied with Article 6 of the framework directive.
The compromise that has now been presented meets with my approval.
I think a balance has been achieved between the national regulators' shadowing of the market and the Commission's right of veto, in order to stimulate the progress of the internal market, of which we are all in favour, even my group.
This represents, in our view, very much another fragmentation of the market.
I want to say something general about the modus operandi itself.
Yes, we are dealing with a very fast-moving market and rapidly evolving technology, and we have tried to take that into account by acting relatively speedily.
I want, though, just to say another word of admonition.
Parliament - by which I mean, we - should not always deny ourselves our rights in the legislative process.
We realise that from time to time, when the worst comes to the worst, but I think it must remain an exception.
I would like to highlight another point.
Mrs Hieronymi made it very clear - and, as a member of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I can only underline what she said - that a unitary standard for digital television, and its interoperability, are issues not only for industry policy, but also for consumers.
I have promised consumers and the general public in my constituency that we would ensure that there was a standard that would enable them to receive on one TV set everything that they wanted to see and that they would not have to install several sets.
I believe we have to go a bit further down that road.
I would like to emphasise the very demand that Mrs Hieronymi made when she spoke just now.
Perhaps the Commission and the Council can leap a bit further over the shadow thrown by digital television and reach a compromise.
Then I, too, would find it easier to vote in favour of the package as a whole.
I will end my speech there and point out that I have stuck to the speaking time allotted to me.
