Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the team of Fischler, Lamy and Neyts most warmly for getting a new round of talks together.
It is, though - in my opinion, Mr Ettl - significant that people are talking to each other rather than looking for points of conflict.
I believe that this spurt of growth in Europe, especially in employment in Europe, is of enormous significance - but not only for Europe, for, particularly in the developing countries, millions of people will be able to cross the poverty line, something that represents a breakthrough for the poor in the developing countries as well.
I believe this is of especial significance for Europe, which is the world's greatest exporter of goods and services and the world's biggest investor.
Discussions covered many areas affecting the developing countries, the environment, social affairs and animal protection too, and I believe that efforts are being made to find consensus here as well.
We should not forget, though, that the WTO should also be concerning itself with the creation of fair general conditions for investment, competition and market access.
We must remove the administrative obstacles to trade and take reciprocity into account when opening up markets; we need maxima for customs duties and reliefs for SMEs and for products sent in small quantities.
Where trade works, so does democracy, and prosperity is the result.
I also take the view that the real, economic actors should be more deeply involved in the negotiations, and I believe it is right and proper that we should bring in EuroCommerce, Eurochambres, UEAPME and the SME-Union, so that they can join in discussions on this subject.
To tell the truth, conglomerates no longer see the WTO as the core issue - there is already a McDonald's in every city in the world.
I would like to end by asking another group to explain to us how they are going to handle the confidentiality of discussions between the Commission and Parliament in future.
I believe we need a solution to this in order to guarantee good, honest cooperation in the future.
