Mr President, Commissioner, pirate fleets - it is hard not to think of the Hollywood adventure films with piracy depicted as heroism and romance in equal measure or the exciting books one read as a child.
However, there is nothing heroic or romantic about the background to my thoughts on piracy now, as I speak to you here, and there is quite definitely nothing to get excited about.
On the contrary, all we have here is a destructive fisheries practice and flags of convenience.
We should not see these modern pirates who sail the seven seas as tough old characters with wooden legs and eye patches; no, these pirates operate on powerful trawlers, often owned by nationals of Member States of the EU.
So exactly what havoc do these ships and flags of convenience wreak?
This House has always battled for sustainable fisheries and tried to ensure that working conditions meet minimum standards.
The parlous state of fish stocks and the economic recession tell us that a great deal still needs to be done, and we are addressing these problems in our debate on the Green Paper.
However, regulations and stock management measures have to be complied with and this compliance can only be achieved with controls which actually work and effective sanctions - including political sanctions.
This is the huge attraction of flags of convenience to shipowners, because the countries which generously include them in their registers are not exactly known for their controls and sense of responsibility.
The consequences are catastrophic, to both fish and man.
Regional stock management measures are ignored, stocks which are already endangered are depleted without a second thought and conventions to protect employees are simply ignored.
But there is no point in lamenting what is an obvious situation any further, so my proposal is that we should keep trying to influence flag-of-convenience states and remind them of their international obligations.
Even in Europe we can and must act.
The port state controls adopted in the Erika I package must also be applied to pirate activities, and we must close our markets to the catches landed by these fleets.
