Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has become clear, particularly in these last weeks and months, that common action by the Member States of the European Union as the European Union brings added value for every one of the EU's members.
When I see, for example, that the troika not only made a very successful contribution to the creation of the coalition against terror in the Middle East but is also responsible for this happening at all, this is important evidence for the truth of this.
So I regret all the more that individual Member States have an ever-increasing tendency towards bilateralism.
For example, the troika was in Washington at the same time as the President of France, the German Foreign Minister, and the Prime Minister of Great Britain.
I do not find that the right way to go about presenting a clear picture of the European Union as a whole.
I also think that the meeting of the three Heads of Government in the run-up to the summit can only give rise to suspicions that we are moving towards an outcome managed from the top downwards.
All the European Union's Member States are basically equal.
The European Union can only exist as it does now in so far as competencies reside in the supranational institutions and the smaller countries do not feel that they are controlled by the larger ones.
We will get into serious difficulties if this principle is not accepted.
Let me raise another point.
As the Chairman of my group has already observed, there is the danger that, in the realm of internal security, good decisions by the Council will be ground down in the mills of national bureaucracies.
I would like to suggest that the Belgian Presidency, which has done such excellent work in the past few weeks, should take a look at the Treaty of Amsterdam and tell the Council that, if the Council of Ministers so decides, decisions on legal and home affairs policy may be reached by majority voting - a legal possibility provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam - so that we can come to the necessary decisions at a European level and can meet the challenge of combating terrorism, a phenomenon that knows no frontiers.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please permit me one more observation and a request.
I wish to put on the record my thanks to you that the Convention will be possible.
If possible, though, Laeken should be founded on a procedure that offers the possibility of the Convention coming up with a unitary proposal.
It must be a Convention which can serve as the basis for the consultation of Heads of State and Government.
There is still a lot of concern about it, and I ask you to bear that in mind.
