Madam President, the terrible pictures from New York exactly three weeks ago today have entered our souls to stay.
The speedy declarations of solidarity by Europe and the NATO allies have not been forgotten.
Now that the USA has demonstrated that it is not engaging in cowboy politics, but is giving very serious consideration to every step in the fight against the terrorists, we must not leave it to later to convey our thanks and appreciation across the Atlantic.
But what is being done in comparison?
Take us in Germany as an example: we find fault with the USA and make so bold as to set up rules of conduct.
We are already distancing ourselves from the USA, and an objectionable anti-Americanism occasionally puts in an appearance.
As a German European, I am ashamed of this, bearing in mind also that around 100 Germans were murdered in New York on 11 September.
I can understand why the USA, despite the announcement today that this is an issue for the Alliance as a whole, does not want, if possible, to involve its 19 NATO partners in the military counter-attack against the terrorists and their accomplices, with the exception of Great Britain.
You cannot fight and win a campaign with doubters - and I say that as an officer in the Parachute Reservists.
This is evidence of Europe's incapacity, all the more so as the wrecked twin towers in New York have their counterparts all over the EU.
Afghanistan may well be a target for the USA's counter-attack.
The inhabitants of this country battered over decades are leaving their homeland in droves, eking out an existence in refugee camps in Pakistan.
These people deserve the complete solidarity of the EU and of our Parliament.
Aid from the EU should be unbureaucratic and be given swiftly, bearing in mind that winter is very hard over there.
If we do not help now, it is to be feared that the many young refugees there will be easy prey for one fundamentalist or another.
The European Parliament should consider the advisability of sending a delegation of members of this Parliament's Committee on Development and Cooperation to Pakistan as soon as possible.
Impressions gained directly from experience are always better than voluminous reports.
