Mr President, Mrs Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market devoted a great deal of attention to market integration in connection with the eastward enlargement.
The effects that will be manifested by this integration must also be taken into account when planning the Budget.
We see, looking at the Four Freedoms, that there will be no difficulties in some areas, but problems with adaptation in others.
There will be no great changes to the movement of goods, because substantial liberalisation has occurred, nor in freedom of establishment, because the person or business is subject to the laws of the state in which they establish themselves.
We will, though, have problems with integration as regards the free movement of labour and the freedom to provide services, for the precise reason that there has been to date no competition in these areas, and these markets are only regionally oriented unless they choose to be otherwise.
The frontier regions will therefore come under particular pressure when the freedoms in question are introduced.
Specific aid measures are therefore needed.
The recommendations of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market make it clear that it advocates endowing the frontier regions programme that you, Commissioner, mentioned, with additional resources.
We are grateful to the Committee on Budgets and especially to the rapporteur for their accepting these suggestions and, in part, adding to them.
One point in particular is of importance to me: the instruments proposed by the Commission are not sufficient to strengthen competitiveness in the frontier regions, as they promote only cooperation between East and West rather than the specific situation of the frontier regions themselves.
A specific programme is therefore needed, and so we request the Commission to present a legal foundation for it; I take their statements to mean that they are prepared to do this.
