Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the European Community's programme of action in the field of public health for 2001-2006.
As we will, I think, probably end up going into the conciliation procedure, the programme will probably not become effective before early 2002 and its term will be delayed accordingly.
The European Commission had allocated EUR 300 million for all the European Union's health projects over five years.
I feel provoked by the way the Council of Ministers has again cut this amount and is willing to authorise only EUR 280 million.
This programme set itself the extensive goals of continuing the eight existing action programmes, and there are additional tasks, considered to be urgent, especially in the area of information and, as Mr Trakatellis has already mentioned, in that of the challenges posed by international terrorism, whose scale we can as yet scarcely grasp.
That being so, I cannot do other than give my full, whole-hearted support to Parliament's demand for EUR 380 million; indeed, I consider that the very least that the European Community must make available.
We must not be amenable to compromise on this, and the Council must not be left under any misapprehension about this.
The common position on the other areas, however, is in my view a great improvement on what the Commission originally submitted and on the documents produced by the first reading in Parliament.
The great majority of the amendments that have now been resubmitted, and to which the Environment Committee has agreed, I do not see as an improvement in absolutely every respect.
Despite the difficulties I have with them, I would like to express my thanks to Mr Trakatellis for the work he has done and, in particular, for his efforts at achieving a broad consensus in Parliament.
I must say, though, that further and continuing education is certainly a good start across national boundaries, but I have great difficulty with training in healthcare, medicine, and so on, becoming a matter for the European Community.
I see it as a matter for the Member States.
Some Members have expressed doubt about everything having to be done at a European level.
Coming as I do from a large Member State, I have seen only that the centralised allocation of tasks does not necessarily represent an improvement, but that individuals must really be helped where they actually are, and that, I believe, is done better by the Member States.
