Mr President, we are aghast at the large numbers who have fallen victim to these disastrous floods and I believe that it is the duty of the European Union, of the individual Member States and of the Commission to do all that we can now to give assistance to those affected and help them through this difficult time.
Even though Algeria is further south than our homelands, we know that it can be cold and very wet in winter.
That is why aid is absolutely essential and everything that can be done to reduce the suffering must be done, and it must be done unconditionally.
This does not mean that we will not hope that something good will nevertheless come out of this terrible catastrophe and out of our provision of aid, namely that Algeria will find a way to really step up the necessary dialogue with those who want peace and freedom in that country.
The sacrifices which have been made in Algeria, not only during the war against their colonial masters but also in recent years and months, are horrendous.
The acts are horrendous, and it is high time that the government and the president of this country found a way out of the crisis.
Expectations were high when Bouteflika was elected President, but there have also been many disappointments in recent months: disappointment that more is said than done; disappointment that the people are addressed ex cathedra and not consulted.
The tragic events in Kabylia - a commission in Algeria itself investigated them and uncovered their causes, amongst other things - should be reason enough to change the dynamics of communication and political relations in Algeria.
In the case of the unrest in Kabylia - which, of course, then spread to the whole country or to wide areas of it - it was simply not true that it was started by a handful of anarchists and others who were following foreign orders: the Algerian commission itself established that it was above all the inappropriate behaviour of the security forces which was responsible.
That is why the tragic events of the last few days should also be seen as an opportunity in Algeria to try to pursue a different policy, a policy which consists of offering the people more opportunities and more chances, including economic and social ones.
