Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report is a milestone for environmental and consumer protection, areas in which chemical policy to date has completely failed.
Hundreds of thousands of chemicals have been on the market for decades and we do not know in what quantities they are available and what risks they present.
It is as if the precautionary principle was trodden underfoot; these chemicals were, without controls, tested on us and on the environment.
Amounts totalling under 1 000 tonnes per annum are not even notifiable, regardless of the dangers involved.
We have, then, for decades been playing Russian roulette with our health and with the environment.
We must put an end to this frightening, indeed irresponsible, situation as soon as possible.
If the industry does not put the data on the table within a specified period of time, these chemicals will no longer be allowed to be put on the market.
I hope the majority in this House will not allow itself to be made the lackey of the chemical industry, for the aggressive advertising of the German chemical industry in accusatory mode has clearly shown it to be too helpless and incapable of presenting valid arguments at a political level.
Complaints about shop closures, raised even by Members of this House, are a positive joke in view of the way the chemical industry, while increasing production in real terms by 25% over the past ten years, brought about a reduction of 14% in its workforce - without a chemical policy along the lines proposed by the White Paper, and we know all too well that the chemical industry only has the chance to offer long-term employment if it offers for sale products that do not harm the environment.
Only then can the chemical industry's position be strengthened.
We will fight for the new chemical policy as the central point of European policy on the environment.
I believe this is about putting an end to decades of the 'ostrich with its head in the sand' policy and implementing a chemical policy which is effective and has a future, a policy which puts health interests and the precautionary principle in first place.
