Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is an historic tragedy that the country which has refused to adopt truly effective controls on the use of biological and toxic weapons was the first to fall victim to these brutal attacks.
Of course, this does not prevent us from expressing our deep sympathy with the American people and especially the families affected.
However, I believe that this sign of isolationism and unilateralism, which is still very strong in America, must be viewed by the European Union, and in particular by the Council, as an opportunity to lobby the US very hard, not only on this issue but also on the International Criminal Court, for effective international agreements and monitoring arrangements in the wake of these dreadful attacks.
It is grotesque that in recent days, Congress has debated a bill which vehemently opposes the establishment of the International Criminal Court - a Court which would deal with crimes like these, especially if they were supported and perpetrated by states.
The second important point - and I would like to address the Commission in particular here - is how we, in Europe, are equipped, as far as is humanly possible, to defend ourselves against such attacks or to reduce their impact to a minimum.
As has already been mentioned, the USA has an agency in Atlanta, a disease control centre.
Does the Commission think this should be considered in Europe as well?
Of course, I know that when there is a problem, there is a tendency to call for a new EU agency to be set up, which raises further problems of control and supervision.
However, in light of recent developments, I think that there are various arguments in favour of this type of agency.
In general terms, I think that the Commission must do more regarding security against this type of terrorist attack, whether it involves biological or nuclear weapons.
This is not a task which we can simply leave to the Member States.
Certain safety standards in these areas must be set out at European level in response to this type of terrorism.
I also believe that the Commission, together with the Council, must consider how we should deal with the installations, factories and laboratories which handle these hazardous products, especially genetically modified products, without encroaching unnecessarily on the privacy of employees while achieving a minimum of transparency, protection and prevention.
Those who work in this kind of installation must therefore be prepared to accept a certain measure of control.
Finally, I should like to ask the Commission once again what it intends to do to create this protection, not only in general terms but also as regards practical measures, in the coming years.
