Mr President, Mr Prodi, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the Commission's White Paper on European Governance in some ways comes at a bad time, and in other ways at a good one.
It is a bad time because any debate on the internal structure of the European Union and the way it functions, and on the legitimacy of the European Union itself will at present be dwarfed by the need to protect Europe's citizens against international terror and violence, with more arcane subjects being overshadowed.
However, it is also a good time for the same reason, by which I mean that the European Union has an opportunity at this precise moment to respond to people's fundamental need for safety within the EU, and for legitimacy combined with an ability to act outside its own borders.
Transparent, open and accountable decision making can accordingly help to make Europe's citizens more aware and at the same time conscious of the added value Europe can bring.
Your White Paper is a contribution to that added value, Mr Prodi.
Against this background, I particularly welcome those proposals in the Commission's White Paper that aim for a systematic dialogue at regional and local level, at a more active role for the Committee of the Regions, and the proposal that from 2002 onwards there should be an annual report on the implementation of the Amsterdam Protocol on Subsidiarity and Proportionality.
Subsidiarity and the Community method are not after all mutually exclusive.
The division of tasks between the Commission, the Council and the European Parliament must be clear, just as a balance between the Member States, the regions and the EU needs to be struck under their institutional triangle.
It is obvious that the European Parliament and the national parliaments should play a central role in the public debate on the future of Europe.
That is why I find it amazing that in its White Paper the Commission does not consider the idea of a convention as requested in the report by Mr Leinen and Mr Méndez de Vigo.
An open convention which works out the decision-making basis for the Council, with representatives from the Commission and from national parliaments and from the European Parliament, together with representatives of the Member States and the candidate countries and from the Committee of the Regions and the Economic and Social Committee sitting as observers, is an appropriate and essential forum for bringing the Union closer to its citizens and achieving transparency, and it must supplement and support internal reforms.
