Mr President, being one of the last to speak, I am in a strange situation in which basically everything has already been said, but not by everybody.
Nonetheless, I should like to comment on two points which I think are particularly important.
First, however, I should like to thank our rapporteur.
This is a superb report, couched in very moderate terms.
We can live with it quite nicely and, more to the point, it is a report which is conducive to consensus.
We must bear in mind that this is a progress report.
I think there will be a great many more progress reports to come on the question of Turkey's pre-accession to the European Union.
Now to the points on which I should like to comment.
First, the question of the death penalty which has not, I think, been adequately evaluated in the House this evening.
The general political reforms which Turkey recently introduced are very promising and we fully acknowledge them.
However, we all know, and Turkey should also know, which is why we must say so loud and clear, that they represent enormous progress within Turkey itself.
Naturally, from our point of view, they are just a beginning.
I must say, we always get a bit carried away when it comes to Turkey.
But, perhaps, the means are basically the end at the moment, especially when we consider human rights.
But, to come back to the death penalty.
We obviously feel that it must be abolished completely.
There can be no partial abolition of the death penalty from a democratic point of view.
There can only be complete abolition.
That this is difficult in Turkey at the moment for domestic political reasons is patently obvious.
The second point which I think is important is the fight against corruption within Turkey.
Because as long as sleaze runs public and social life in Turkey, the people will have no faith in politicians and as long as they have no faith in politicians, they will put more faith in the military.
But it is out of the question in a democratic community for the military, in the form of the national security council, always to have the last word, de facto, on parliament's resolutions.
I think that a great deal of work is still needed on this within Turkey.
And that can only mean fighting corruption and ensuring that the people have faith in politicians.
