Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes the very wide-ranging report and the proposed motion for a resolution, the content of which was formulated by the Committee on Development in close cooperation with the Committee on Fisheries.
I also would like to sincerely thank you, Mr Lannoye, for your valuable work on this in your capacity as rapporteur.
Your motion for a resolution stresses the need to take greater account in future of the development potential of local fisheries, especially small-scale coastal fisheries, and the needs of fisheries-dependent coastal communities.
As is clear from the Commission communication entitled 'Fisheries and Poverty Reduction' , the Commission wants to take a more sector-based approach in promoting closer partnership and political dialogue with the developing countries.
The developing countries' responsibility for determining their own development priorities and interests will be recognised and also directly encouraged.
Let me now turn briefly to the various development problems that should in future be taken into account in fisheries agreements and to which you expressly refer in your resolution.
The following in particular are mentioned as necessities.
The quantities that the Community fleet is allowed to catch must not result in local fish stocks being decimated, and fisheries agreements must be signed only if they are compatible with sustainable development of the sector in the developing country concerned.
The Commission is of the opinion that these principles, mentioned in the resolution, for taking account of development questions in the external aspects of the common fisheries policy are in harmony with the principles set out in the Commission communication on fisheries and poverty reduction and in the Green Paper on the future of the common fisheries policy.
And we do in fact respect them when concluding fisheries agreements with third countries.
In accordance with the United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, we base our fisheries agreements on the available surplus stocks that the third country in question does not fish.
The Commission also expressly shares the view that the principle of sustainable management of natural resources must be more strictly applied.
These same principles will also be taken into consideration in the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy initiated by the publication of the Green Paper a short while ago.
Let me come to a final point, which concerns improved coordination between development cooperation policy and the external aspects of the common fisheries policy.
I can say that the Commission shares Parliament' s view on this.
The country and regional strategy papers produced in cooperation with the developing countries must pay greater attention to the link between development cooperation and the external aspects of the common fisheries policy.
We will therefore also be addressing this subject in connection with the reform that is now being prepared.
This really is my final point: Mr Lannoye, you pointed out that it would be important to suspend structural aids from the structural programmes if a ship is transferred to a third country.
On this I can say that in the discussion about the extension of MAGP IV, which is coming next, we shall have to bear in mind that this thought has already been taken up in the proposal for extending MAGP IV and it is already part of the proposal.
I hope that this will also meet with Parliament' s approval.
