Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the weapons have been collected, so it is claimed.
The NLA has been dissolved, so it claims.
We all know that there are still a great many weapons in Macedonia, and the issue of a criminal association is still on the agenda.
It includes those who want it.
I still assume that most Albanians want it.
I also assume that most Macedonians want it.
However, the problem in many Slav Macedonian heads has not yet been resolved - otherwise, we would never have had the problem in the first place.
In recent years, nothing was done to enable the Albanian minority - a substantial 28 percent of the population - to participate genuinely as citizens on an equal footing.
If this issue had been addressed seven or eight years ago, instead of just two years ago, and if progressive measures had been taken to make all citizens equal, the rebels would not have had such an easy ride, in my view.
It is a pity - also for the Macedonian people - that it now looks as if there is only a response when criminal elements appear to be overrunning the country.
It is a pity, but it is the fault of all the political parties on the ground.
Ultimately, we have now achieved what this House has always asked for.
As Mr Swoboda has said, I would also like to remind you that we do not want a divided country.
Macedonia is a state.
It should continue to be a state, and it should not be divided along ethnic or national lines.
Anyone who considers this option puts the entire region at risk.
That is something which is extremely dangerous.
I very much hope that this new Parliament will also now try to implement the laws as quickly as possible.
The problem is that we are now hearing that what they have already voted for is being called into question again, and that sessions of parliament are constantly being postponed.
Obviously, there are reasons for this.
In Tetovo, for example, repeated attacks are being carried out on the Macedonian police.
We must ask ourselves why this is happening.
We must therefore be very diplomatic but firm with all our colleagues in Macedonia and ask them to make genuine efforts to progress with the Ohrid Agreement.
We must not allow any recourse to this dreadful idea of holding a referendum in order to put off these constitutional changes indefinitely.
That must not happen.
Hannes Swoboda, Joost Lagendijk and I will try to bring influence to bear on our Macedonian colleagues over the next two days.
I also think it is very important for an amnesty to be granted in whichever way is appropriate under the laws of the country, but this should not apply to crimes to be investigated in The Hague.
I think we should make a fine distinction here.
Naturally, I very much hope that the parliament will now put in place the laws necessary to strengthen local autonomy and give the minorities - which, after all, are majorities in some regions of the country - the opportunity to take genuine responsibility for their fellow citizens.
I think that if they pursue this course, as Johannes has said, we will have peaceful situations by the end of this year.
