Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the objective of the Television without frontiers directive is to establish an EU legal framework to promote the free circulation of audio-visual broadcasting services and to guarantee certain particularly important interests, such as pluralism, cultural diversity, and the protection of consumers and minors.
We have before us today the Commission's report on the application of the directive for the period 1997 to 2000.
The key points to emerge from this report are as follows.
The main objectives of the directive have been achieved, but a thoroughgoing revision of the directive is needed.
The five main points of the report, very briefly, are these: firstly, the directive has been implemented in 12 Member States, with three yet to follow suit.
Secondly, the television sector experienced an overall phase of continuous growth between 1997 and 2000.
This applies both to the number of television channels and also to the total turnover of radio and television broadcasters and to the advertising turnover of both state-owned and private broadcasters.
Nevertheless, the report indicates that when it comes to trade in television programmes, Europe has a deficit with the United States of some USD 2.9 billion, while the overall deficit of the audio-visual sector is some USD 6.6 billion.
Thirdly, the 50% quota for European works was clearly exceeded, except in Portugal, falling in a range between 53% and 81%.
Fourthly, although the provisions on the protection of minors were complied with overall, there needs to be better coordination in future.
Fifthly, four countries have so far made use of the new provisions under Article 3a about broadcasting events of particular importance to the community, and four others are planning to take advantage of those provisions, particularly for sporting events.
The committee noted shortcomings in the report with regard to implementation in the candidate countries and in the analysis of trends in media concentration.
The digital era is now on the way, and the integration of television, PCs and the Internet requires a fundamental revision of the TWF directive so as to create a European legal framework for broadcasting audio-visual material with various degrees of regulation.
The cornerstones of this should be as follows: first, the rules on advertising should be reviewed and made more flexible; second, the quota arrangements should be reviewed to see if they can continue to be a suitable instrument for promoting European works; third, we must guarantee open and compatible standards for various systems covering rights of access; fourth, there is a need for stronger and more effective self-regulation, particularly as regards the protection of minors; fifth, the trends in vertical and horizontal integration of the media should be analysed, and sixth, a review of the arrangements under Article 3a and how they are to be dealt within future is required.
I can therefore give my full support to Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 which have been tabled here.
The preparations for this review process should take into account the exceptional impact of television and new technology on democracy and society, particularly in the digital era.
The process of gauging public opinion therefore needs to be carried out openly, in a way that takes account of both experts in the audio-visual sector and the views of the public.
So I very much welcome the fact that the Commission has provided for a broad communication process, and we hope, Commissioner, that in view of the speed with which digital technology is developing you will bring forward your proposed review as soon as possible.
However, I would like to make an appeal to everyone: we must take advantage of the opportunities for dialogue over the next 18 months to demonstrate that the European Parliament cares about what matters to the public, especially when cultural issues are involved.
