Mr President, President Prodi, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Committee on Constitutional Affairs showed, by our unanimous adoption of the Kaufmann report, our ability, in the very short time available to us, to act in concert and respond to important reform proposals from the Commission, on which we will be able to take up a position either today or tomorrow, just in time for the European Summit at Laeken.
Let me just pick out a few points from the Kaufmann report and highlight the following: Mr Prodi, we are delighted to learn that you are sticking with the joint working party proposed in October.
What matters now is that we get it moving quickly and start collaborating appropriately on the subject matter in hand.
We, in the Group of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats insist in any case on an early start being made on this work.
We are glad that the Commission of the European Union has given up developing what would have been, in effect, its own administrative structures right down through the regions, towns and local communities, as we read about, for example, in preliminary drafts of its White Paper.
It is also our opinion that it is fundamentally unacceptable that the Commission should adopt a method of open coordination, bypassing its co-legislator Parliament, with guidelines sanctioned only by the Council of Ministers and with the Commission using the financial reins of the programmes to set their general course.
Here, too, the co-legislator needs to be involved.
We urge you to undertake an in-depth reform of the comitological procedure.
It is not acceptable that, with the help of the national bureaucracies, Parliament's legislative prerogative should be made null and void by means of implementing provisions whose content, purpose and extent are not laid down in advance.
We also demand that European agencies be kept to a minimum.
May we remind you that the Commission and the European Parliament are born allies when it comes to the promotion of European integration and action in the interests of Europe's citizens?
The transposition of European legislation requires at every level its own culture of public administration, which must also embrace the application of European rules through the authorities in the Member States.
There is an urgent need for appropriate instruction and training of civil servants at these levels.
