Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, despite all the praise, in which I, of course, wish to join, there are still some large flies in the ointment, which have indeed already been mentioned.
I am speaking in my capacity as rapporteur of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, with responsibility for consideration of the authorisation and radio spectrum directives, and also as my group's shadow rapporteur on the framework directive.
All these reports have been adopted unanimously in the Cultural Committee, and we have managed to bring substantial points from our position to bear in the leading Committee as well.
In the Council, on the contrary, all the Committee's concerns have been utterly cast to the winds, which it would be an understatement to describe as disappointing.
To get to the point: even though the package of directives we are discussing is called the 'telecoms package' for the sake of brevity, it must be clearly pointed out that it certainly does not deal only with telecommunication issues in the strict sense of the word.
Technical convergence does indeed mean that electronic services cannot be divided up by reference to their channels of distribution or the devices used to receive them, but this is specifically, in our view, about digital television and other services related to journalism.
What matters to the Committee on Culture, therefore, is that the whole wide range of Europe's cultural diversity should find a place on the networks and not be merely subject to the laws of the market and of competition.
This means that we see the issue of interoperability, like that of obligations to transmit, as being essential.
By these means alone will Member States and participants in the market have the legal security to guarantee services of general interest and only thus will the provision of the full range of services for everyone be guaranteed in terms of both supply and demand.
It is self-evident that Europe, for its part, does not have a duty to regulate the content of transmissions, but it is obliged to see to it that culture is not beaten into submission by commerce.
The bottom line is that doing without interoperability does not only impose limits on culture, but positively militates against the internal market.
So the Council's compromise is inadequate in every way, and we assume that there will be more change in this area.
