Madam President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, competition stimulates business, as the example of the motor industry over the last 100 years has shown.
The fact that there were at least three major production centres, the USA, Europe and Asia, was extremely good for business all round.
Airbus is another good example of what can be achieved by exposure to international competition, if we are not simply content for other people to make a good product that we can buy or even use free of charge like the GPS.
It will be no different with what we are discussing today - the GALILEO satellite navigation system.
Of course it is no bad thing that GPS exists.
Of course it is no bad thing, it may even be a good thing, that in many cases it is available to users free of charge.
But that there is, to all intents and purposes, only an American system is not good at all.
The Russian GLONASS is probably not entirely in the same category.
We Europeans have no real rights of access.
The examples there have been in the past have shown that we are suddenly bereft of navigation in one case or another.
Almost more important and quite central from my point of view as a university teacher is that we have no real involvement in technological innovation if we are not engaged in development ourselves, if we do not carry out research ourselves and if we do not ourselves take research to the applications stage so that it can also go into industrial production.
We need both, we need access and we need technological development.
We cannot talk about a society of knowledge and learning without taking the next logical step.
Above all, too, we also need the many potential applications in transport.
I believe that requires no further explanation.
Admittedly there are also problems when it comes to GALILEO.
The problems of finance have still not really been resolved.
Industry is still biding its time, waiting for public funding, while the public authorities in turn plead Maastricht criteria, empty pockets and the like.
Hopefully there will sooner or later be a genuine public and private partnership in this matter.
A last word on the tricky subject of double use or only civilian use.
I cannot understand the naivety of many of the tabled amendments.
There is not only good in the world.
The events of 11 September were a cruel demonstration of that.
Finally a word of thanks and appreciation to the two ladies who have made such a big contribution to this evening' s report, the rapporteur Brigitte Langenhagen and the Transport Commissioner Loyola de Palacio.
Neither of them lost their bearings in dealing with this topic.
