Mr President, Madam Vice-President, the likely reason for the Commission's proposal being such a centre of attention is that we are dealing here with employment, especially with mobility, and with issues of safety, environmental protection and economic development as well, and the opinions which are still being vigorously discussed today were also the basis for almost 500 proposed amendments.
I would like at this point to again make clear that, for us, it really is not about opening up local transport in such a way that it inevitably ends up in private hands.
Nor is it about local transport remaining in public hands unconditionally, and that is the subtle distinction that we want to make clear now.
National, regional and also local government are to be obliged to put local transport out to tender, a process to which conditions must be attached, conditions which we have clearly described in numerous proposed amendments.
For us, it is about safety.
It is also about certain exceptions, small markets in rural areas, for example.
We, of course, view these exceptions with sympathy, as we do the special aspects associated with rail transport.
As has just been said, though, our misgiving cannot be dispelled that many are more interested in the service provider than in the service itself, for the word 'voter' was just used rather than 'citizen', something that we find symptomatic of the whole discussion we have been having.
We have brought in numerous amendments and can, I believe, say quite unambiguously that these amendments prevent social dumping and also guarantee social security, safety in general, and, I believe, can give local transport a better future.
One final observation, with which I know the Commission has difficulty.
Protected markets make it impossible, in our view, for businesses profiting from them to take part in tendering processes in other markets without, at least, some problematic aspects being created.
As we see it, that is, and cannot be other than, unfair competition, which must be combated by all means available.
