Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is a saying that what is good is worth waiting for, and Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, the rapporteur, has referred clearly to the never-ending story of the matter under discussion.
It is specifically with reference to co-decision that it has at last been made clear that Parliament keeps on coming up with good ideas that find their way into work like this report on the never-ending story about the declaration of compound feedingstuffs.
We must be clear in our own minds that we are dealing here with large quantities, and therefore with a lot of money - not the European Union's money, but that of our partners in the market.
We are dealing with a volume of some 400 million tonnes of feedingstuffs, and it will help us to grasp how much we are talking about if we note that half, about 200 million tonnes, is made up of commercial feedingstuffs, and compound feedingstuffs make up two-thirds of that, some 115 million tonnes.
As Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf pointed out, the conciliation procedure eventually achieved a satisfactory result on the most important points at third reading stage by involving all interested parties - something which I should like very much to commend.
As Parliament demanded, there is now open quantitative declaration, and, although the 15% is in my opinion at the upper edge of the margin, consensus has nonetheless been reached.
It was also clearly stated that the producer, must however, and I see the 'must however' as very important here, state the exact percentages involved at the customer' s request.
Thirdly, there is the positive list.
About 20 000 components have been mentioned, and the drawing up of this positive list may well be a difficult task, but it will, I think, be an interesting and important one.
More time has been conceded, and even more for formulation following the directive's implementation, but it is, I think, important that it should happen that way.
Perhaps the evaluation report would present the right opportunity to introduce further improvements, such as, for example, the possible certification of the producer of the compound feedingstuffs.
There is one more point I would like to mention, namely that the first positive list, to look at things in a European perspective, was the so-called purity law for beer.
As I have said before, it was instituted in 1486 in the area I come from, and made applicable to the whole of Bavaria in 1516.
It was a fine positive list for the production of beer, and you should put all your drive and ambition into drafting an equally good positive list for compound feedingstuffs.
So, then, particular thanks and appreciation to the rapporteur, to the chairman of the Conciliation Committee, Mr Friedrich, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf and Mr Kindermann for the tough and persistent negotiations.
