Mr President, the European Union bears a particular responsibility in the fight against racism and racial discrimination.
The action plan adopted on 8 September in Durban is an important message and a contribution to creating awareness in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
The conference's eventual agreement on a joint declaration is to be welcomed.
Although many, but not all, NGO's and also many States strenuously attempted to convert the Conference into a unilateral forum of condemnation of Israel and to make the issue of slavery and colonialism an opportunity for demanding compensation payments, it can be counted a success that the Final Document did not take up extreme positions of this sort and that it came into being at all.
With hindsight, however, we must ask ourselves whether the European Union's generous support for the NGOs, which I consider justified in principle and which amounted to EUR 3.7 million, always found its way to the right destinations, all the more so as agitprop arguments to the effect that, for example, Zionism is equivalent to racism, are very much part of the political vocabulary of many States, Syria being one example.
The biggest terrorist attack to date against the civilised world took place three days after the Durban Conference.
None other than President Mubarak of Egypt has pointed out that human rights issues are often misused by terrorist organisations in order to build up their international networks.
Mark well, though, that human rights and the fight against racial discrimination and xenophobia are indivisible and of global significance.
Nobody is immune, as demonstrated by the ethnic conflicts in the Balkans and the most recent tragic events in Northern Ireland.
The Durban Action Plan is an important document for every State, but also for the European Union as a whole, which bears great responsibility in this respect, above all in the framework of the United Nations.
I wish the EU's role were more visible there as well.
