Mr President, although our views on the NLA might differ slightly, I endorse Mr Haarder's comments that the task now is to preserve peace.
Peace is still a precarious commodity in Macedonia, perhaps because faith in a shared solution, a shared state and a shared society is not yet fully established.
This is not surprising, for something like this takes longer than sitting at a negotiating table and engaging in negotiations.
However, if we look at the Framework Agreement, I think it is very important that renouncing violence is the first priority.
This is a democracy; it does not need violence to bring about change.
In a democracy, it must be possible to talk about change, conduct negotiations and then bring forth legislation to achieve change.
The second point is the country's integrity.
We do not need new borders or new states painstakingly drawn along some sort of ethnic lines, but which can never be drawn precisely.
We only need to look at the capital Skopje to see how impossible this is.
I have never understood why both sides - even if only briefly - have actually talked about the option of dividing the country.
Thirdly, this is a multiethnic state.
Many countries are multicultural, but this is a multiethnic state with a significant Albanian minority which cannot treated in the same way as a five or six percent minority.
Its status must be enhanced.
Its status has been enhanced, and we think it is right that these minority rights are being expanded beyond the usual extent.
I believe that overall, a good compromise has been found.
We will be in Skopje in the next few days.
We will stress the need for the remaining necessary measures to be put in place.
For our point of view, this continual prevarication and threat that there will be no agreement and coordination after all, or that there may be recourse to violence once more, are incomprehensible and unacceptable.
I hope that just as we are able to discuss Macedonia with a greater sense of satisfaction today, this prevarication will give way to a genuine feeling of satisfaction and acceptance within the next month or so.
