Mr President, the Maoist rebels in Nepal have unilaterally revoked the ceasefire and there have been 250 deaths within a few days as a result.
This is the latest painful chapter in the history of this young democracy.
The escalation in violence has claimed over 2 500 lives in less than six months.
Policemen have been killed indiscriminately, bombs have been set off in the centre of Katmandu and innocent people have forfeited their lives.
The Maoist rebellion evokes the risk of civil war, which would obviously be supported by the Communists in China.
The economic damage is huge; the number of tourists to Nepal, who alone represent the main source of income, dwindled to 24 000 last month, about 40% fewer than last year.
So far, the international community has looked on passively.
With the proclamation of a state of emergency and the deployment of the military for the first time, all that has suddenly changed.
India has said it will support Nepal with helicopters and night-vision equipment and the United States is considering sending in troops.
However, political measures must take precedence.
We call on the rebels to lay down their arms and return to the negotiating table.
In any case, they will not achieve one of their aims, which is to overthrow the constitutional monarchy.
I have visited this country regularly for the last seven years and I know full well that the overwhelming majority are in favour of these government reforms, irrespective of their religious or other affiliations.
King Gyanendra deserves our full support.
He has recognised the Nepalese constitution and is continuing in his brother's footsteps on the path towards democracy and the rule of law.
But we call on the government and the parties to get on with economic and structural reform at long last and to fight corruption consistently.
The people deserve proper measures to fight poverty.
Commissioner, the European Union has supported Nepal to the tune of EUR 120 million over the last ten years.
I have seen many of these projects with my own eyes.
They are excellent.
We are one of Nepal's most important partners and can therefore bring our full influence to bear as an honest broker.
