Madam President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the economic and employment situation in the airline industry and in the related industrial and services sectors is critical.
Although this situation was not caused solely by the events of 11 September, it was made much more acute as a result.
Air passengers' confidence has fallen leading to a reduction in passenger numbers, losses have been incurred because of the closure of American airspace and airports, insurance cover has been withdrawn and there has been a decline in the numbers of tourists from the USA and the Far East: these are the main causes, as is the cancellation or postponing of orders for new aircraft.
The fundamental causes of this crisis are, however, of a structural nature: crippling competition between the airlines, built-in overcapacity, a general economic recession and bad decisions by management.
This motion for a European Parliament resolution refers to a host of necessary measures, for example compensation for the closure of airspace and airports, financial support or guarantees from the Member States to compensate for insurance cover being withdrawn, proposals on providing financial support to the European air transport sector so as to establish a level playing field with the United States and strategies to safeguard or create jobs.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left supports this motion, although we are aware that it is intended as a very short-term measure and can only constitute a first step, but a step which should be taken immediately.
In the medium and long term, we need a harmonised European airspace, higher standards of quality and safety, highly trained staff, high social standards and no low wages.
The mass redundancies which were announced in the air transport sector even before 11 September are absolutely unacceptable to us.
We need a strategy to coordinate the different modes of transport; we need an all-embracing European transport strategy.
This problem cannot be solved on a mode-by-mode basis.
