Mr President, I am glad that, although you are from Regensburg, you are willing to give a minute's speaking time to a Nuremberger like myself.
Mr Santini, who has just spoken, has shown what this is all about.
If we are talking about an area of freedom, security and justice in Europe, if, like the President-in-Office, we are talking about a European home affairs policy, then even such a faithful servant of this master as Mr Santini will have to come to terms with the fact that we will also discuss Italian domestic politics.
Now, I am not an Italian left-winger, but a German left-winger, and I can tell you that I do not share the view expressed by Mr Verwilghen and Mr Vitorino, according to whom what happened in Rome yesterday represents progress.
Yesterday saw us achieve a victory in the first round, for 14 States of the European Union were consistent and determined in ensuring the failure of the attempt by the Italian Prime Minister, out of naked self-interest, to make use of his office of state to obstruct a criminal investigation that could involve him, and in ensuring that private interests were prevented from paralysing the European arrest warrant.
Yesterday, this same Mr Berlusconi - a former Member of this House, who, thanks to its President, was not subject to any proceedings to lift his immunity - had this to say, and what I quote relates to what was told me by President-in-Office of the Council Verwilghen, who drew a parallel between the European arrest warrant and the euro - accurately, in fact, in terms of their dimension and political significance.
What does Mr Berlusconi have to say about it?
Mr Berlusconi says: "Other nations have named 2004 as the deadline for the European arrest warrant to be put into effect, although it could be later."
I quote word for word.
If the Italian constitution is not amended, then we cannot join in, in much the same way that Great Britain is not joining in the euro.
Why do I speak in terms of winning a round?
I prophesy this to you: After all we have experienced in the Council, after all Italy's stonewalling in the interest of its Prime Minister, I tell you here and now that the same Prime Minister will now hold a referendum in order to prevent the European arrest warrant from being effective in Italy.
This is very likely, and so I do not yet believe that we have now implemented the European arrest warrant.
I do believe that this House will have to insist, with the utmost consistency, on the isolation Italy has imposed on itself over the last few weeks being maintained by the 14other European states, because anyone who has, like me or like Mrs Paciotti, crossed swords in this House with Mr Berlusconi or Mr Dell'Utri, will be painted by the Berlusconi press, as I was, as an old Stalinist - and I am not old yet, nor am I yet a Stalinist - or, like Mrs Paciotti, will be described as head of a communist conspiracy against Italy.
Looking at you, Mr Tajani, I understand why the people of Rome did not elect you as their mayor.
I can understand it, above all, when I hear you speak.
Anyone who, even tentatively, questions Italian policy, gets slandered in this House.
Mr President, I wish to thank Mr Watson, who has presented a very balanced and good report despite the ongoing attempts at blockade and the policy of permanent obstruction which Forza Italia, part of the Group of the European People's Party - though hopefully not for much longer - has adopted.
(Applause)
