Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you will recall, in the last Strasbourg week we had actually planned to have a debate to celebrate the opening of the Mont Blanc Tunnel.
In fact even then we were already discussing the tragic accident in the Gotthard Tunnel.
If we continue just to talk about this and do not take any measures then we will have to be prepared for the fact that there will be more accidents in these delicate and sensitive areas, in particular in the Alps.
However, in my opinion, and on the basis of my understanding of politics, this is unacceptable.
That is why we must do all we can to actually implement the proposals which the Commission has already rightly made in its White Paper.
I have no doubt that specific safety measures are also needed in the tunnels.
I have no doubt that stricter monitoring of working time, above all, is also required.
I hope that we will soon conclude the conciliation on this and that we will then move on to implementing and monitoring the measures on working time across Europe.
However, the fundamental problem is surely that there is too much freight rumbling through the Alps by road in heavy goods vehicles.
This is certainly not - as time and again it is wrongly assumed, appealing to popular sentiment - about standing in the way of economic links and cohesion; it is simply about this cohesion, these economic links and trade in general being created in a way which firstly is environmentally sustainable and secondly minimises the risk of accidents.
We will never be able to avoid them altogether, but we can minimise them and in so doing we can also above all give the railways a golden opportunity.
I - and I myself have also produced a report on opening up international freight routes - am in favour of the railways being stronger competitors here.
At the same time, I am however, on behalf of my group, also in favour of the transport policy, as postulated and laid down in the White Paper - I will say this once more in conclusion - being implemented quickly, in fact very quickly indeed, so that steps can be taken as soon as possible to avoid there being more accidents like the one in the Gotthard Tunnel.
