Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, particularly my colleagues in the Group of the European People's Party/European Democrats, let me beg you, as a matter of urgency: can we please turn it down a bit?
This is about a White Paper, and I believe we should not be trying to engage in muscle contests, which are in one way or another politically motivated, on the basis of this White Paper.
At some future point we will be having the legislation, when we can do the real fine-tuning.
It is a pity that some of the earlier speakers are no longer here; they will not hear what I have to say.
But perhaps someone will be able to tell them.
We have submitted amendments with the very same things in mind, which state that the duplication of work is to be avoided.
Amendment No 97 is to remove peer review in order to simplify the procedure.
We have already in committee brought in submissions on behalf of medium-sized businesses to the effect that there should be pilot projects, in which medium-sized businesses could deal with registration simply and effectively.
We want simple administrative regulations and have provided for the employees, who will be directly affected - the employees and the members of the European works councils - to be involved in the decision-making process.
These demands have been met, and I do not know why this all has to be played up and why the fate of the chemical industry has to be dependent on it.
We are dealing here with a White Paper, in which nothing is finally decided.
I cannot understand it.
We have also included a subparagraph relating to substitution principle, which states that substitutes, too, have to be subjected to complete life cycle analysis before they can be used.
So if we do not accept that and say, 'that is the way to do it' then I do not know what we are supposed to do next.
And this one tonne: I simply cannot understand the argument that substances under one tonne are intrinsically less dangerous than substances over one tonne.
Even they should be registered.
