Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, due to the tragic events of recent months, foreign and security policy is currently at the top of the public's agenda.
In the light of the events in the Middle East and America, it is easy to forget that the situation in the Caucasus is just as explosive.
The problems faced by Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan - including the relations between these three states - still give cause for concern.
Political instability repeatedly threatens the still incomplete independence process.
As a result, violent conflict within these countries is often the focus of public attention.
Yet the history of Europe - especially the history of the European Union - shows that despite the differences and conflicts of interest between states, it is possible to form alliances and thus transcend borders.
Where war once dominated the scenario, we now have peaceful and democratic co-existence.
It is based on the establishment of democratic structures and an emphasis on commonalities, which helped the Western European states to overcome their differences.
In the light of the global coalition against terrorism in all its forms which has emerged since the dreadful attacks on the USA on 11 September 2001, there is thus a need to support the states of the Southern Caucasus in their efforts to combat terror and violence which, sadly, are still a feature of daily life in these countries and threaten many people's lives every day.
The region's democratic structures are still quite new and fragile.
The situation is further exacerbated by the fact that disunity is incited from outside, and the neighbouring states in this region could try to impede or halt the democratisation process for their own interests.
For these reasons, one of the European Union's key tasks must be to give more support to the democratisation process in Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan.
Democracy is the only basis for lasting internal stability which in future will also transcend borders.
However, the European Union and the present Belgian Presidency should focus solely on providing assistance and support; under no circumstances should they intervene in these countries' internal affairs.
In specific terms, this means promoting these states' cooperation and cohesion, also as regards the possibility of a free trade area which must be set up without external influence.
The initial elements of trilateral cooperation are already in place; however, they must be expanded and supported in order to counter existing external influences successfully.
If these countries' shared rich cultural heritage is integrated into this process, I am confident that in the medium and long term, important results and successes can be achieved.
As Chairman of the European Parliament's Southern Caucasus delegation, I regard the EU Ministerial Troika's visit under the Swedish Presidency last February as the basis for necessary initiatives.
The joint motion for a resolution tabled by seven parliamentary groups signals the broad agreement between Members of the European Parliament on this issue.
I hope that the Commission, too, will make our concern its own.
