Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, chemical substances and products are a part of our daily life today.
To a large extent, we could not manage in our society without them.
For example, we use cleaning materials, cosmetics, plastics, medicines and much more besides, almost without thinking about it.
It is though, equally self-evident that we must know what effects the use of these substances and products has on our health and our environment, and so we need a practical and flexible system to monitor and evaluate existing substances and those materials that may be created in the future.
The Group of the European People's Party/European Democrats takes the view that the White Paper must do away with the inadequacy of European chemical policy and give first priority to protecting human beings and the environment, as well as to sustainable development, without thereby jeopardising the competitiveness of the chemical industry and of SME's in the global market.
The chemical industry is the third largest processing industry in Europe, and, according to the Commission's figures, provides 4.7 million jobs in almost 40 000 firms, most of them small and medium-sized enterprises.
With this report, we are deciding on their future.
The Schörling report clearly focuses on the ecological dimension, and there are grounds for concern that the excessive demands, on the authorities as well, will paralyse the whole system and condemn it to failure from the outset.
We in the Group of the European People's Party/European Democrats therefore cannot go along with the obligatory registration of materials of which less than one tonne is produced per annum; the extension of the approval procedure; the substitution and prohibition of substances only on the grounds of their characteristics; an additional peer review process; impracticable duties of notification and databases.
It is our opinion that only a balanced system can ensure the production of high-value products within the European Union, the safeguarding of jobs in it, and the improved protection of people and the environment.
