Madam President, I would first like to congratulate Mr Beazley on his excellent speech.
Mr Prodi, I would like to thank you for making it clear here today that you will not be bringing forward any proposals to amend the constitutional position unless you have the consent of the European Parliament and without a clear vote by Parliament as a directly elected body.
That is more than we have been told so far, and I am delighted about that.
At the same time I would like to thank you for trying to clear up any misunderstandings.
However, there are some things I am still not clear about.
I hope that you will be able to deal with those in your reply as well.
You said that fewer proposals would be emanating from the Commission.
There can be no objection to that, as long as you can tell us how this new vacuum is to be filled, because you know - just as my fellow Members and I do - that the Treaties of Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice stipulated very clearly the legislative role of the European Parliament and the roles of the Commission and the Council.
If you are now telling us that the Commission will be making fewer proposals, one of the implications of that is that you will be presenting framework proposals.
If that is what you intend, Mr Prodi, then you will have to ensure that there is a call-back mechanism and a comitology reform.
This is not just a drawback of the present system, as you just suggested, but rather an absolute necessity in the context of the ideas or proposals that you have for the future.
No one in this House wants framework proposals, but if you want them, then you must make sure they go hand in hand with proper democratic measures that do not adversely affect Parliament's rights.
You say that you want more modern measures such as voluntary commitments; no one in this House wants that.
However, if you still want that, you will have to protect democratic rights within the European Union and ensure that there is an Interinstitutional Agreement that leaves the rights of Parliament, the Council and the Commission intact.
You also said that the White Paper opens up the way for an interinstitutional debate.
It certainly does that.
But I would ask you, Mr Prodi, to state clearly before us that you do not intend to go back on the Treaties of Maastricht, Nice and Amsterdam, and that you share the views of the majority of the Members of this House about what I have said.
Not a single piece of legislation should go through without the European Parliament being involved.
There should not be any voluntary agreements and there should not be any framework agreements unless democracy is protected.
