Mr President, I wish to address two points - first the political dimension and, secondly, the issue of cost-effectiveness and control by Parliament.
As far as the political dimension is concerned, the Chernobyl disaster showed us that the use of nuclear energy involves risks beyond our control.
No national budget can cope with such a calamity.
At present, then, discussion is limited to the securing of the casing, which is urgently needed.
This is only a fraction of the money needed to deal with the disaster as a whole.
Neither the contamination of the soil and of the water underground, nor the harm done to the health of the population are capable of being dealt with within the Ukrainian budget, and it is in a situation like this that, for reasons beyond my understanding, aid from the EU runs out.
This means that these problems will remain unresolved for generations to come.
It might be added that no Western state budget - even that of a rich Western state - could cope with such a catastrophe without international aid.
This report therefore meets with the unreserved support of us Greens and regionalists.
We do not believe, though, that this will be the last contribution towards overcoming the after-effects of Chernobyl, which will be a financial burden on East and West for generations.
This report therefore invites the question: would it not be a practical preventive measure to at last bring in a European strategy for abandoning nuclear energy?
The question also arises of whether the nuclear industry itself ought to be compelled to contribute to a fund to help deal with the disaster, for it, now as then, derives profit from East European nuclear energy.
My second point is that it seems to us that the solution for implementation is not the European Development Bank, which guarantees neither control by Parliament nor affordable solutions, for Ukrainian firms are not considered when it comes to applying the resources.
We therefore urge the Commission to avail itself of all sources of information, and not only the Development Bank, in order to supply Parliament with comprehensive and up to date information.
