Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, President Prodi, the informal summit in Ghent has shown two positive aspects, namely fundamental agreement on a Convention to prepare a constitutional treaty and the final technical adjustments to the euro.
Under other circumstances, without the shadow cast by terrorism, this would be an occasion for looking optimistically towards Europe's future.
We are, however, concerned with a situation in which we ask ourselves whether, with the euro, Europe's capacity for integration has already been exhausted.
A common currency, a common foreign policy and a common defence policy would give the EU that credibility in the eyes of its citizens and create that identification with it, whose absence we often regret.
It has been, above all, in respect of foreign and security policy, that the Ghent Summit has brought us down to earth.
Bilateralism, if you want to call it that, or undeclared intensified cooperation, laid bare the weaknesses that still handicap the European Union's effectiveness vis-à-vis the rest of the world.
Reviewing the international analyses following the Ghent meeting shows how the shock at the terrorist attacks on the USA has revealed the divisiveness within the European Union.
It is not only a reaction to the behaviour of the USA, which prefers to deal and negotiate with governments direct, but also the consequence of the inherent military weakness of the European security and defence policy, in which there is a yawning gulf between ambition and reality.
It is no secret that there are doubts as to whether the training of the European Rapid Reaction Force of 60 000 men is actually going to be completed by the 2003 deadline.
The European Union needs an energy boost, not only to unite it more closely with its citizens but, above all, in order that it might fully meet its responsibilities within Europe itself and as a partner of the USA.
The process of enlargement must be seen from this point of view, as must the post-Nice order, involving a Convention which should not be content to fritter away its time but, as the European Parliament has recommended, should work out a coherent basis for a decision on a constitutional treaty.
