Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Langenhagen, the GALILEO project is technologically interesting and already has a lot of potential applications.
Up until now we have had the similar Russian and American systems, but these were designed and developed and are also operated from a military perspective.
The American system does in fact hold the real danger that in times when the USA is using it for military purposes the Europeans and all civilian users will be switched off, as actually happened during the Gulf war!
The GALILEO project is now being presented as a civilian project that will make the European Union independent from the USA in an important field of technology.
In my group, too, opinions on the GALILEO project differ widely.
But we are united on one point: we want it to be used for purely civilian purposes.
We have tabled amendments that are designed to ensure its exclusively civilian use.
Mr Rack, I am neither naïve nor do I believe there are only good people in the world.
But if we do not do this, we will have the same problem as with the American system, namely that when it is being used by the military it will be switched off for civilians.
You are not solving the problem you are claiming to want to solve.
Secondly, I also have concerns about finance.
A total of EUR 1 730 000 000 of European taxpayers' money is to be spent on development, validation and construction.
Industry wants to join in the construction phase, contributing EUR 1.5 billion, but so far only EUR 200 million have been committed.
That is 13%.
From a business point of view, no company could afford to develop something with such a poor equity position.
I think it an impertinence that you want to pay for this out of public funds!
Thirdly, there is another aspect to this GALILEO project.
The Americans allow the GPS to be used free of charge.
You want future users to pay for the European system.
Where do you think that will land you with your much-vaunted competition?
Competition works like this: if I am being asked to pay for something that I can get free somewhere else, I am not going to pay, and you won' t get any users.
Then you will have thrown all that taxpayers' money away!
Mrs Langenhagen, you described this so beautifully as a confection, and Mr Savary used the word historic!
This historic confection will cost a total of EUR 3.2 billion.
I think that is much too expensive for the present time and at this stage!
