Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by thanking the Commissioner for his outstanding work.
Of course, I would also like to thank our rapporteur, Mr Caudron, for his two excellent reports.
I would like to express my appreciation of the positive and constructive cooperation within the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy as well.
I too found this a very enjoyable experience, thanks, not least, to the sterling work carried out by our shadow rapporteur.
I would like to raise two issues.
Firstly, genetic research: genetic and biotechnology offer great opportunities in medicine and the environment, and it is certainly right to give massive support to these areas at European level.
However, as soon as human embryos become the subject of research, I believe that for ethical reasons, clear limits must be set.
Some Member States, including Germany, have banned the use of human embryos for research purposes, and this naturally includes associated activities such as the cloning of human life.
I think that our consideration and respect for other Member States make it incumbent on us to exclude activities which obviously raise serious issues of ethical responsibility from joint European research funding, and I therefore urge this House to vote for Mr Posselt's Amendment No 334 or Mr Liese's Amendment No 332.
The second issue which I would like to address briefly is fusion research.
I wish to voice my clear support for the funding of fusion research.
I believe that nuclear fusion can be developed as a future-proof technology.
It produces virtually no carbon dioxide emissions which impact on climate.
It also produces very little in the way of radioactive waste, and in particular, in contrast to nuclear fission, has no significant harmful effects over the long term.
In this respect, we Europeans should take the opportunity afforded in this area, in which we have a unique status worldwide - to continue appropriate research.
We should not cut the budget but leave it, at least, at the level originally proposed.
