Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome today's debate.
I am delighted that we are holding it at the end of the European Year of Languages, because we have tried several times during the course of this year to persuade the Commission to do something about lesser-used languages.
The Commission's standard response has been that it was not doing anything because it wanted to devise a special programme next year.
Now we hear that the Commission does not intend to do anything about lesser-used languages.
In this respect I am glad that this question is on today's agenda.
I am sorry that some joker has taken the liberty of changing the title of the resolution.
We are not talking about language diversity, we are talking about the lesser-used languages, which is why I am also rather sorry, Commissioner Nielson, that you chose not to honour a lesser-used language by speaking Danish.
It is not a question of pride, it is a question of respect for the diversity of European languages, of which Danish is one.
I am all for talking about it, I am all for talking more about it, I am all for the Commission's doing something about it.
But I must say to you in all honesty that the text before us today has been thrown together, it is slapdash and flippant and I, for one, am not proud of it.
I am sorry, but it has to be said.
We could have done a much better job if we had had more time, which is why our group does not support all the proposed amendments.
I think that Article 3 is better than Amendment No 4.
Why should I agree to your proposed amendment when our article in the resolution is better than your proposed amendment?
We mean the same thing.
We just need less flippancy here.
On another question, all of us here in the House - including me personally - are in favour of qualified majority voting on cultural affairs.
But we should walk before we insist on running.
We can only run once we have learned to walk, which is why we must keep a sense of reason and hope that Laeken prompts something in the convention to bring this about.
Finally, I should like to say that we in the European People's Party are ready to suggest an own initiative report on lesser-used languages at the next meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
This will allow all those who have spoken so fulsomely in favour today to put their money where their mouth is.
I for one would be delighted if we dumped this resolution today because it is not as good as an own initiative report could be.
I assume that the Socialists will want no part of it, so we shall see how it all turns out.
But I should like to inform the House that we shall be putting in for a report.
Please tell your fellow members to vote with us then next year.
