Mr President, the right of employees to be consulted and informed has been enshrined in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, but what use are frameworks set up at national or EU level, when employees are too often presented with faits accomplis, learning of restructuring processes only after the event or from the media?
I support Mrs Ghilardotti's Amendment No 5, which requires them to be consulted as early as the planning phase, so that they can have some degree of influence.
There was long debate on Amendment No 7, which laid down what information supplied by the employer must include.
This includes the economic situation - developments in the market, the structure of the organisation, the company's strategy - but also turnover and production figures to show the financial position.
This is about in-house information and not in any way about investment control by stealth.
More and more employees have a financial share in their business, now, and so they are well positioned to think entrepreneurially in local and global terms.
They are ready and willing to share responsibility for significant strategies that make their firms more competitive.
Dialogue between informed social partners is a major challenge, and so we also need training and development for qualified employees.
People with in-depth knowledge add to productivity.
These employees are willing to share responsibility even for crucial decisions.
All this adds up to another element in the structure of a modern organisation.
It is in small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) that dialogue between employer and employee is particularly important.
Mr President, you are right to emphatically put the case for them as well.
This dialogue is to be set in motion in the Member States, in accordance with their current national regulations.
The pressure of competition and the challenges posed by globalisation mean that there is no alternative to cooperation within businesses, provided that it is founded on fairness, openness and timely information.
