Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the arbitrary arrest of a Member of the European Parliament and a number of his fellow campaigners in Vientiane has put a severe strain on relations between the European Union and Laos.
In the intervening period both the institutions of the European Union and also the Member States concerned have done everything in their power to secure the release of those arrested.
In this context I would like to thank both the Commission and also the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, under the leadership of Elmar Brok, and also all those colleagues who have become involved in this issue.
Those arrested have now been released again.
The Italian government was particularly helpful in that it sent a government representative to Vientiane.
This action was ultimately successful.
I would also specifically like to thank the Ambassador of the Lao People's Democratic Republic, who made himself available for discussions with us both here and in Brussels and who obviously also had a very positive influence on events.
Laos has been a single-party state since 1975, that is to say that it is not a democracy as we understand it.
Places where there is no democracy and no freedom of choice usually do not have any constitutional checks either, and Laos is no exception to this.
Despite this, the European Union has a cooperation agreement with Laos, and in this framework the European Union is assisting not only the development of that country but is also helping to encourage democracy and constitutionality.
The ASEAN delegation accepted only this year that this assistance was indeed useful.
There are some very good projects in which the European Union is involved.
I would like to make it clear at this point that regardless of the unacceptable behaviour of the powers that be in Laos, we stand by our cooperation agreement and our willingness to provide assistance.
I also concede that our concept of democracy and constitutionality does not necessarily have to be accepted by every country on this planet.
In fact we need to ask ourselves every now and again if the European Parliament is really in a position to wave its finger at every country in the world and lecture them about democracy and constitutionality.
Nevertheless, we do have our principles and they have been infringed in this case.
We also intend to make sure that they are respected in future.
But we are willing to carry on helping Laos, whose people are amongst the poorest in the world, and to contribute to ensuring that this country has a chance of achieving a degree of prosperity.
However, we also want democracy and constitutionality to occupy their rightful place in Laos.
