I am obliged to the honourable Member.
The monitoring of progress in the capacity to implement is a standard procedure that we have developed over a considerable time.
We simply observe what legislation was taken over, and whether adequate material and human resources were available to make this legislation a reality.
It goes without saying that we also observe whether it actually works in practice.
This monitoring is going on constantly.
The information required for it comes to us from the most diverse sources, not only from our own, but also, for example, information is used which comes to us from Parliament.
We have a system that puts us in a position to say at any time to any given country how far we have got with their capacity to implement.
This procedure has been well established and has proved its worth.
As regards Turkey, I can tell the honourable gentleman that the current picture presents varied aspects.
There are positive things in it.
One is no doubt that the Accession Partnership is now working in all its aspects.
All its elements are present and are being kept to.
In this respect, relations between us and Turkey were never before as close as they are now.
Another positive element is no doubt the remarkable progress being made in constitutional reform and also in legislative matters, towards democratisation and respect for human rights.
This is surely still dependent on the extent to which these constitutional changes and legislation are actually experienced in the country's day-to-day reality.
There has been no progress in the economic sphere.
So much is well known.
There has been remarkable progress in conforming to the acquis.
That is the good I have to report.
On the negative side, I have to say that, as already stated, the human rights situation is still unsatisfactory.
I must say that I had expected more from Turkey by way of cooperation in resolving the Cyprus issue.
We have already discussed this in another context.
I am also disappointed by Turkey's conduct as regards the issue of European security and defence policy.
I do not find it appropriate for a country desirous of being a member of the European Union to hinder the European Union from making progress with a significant aspect of integration.
This is, in my view, not the sort of behaviour that we should expect of a candidate country.
