, draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
Mr President, the Commission's White Paper has the ambitious intention of comprehensively modernising EU law on materials and products.
It is fundamentally right to unite, in legal terms, old and new materials and combine them with standardised registration and evaluation procedures for all materials over one tonne per annum in a strict time concept by 2012.
This fundamental line taken by the White Paper strengthens sole responsibility for chemicals management in the industry and takes past experience with individual items of legislation as the basis for proposing a comprehensive reorientation.
Parliament's Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has adopted this report by a large majority.
The consequences of the White Paper's proposals for competitiveness, international trade, employment and medium-sized businesses had not previously been sufficiently examined, and further studies are still required.
In addition, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy expressed the view that legislation should be made to apply not to the attributes of materials but only to actual, scientifically verifiable risks.
Amounts are merely auxiliary quantities.
What is crucial is the amount of risk involved.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy therefore demands a two-stage screening process.
We expressly reject the following suggestions made by the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy: that sensitising substances be included in the approval procedure; that approval be granted only for a limited period; that the registration requirement should apply to all amounts under one tonne; that the public be given unrestricted access to all data; that there should be extensive prohibitions on materials; that extensive data and evaluations to be submitted by the industry should be subject to additional examination by peer review; and a number of other points.
A massive extension of the approval procedure would run quite counter to our common goal of reducing animal experiments.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy therefore takes a rational line, as demanded by both trades unions and employers in the European chemical industry.
