Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to echo the congratulations expressed by previous speakers and address just two points in Mr Brok's report.
My first point concerns conflict prevention.
The case of the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia provides us with an example of unsuccessful conflict prevention.
If all of the Members of the Council had worked as intensively as Members of this Parliament have for years to put pressure on all Macedonian governments finally to put an end to the discrimination of the Albanian citizens of that country, then we would not be facing the difficulties and problems which we are now.
If this issue had played a part in the Stabilisation and Association Agreement then the Members of the Council would also have seen it as a precondition and the terrorists from Kosovo would not have had any support for their campaign in the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
The Macedonians would not now be under pressure of time to change their constitution almost because of the success of the terrorist campaign, because they would have already done so.
So much for our failure to prevent conflict in this country!
A second matter which is very important to me was addressed by Mr Brok.
I think that the Stability Pact should finally mark the end of the conferences and quick start packages.
The Stability Pact should be closely linked to the work of the Agency for Reconstruction and should perhaps be extended to the Agency for Reconstruction and Development in this region.
For this reason, the Stability Pact should be incorporated in the Commission's remit; this is where all of the work has to be done in any case.
We would then be able to avoid resources being wasted because of friction, we would be able to achieve synergies and we would be able to make progress on establishing real stability in the region.
In this way, we would, for example, be able to foster significant and large-scale cooperation in the energy sector.
We would be able to make progress on the free trade area in the region, on constructing transport infrastructure and on combating trafficking in human beings and other commodities.
Many Commission officials will in any case very soon be unemployed because the enlargement negotiations in the Commission are as good as closed in some areas.
Let us give these people something to work on.
Let us hand over responsibility for the Stability Pact to those who can manage it and take it away from those who have in any case already begun to abandon it.
Let us give the Stability Pact to the Commission and, perhaps, to one other wise man, Martti Ahtisaari, in addition, so that it really is a success for the entire region and for the European Union.
