Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to begin, of course, by congratulating the rapporteur Mr Caudron.
I know from experience how much work is involved in bringing a framework programme to a conclusion, at least in draft form.
We will now formally adopt this programme today or tomorrow.
It is a time for great words, and great words are needed.
I would also like to take this opportunity to express my thanks for the cooperation with the Commission.
Paper does not blush, however.
We will have a good programme, but the work is only just beginning.
What are we going to do with all these objectives set out on paper?
How will we achieve these goals?
At the moment, this is written not so much in the stars as in the heads of the civil servants or, indeed, the Commissioner.
We therefore urgently need more precise details of this entire project.
We urgently need the specific programmes.
That is the first point.
We also urgently need further cooperation with the Commission if these specific programmes have to be amended by this House.
The second point is this: there is no sense in allocating EUR 17, 18, 16 billion - the figure has not yet been finally decided - if these funds are not used where they are most needed, that is, in the universities, in industry, and in the SMEs.
It is therefore vital to ensure that the rules governing participation in this framework programme are practicable, in line with the realities of the research world, and meet the needs of companies seeking to develop their innovations on the basis of this funding.
After all, we should not forget that research and innovation are not ends in themselves.
The purpose of research and innovation is to bring products to market and improve our competitiveness.
This can only be achieved if there are significant levels of participation, if the allocation instruments are transparent, and if everyone, from Finland to Sicily and Greece, knows what his or her position is.
The real work therefore starts here, not only for the Commission staff but also for us.
After the framework programme means before the next framework programme, but, above all, it means during implementation.
This House must therefore look very closely to determine how much continuity exists between the Fifth and Sixth Framework Programmes, how reliable the instruments used by the Commission are, and how this money is spent.
We will also carry out an ex post audit.
Thank you very much.
I look forward to further years of cooperation.
