Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with your permission I will just say a few additional words, which perhaps have more to do with practicalities and less to do with the substance.
Firstly, I should like to compliment Commissioner Lamy most particularly on the superb cooperation which we are enjoying and - I think that I speak for everyone - on the excellent manner in which he is representing the European Union in the run-up to this forthcoming trade round.
His task will certainly be a difficult one.
The right balance needs to be struck between, on the one hand, representing European interests and, on the other, ensuring that the other countries, our negotiating partners, and in particular the developing countries, are brought on board.
Personally, I believe that this round will, more than any other, be able to send out a message to the world that it is possible to reconcile trade and politics.
I trust, Commissioner Lamy, that you are in a position to achieve this, working together with your colleague Bob Zoelleck, but also with the many other negotiating partners that you have.
It will not be an easy task.
However, everything bodes well.
I am grateful to you for consistently encouraging Parliament to play a more significant role in trade policy.
Regrettably the Council has not taken the same step.
Like you, I hope that we will be able to achieve more in this respect in the future.
Incidentally, I should also like to thank all those colleagues in this House who have always supported this policy.
I should, moreover, like to remind you, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that you also have a task to carry out in Doha, namely organising the meeting with all of the trade ministers.
We have a good tradition of arranging for the European Parliament's delegation to meet the ministers attending the trade round.
I would earnestly request that you organise this meeting again this time and also ensure that we have a debate and that it is not just an occasion for a chat or seen as a bit of an afterthought, as the Council is wont to do, but that it really is an occasion for serious dialogue.
In addition, I should also like to inform you very briefly - my colleague, Konrad Schwaiger, mentioned this - that the parliaments will also have a joint meeting in Doha.
The invitation will be extended jointly by the President of this House and the President of the IPU.
I hope that we will make progress there.
Here, too, we need your support, Madam President-in-Office of the Council.
We have always had this support from the Commission.
Thank you once again for cooperating with us.
