Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the consequences of the internal market is that many things that were regulated in a quite specific way in the Member States are now subject to new and different rules.
Services of general interest are now an outstanding example of this, an example made more problematic by the additional factor that the objectives of services of general interest are similar in the Member States.
The instruments, however, sometimes differ significantly as a consequence not only of different cultural developments, but also of the Member States' differing administrative structures.
The drawing-up of shared rules is not exactly made easier by this.
The Member States must, however, continue in future to be able to decide what services they will categorise as being of general interest.
On the other hand, the rules must be as similar as possible in a common internal market.
Competition law, as laid down in the Treaty, provides on its own insufficient legal certainty when it comes to framing them.
On the other hand, the objective should not be to empty European competition law of its meaning.
It must therefore be interpreted in a binding way for the purposes of services of public interest.
We accordingly call for a framework directive to determine the Community principles on which services of general interest are to be founded.
This directive should lay down rules for the Member States.
Above all, though, it should provide legal security for those who provide services of general interest.
Thirdly, it should limit the space available for the Commission to exercise its discretion.
Its executive monopoly should not be infringed, but as far as its decisions in individual cases and its block exemption regulations are concerned, I would like to see it laid down what, for example, are 'economic activities' and what are not.
What falls at this arbitrary threshold?
When is intra-Community trade affected?
Above all, the many sectoral directives and regulations on which we are working at present must give direction to the legislative work in various sectors done by those of us in the European Parliament...
(The President cut the speaker off)
