Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, we should begin by saying to those watching us, who have found their way here in greater numbers than we MEPs, that we do not differ as regards our objective.
We all want the best possible local public transport at the lowest cost to taxpayers and passengers.
That is our common objective.
We now have to deal with the question of how best to go in that direction.
If your proposal is propaganda from the left of this House for the right of communities and regions to exercise free choice, then I can only say that the past fourteen years have demonstrated that free choice is to the citizens' disadvantage.
What, then, is the position?
In most towns and communities, services by the communities are being reduced and the subsidies are on the up and up.
So the reality is that we cannot carry on with the present system if we want a good, efficient, public transport service at local and regional level.
So we say we must put them out to tender, so that citizens get the best modern buses at the best price, with the best quality, and arriving as often as possible.
That is the objective we have set.
I can tell the gentleman from the Group for a Europe of Democracies and Diversities that, secondly, there is the Community Treaty, the Treaty on the European Community, in which it is stated that everyone shall have the right to provide services.
Freedom of services can be restricted only on the basis of a greater good.
The free will of a village community is not sufficient to say that one should limit the freedom of services under Community law in village A or village B. You need carefully-controlled legislation to be able to limit the freedom of services by reason of a higher good.
That is what we are doing.
If, though, you give communities back their free choice, you are suspending the justification for limiting the freedom of services, so, no matter what we agree on, be it journey times or whatever else, we need a proper framework for a controlled competitive order, and the free choice you propose undermines that, as we need sensible Community regulations to limit the freedom of services.
