Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mr Titford, I am convinced that setting up an efficient and independent European Food Authority as an early warning system is something very much to be welcomed.
It should act as a transparently functioning scientific reference point for the Commission, Parliament and the Member States, but it should also be open for producers and consumers.
Advice, information and risk communications for consumers can help to increase our confidence in the food we eat.
Food safety is a fundamental requirement for consumers who want to eat healthily and we must take responsibility for that here.
The food scandals over the past few years have demonstrated that we need, in particular, consistent implementation of directives and on-the-spot controls on food and animal feed.
If we are to achieve seamless traceability of production, it is essential to optimise the way we link the scientific facilities of this Authority with the control authorities in the Member States.
This will ensure safety in the whole chain from producer to consumer.
And imported food must be just as safe as food produced in the EU.
This safety can be guaranteed by imposing strict controls on food imports at the EU's present external borders.
In parallel to this, the countries of Central and Eastern Europe need to establish properly functioning systems for monitoring the safety of food and animal feed before accession.
However, one important problem will not be solved by the regulation before us today, and that is the dividing line between food and medical products.
We need to minimise the grey area between these two product categories, food and medical products, as far as possible.
If we do not succeed in this, the result will be new demarcation problems and legal uncertainty.
That is why it is a matter of urgent necessity for us to make sure that when legislation on medical products is reviewed, an unambiguous EU-wide definition of food and medical products is established, so that there is a clear dividing line, because we can only improve safety for the consumer if we establish a clear definition.
