Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to touch on a few points in the short time I have available.
Mr Daems, you quite rightly pointed out that you have achieved a great deal in the Council and you also referred to the flexibility on the part of the Council that this involved.
You said that we have reached a good compromise.
I agree, and I think that many of my colleagues in my group will see it the same way.
It is an acceptable compromise.
There are a good many points on which further negotiation is needed.
Mr van Velzen hit the right note.
We will have to carry on negotiating and fighting to achieve a common internal market, because this is just one step and further work will be needed.
I believe that we in this House have one particular problem with this, and I have already heard a lot of people saying that it is difficult to have an informal trialogue as part of the second reading.
That requires a great deal of work and needs a huge investment of time given all the linguistic difficulties involved.
The whole package that we have before us is very complicated and needs a great deal of detailed work.
I think that we here in Parliament - and I am addressing this comment more to Parliament than to the Commission and the Council, although it indirectly affects them too of course - will have to make a greater investment in ensuring that we have whatever support is required to tackle such a complex task from a political point of view.
This will still not guarantee completion of the internal market.
It is right that in future the Commission will have more power and scope for action.
We have not used the word 'veto' .
That is probably very clever in political terms, but nevertheless it is something along those lines.
Nevertheless, by means of cooperation and consultation, the national regulatory authorities have the power to ensure that they can take appropriate action to influence their national markets.
There is an interesting definition of transnational markets.
Nevertheless, there are two further problems to which previous speakers have referred regarding the interoperability of standards.
I believe that the proposal does not go far enough in this respect.
I cannot understand our countries, why they are not in favour of interoperability in the area of standards.
I hope that something more will emerge in this field.
There is also still a great deal more to be achieved, via consultation with Parliament, as regards Parliament's participation concerning technical measures, and that includes, in particular, Mrs Niebler's report, for which I am shadow rapporteur.
I would simply venture to point out that Mr von Wogau will, I hope, be bringing forward an interesting report next year dealing more fully with the issue of Parliament's participation in such consultation processes.
Once more, we have until Wednesday to consider things further, and the Council and the Commission have a further opportunity to comment on these points.
I would be delighted if they would do that today.
