Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Fiori, for his excellent work.
I believe he has presented an outstanding report, and the political message is clear: we are saying yes to research, yes to the treatment of serious diseases, but human dignity is the overriding principle and can set limits even to research.
This means, for example, that we reject the cloning of human beings at all stages of their development.
The news from the USA that ACT has cloned a human embryo has probably shocked us all.
People are right to be concerned.
I think being against the cloning of human embryos is neither right wing nor conservative.
Let me quote from a document produced by the French Communist Party.
It says that allowing therapeutic cloning by nuclear transfer gives rise to many ethical problems.
The first problem concerns the embryo.
The second concerns the woman as egg cell donor and the risk of actually creating a market.
The third problem concerns the precautions that must be taken with reproductive cloning.
Even if the two objectives of cloning are different, there is clearly a great danger of opening the door to a kind of automatism when we do not at present have the means to control this area.
There is nothing more to be said.
So-called therapeutic cloning of embryos leads to reproductive cloning and that is why it must be banned.
That is what the Fiori report says.
I am shocked at the amendments tabled by the social democrats and others who want to delete this passage from the Fiori report.
Neither are the arguments of those who want the deletion logical.
In the Caudron report we decided that we did not want to encourage the cloning of embryos.
I want to thank Commissioner Busquin because earlier this week the Commission again made quite clear that the Commission will not support this technology.
But if we then fail to prohibit it, that is an invitation to firms like ACT to come to Europe if it is banned in the USA.
I cannot imagine that the majority of Parliament wants that.
I therefore ask you to support the Fiori report and reject the deletions.
