Mr President, I want to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and thank him for his cooperation.
Completing the internal market for financial services and affording consumers a high level of protection is a Community priority.
Signing a home loan agreement is often the most important and the biggest financial obligation a consumer takes on in his working life.
We must therefore welcome the fact that a voluntary agreement has been reached at European level between banking and consumer associations on the duty to provide precontractual information.
That the code of conduct and the register of home loan providers to be kept by the Commission will also be made available on the Internet is also a positive move.
In this connection, in order to improve the comparability of consumer information, a precise definition of a common effective annual interest rate for home loans should be included in the European Standardised Information Sheet; it should be calculated in the same way throughout the Community and be consistent with the consumer protection directive.
The information sheet should be designed to include all the data needed to check how the loan is calculated.
This means, in particular, the manner in which advance and deferred interest is calculated.
That is one of the most important consumer policy concerns in this sector.
It is also desirable for Parliament to be included in talks about voluntary agreements in future so that absolute transparency can be guaranteed in drawing up the code of conduct.
I hope that this example of a voluntary agreement between market participants and consumer associations will prove successful so that it can be extended to other areas of financial services.
This will be a major contribution to the swift creation of the internal market in financial services.
But since the consumer side has relatively few resources available, concrete measures must be taken if the voluntary agreement is not kept.
Otherwise, the instrument of the voluntary agreement - a very good instrument in itself - might prove to be inexpedient because in the end the agreement is only kept by those who cause no problems anyway.
That alone would not be enough and would be of no benefit.
