Mr President, I believe it to be clear in the aftermath of this terrorist attack that we need a far more integrated policy, not only as regards its European scope but also in respect of its content.
We must combine foreign and home affairs policy so as to take into account the worldwide nature of the enemy and their presence in our towns and cities.
Mrs Carlsson is quite right; we must not do it at the expense of abandoning the liberal state under the rule of law.
Another issue is that of how the causes of terrorism around the world are to be fought.
We know very well that none of these three aspects can any longer be coped with by the Nation State.
Rather, it is only as a European community that we can get to grips with them and, to some extent, only together with the Atlantic Alliance and with our friends in North America.
I believe that we cannot be content with mere slogans, but, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, that we must, through the post-Nice process and by pressing on, in Ghent and Laeken, with enlargement and so extending the zone of stability, create the practicalities, instruments and preconditions for, in time, casting what would have been mere slogans into durable forms enabling us to comply with these requirements.
It is for this reason that the preparation for Laeken, with a rationally conceived Convention, is of such decisive significance.
We must see clearly that in these fields too, technology is extraordinarily important.
We must ensure - and I am sure that you will take the right direction in your role as Belgian Presidency - a Convention that is workable and represents the necessary legitimisation, on the basis of which to present to the Heads of State and Government a document that will facilitate the really great reform of the European Union over and above the agenda laid down in Nice.
Please permit me a final word to the chairman of the PSE Group.
There is a difference between a person who is a Prime Minister and one who, like Mr Nielson, is a Commissioner and thereby subject to the European Parliament's immediate right of control.
If someone is directly subject to the European Parliament, it must be possible to express clear criticism of him here in this House and to call him to account if he talks nonsense, as he has done.
