Mr President, I very much welcome the Belgian Presidency's use of the summit as an opportunity to put euro notes and coins at the top of the agenda.
Monetary union is, after all, not only for large businesses but also for every citizen.
I very much hope that this will be taken as a positive signal.
I would like to underline again that the position taken by the Heads of State and Government with regard to the Commission's proposal on charges for trans-frontier money transfers is surely a step in the right direction.
We, the European Parliament, will, no doubt, also take this step in the next plenary session.
The current situation as regards employment and the economy, that is, the state of the labour market, as well as consumer confidence, should surely be seen in a very critical light.
I welcome the Commission's report to the Council on the appraisal of the economic consequences of the terrible events of 11 September.
It is, I believe, important that we agree on a Community-wide approach.
Not everywhere is there evidence of one.
I believe that, in this situation, we must, now as in the past, stick with structural reforms and the advances they have achieved, particularly in the financial markets but also in the markets for goods and services and that we at the same time must not only underline the need for sound finances in the European Union and adherence to the Stability and Growth Pact, but should also make use of the flexibility for which this Pact provides, for we need more investments in the European Union.
Now as before, the Lisbon way is the right one, relying as it does on growth that is supported by investment and creates jobs and, above all, on mutual support in economic, employment and social policy.
Only when all the macro-economic actors have played their parts can our policy in the European Union be successful.
In these times of crisis we must hold fast to this, and the European Investment Bank, too, must be strengthened even more than previously in its task of helping public investments towards breakthroughs in the area of infrastructure.
By this I mean trans-frontier infrastructure measures in the EU itself, but also such as will connect our European Union with the states of Central and Eastern Europe.
