Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having gone through two readings and the conciliation procedure, the report on the circulation of compound feedingstuffs now prescribes the open declaration, and the Commission has to produce a proposal for a positive list for feedingstuff ingredients by the end of 2002.
Both these points had been at the core of Parliament's concerns, but had initially been rejected by the Council.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf's report is the very model of successful legislative work by Parliament and the Council.
In spite of all the differences between the political groups, constructive collaboration made it possible to draw up points that were important to us members of Parliament's agricultural committee, and the final result was a positive one thanks to circumspect negotiations in the conciliation procedure, guided by our Vice-President, Mr Friedrich, whom I would like to take this opportunity of warmly thanking.
This was the right step in the right direction.
Not only was it possible for Parliament to see its two core concerns accepted, but the Council also had positive elements to contribute.
The possibility of a + 15% tolerance margin for feedingstuff ingredients is something I see as acceptable, in that the manufacturer must state the exact percentages at the customer' s request.
Equally in line with good practice is an evaluation report after three years and, if need be, adjustment of the tolerance margin in the light of scientific and technical developments.
It would be desirable if we could make greater future use of the co-decision procedure on CAP matters and continue to work together as constructively.
Whatever our successes, I would like to conclude with the single warning that good European rules are of no use unless they are monitored.
The BSE and dioxin crises do not in some way reflect faults in European regulation; they were, rather, the result of criminal and questionable practices, which we must counter with determination and in new ways.
