Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking Gérard Caudron for his difficult work.
As we might say in German, it is easier to guard a sack of fleas than draw together the different interests in this House, and I would therefore like to express my sincere thanks for his successful efforts in this regard.
With the research framework programme, we want to make a contribution to enhancing the competitiveness of European industry.
We want to underpin and support our European policies through research.
However, we also want to bring research closer to citizens.
I am pleased, therefore, that in this latter area, we have been able to make some improvement to the Commission's proposal through three important steps.
As part of this process, it is important, in my view, for us to ensure that research complies with the principle of sustainable development as set out in Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Gothenburg Council Conclusions.
We must bring ecological criteria into line with social and economic criteria, and so it is only right and proper that research should be subject to this principle too.
This is reflected in a number of the amendments relating to energy and sustainable transport.
I also think it is important, and necessary, to interconnect research and society, firstly by examining every research project to determine the effect of research on society: in other words, by carrying out technology impact assessments, and secondly, by actively including citizens in the research dialogue and strengthening this dialogue between research and society.
It is only right and proper, in my view, for us to increase the available resources in this area.
The third building block to bring research closer to citizens is undoubtedly to enhance the opportunities available to SMEs, universities and small research institutions for participation in this process, as they, of course, offer great potential for innovation, and many people, many Europeans, are involved.
We must therefore ensure that the processes are simple, transparent and speedy, and above all, that those who are rejected also receive a response which signals that researchers are taken seriously.
If we are able to realise these three dimensions: sustainability, dialogue between research and society, and an effective approach to SMEs, then, I am sure, research will find a place not only in the minds of Europeans, but also in their hearts.
