.
My group welcomes the Commission's proposal to introduce a temporary defensive mechanism for European shipyards in the light of the breakdown in the negotiations to put an immediate end to the unfair international competition in the shipbuilding sector.
We also fully support the parliamentary amendments contained in the report, and in particular the one extending the duration of the measure until the end of 2003.
For some time now, together with colleagues from other groups, my group has been highlighting the general problems faced by European shipbuilding and the specific problems resulting from the international situation.
In September, the Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left visited eastern Germany to familiarise itself with the situation faced by shipyards there and made renewed pleas to the Commission to take action.
We see it as positive that a Commission proposal has now at last been tabled, which assures the yards, which have clearly suffered considerable damage because of unfair Korean trade practices, that help is at hand in the form of solutions which can be implemented quickly.
Many of these yards are in structurally weak regions with very severe economic and social problems and form the core of the existing economic structure.
Their existence and prosperity are the only way to secure thousands of jobs and safeguard the economic development of these regions.
However, my group also believes that further measures are necessary to safeguard the future of European shipbuilding, which is one of the essential branches of European industry.
These might include, in particular:
programmes to promote investment, which will have a long-term structural impact and create jobs;
the promotion of European cooperation on research and development in areas which affect the maritime economy;
the development of a coordinated maritime policy at European level;
the formulation and implementation of a European transport policy which seeks to move freight and passenger transport from the land to the sea.
We call on the Commission to take a stance on the fundamental issues surrounding the future of European shipbuilding in the first half of 2002 and to propose an action programme to resolve the medium- and long-term problems.
