Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 2004 will be the European Year of Education through Sport.
Sport has been since time immemorial a favoured, successful and effective means of influencing, in a fundamentally positive way, educational policy and the educational values that underlie our life together in society.
The promotion of sport and the partnership between sporting and educational facilities has a positive effect on teamwork, tolerance, solidarity, the campaign against drugs and violence, and on fair and healthy competition without recourse to doping.
These are values that need to be rediscovered and promoted.
This makes the choice of 2004 as the European Year of Education through Sport, and against the backdrop of the Olympic Games and Paralympics in Athens and the European football tournament in Portugal, very much to be welcomed.
The Commission is proposing a total of EUR 11.5 million to finance it, EUR 3.5 million of which are to be paid towards operational expenditure in 2003, the year when preparations for it get underway, and EUR 8 million in 2004.
The proposed financial framework must be compatible with the upper limit laid down in the Financial Perspective and must not be allowed to result in cutbacks in other areas.
For reasons of efficiency and for the avoidance of unnecessary administrative costs, a coordinating body should be provided for in each Member State.
There is, in my view, no need for a formal requirement to consult a group of as yet unspecified experts who would decide on the financing or cofinancing of individual measures.
Administration and evaluation of the programme should remain a public matter, that is, one for the Commission.
The decision on the European Year of Sport is the right one, but it is continuity that brings success.
This splendid scheme thoroughly deserves to be continuously developed, signifying as it does an investment in our young people growing up to be healthy and able to contribute to the integration of a healthy and united Europe.
This investment in our future will pay dividends, for our young people are our future!
