Mr President, Commissioner, my heartfelt thanks are due today to Mrs Martens and Mrs Avilés Perea for their reports on the programme of action for mainstreaming gender equality in development cooperation and on the annual report for 2000.
I think there are a number of parallels between them, and Social Democrat members can note with satisfaction that yet another building block has been added to implement the platform of the Beijing Conference on Women.
The framework strategy of gender mainstreaming is being implemented consistently.
We are facing a thorough analysis of the problem and see here clear instructions as to how it is to be implemented on a regional and national basis.
Gender awareness is in the meantime becoming accepted among some decision-makers, and we know that sustainable development must first begin with women.
We also know that sustainable development cannot be had for free, and so it is appalling that the Budget allocation for gender-specific development cooperation, which was EUR 5 million as recently as 1998, was cut by 60% in 2001.
How is a change in thinking to be brought about?
Incidentally, I recall that the Member States had undertaken to utilise 0.7% of their gross national product for development aid.
We are nowhere near approaching that.
If we do not act without delay, the credibility of the so-called developed countries will be at stake.
I also ask the Commission what became of the 'gender desk' in development cooperation.
How are we to improve reproductive health and family planning, improving access to contraception - which includes ensuring the prevention of HIV/Aids - and, moreover, get these things into rural areas, if we do not replenish Budget resources to a marked degree?
Political discussion may well have enabled us to rescue from the realm of taboo practices which demonstrate contempt for the personal value of women, such as genital mutilation, public floggings, stonings, violence and sexual abuse, to blow the whistle on them on the international stage and also combat them politically, but there is also a need for practical implementation.
We need consistent annual reviews such as that in Mrs Avilés Perea's report, in order to be able to examine the facts.
That is why my group supports both reports.
We can do no other than back them up entirely and call on the Commission to make these noble objectives a reality.
