Mr President, in no way has the human rights situation in Turkey improved over the past year.
I am in favour of Turkey's admittance to the EU, but the Copenhagen criteria must be met.
Whilst I welcome the amendments to the constitution, they fall far short of my expectations.
Turkey must take still further action, or else it will not be able to join the EU.
The death penalty has not been abolished, but only restricted.
Turkish politicians show little zeal when it comes to putting the changes to the constitution into practice.
Whilst Arabic, English, German and Chinese may be taught at Turkish institutions of higher education, Kurdish, the mother tongue of 12 million people, remains barred from the education system.
Over 10 000 students who availed themselves of their constitutionally guaranteed right and petitioned for Kurdish to be allowed, now face criminal proceedings.
They are charged with separatism.
Any peaceful and political solution to the Kurdish issue will involve the lifting of the ban on the language and the incorporation of Kurdish as a subject in the curriculum.
The Copenhagen criteria include the right to native-language teaching and media, and must be a non-negotiable condition for accession.
Members of HADEP have also been arrested and accused of initiating the Kurdish campaign.
The opening of proceedings to ban HADEP have seen increased repression of its members.
In the past year, 2001, 3 245 HADEP members were arrested, over fifty-five offices were searched and shut down.
Over 3 000 HADEP members were arrested on World Peace Day, and one person was even killed.
Commissioner Verheugen, I challenge you to travel to South-East Turkey and talk to the thirty-seven mayors who belong to HADEP, and who receive no financial aid.
The villages that were destroyed have still not yet been rebuilt.
How are the thousand refugees meant to survive?
Why is it that the South-East gets no money from MEDA Programme funds, even though the rules require it?
Banning HADEP will be a backward step for democracy, and will set Turkey off on a march in the wrong direction on the road that leads to Europe.
Along with my group, I vehemently demand that the proceedings against HADEP be abandoned at once.
The Conference of Presidents has resolved to send a delegation to Turkey.
Until such time as Turkey publicly speaks out against banning HADEP, any delegation must show its solidarity with HADEP and support it.
We must show here and now that this House does not accept undemocratic actions!
