Madam President, infringements of the fundamental principles of food standards law provide a great deal of headline material in many, if not all, of the countries of the European Union.
Although they involved a lot of distortion and scaremongering, reports played a significant role in preventing such occurrences from being forgotten.
The breaches in the investigation of BSE which have become public knowledge in recent days represent setbacks for all those who have campaigned to introduce a high level of consumer health protection in food production, and I think they had had some of those already.
It is precisely the great public interest in this subject, and the apparent avoidability of the most recent instances of human health being put in danger, that justifies the introduction of strict sanctions as asked for by the report, in order to finally stop new cases of BSE flaring up.
The highest standards in food production should apply in the European Union.
Such is the most significant statement in the White Paper on Food Safety.
The legal framework this requires must, as I understand things, be allied to a recognised early warning system through the EU countries, so that suspicion that human health has been endangered will result in the products being designated and their manufacturers named in public.
As a rule, public warnings are always desirable, above all when it is suspected that a product has been widely distributed, which is always the likely case in the never-ending cycle of food production.
It makes sense to me that specific food producers should be publicly named and warned where, in future, there is the mere suspicion of danger through unhygienic production practices or basic materials.
The widely-honoured principle is this: checks on animal feed are the preliminary stages of foodstuffs inspection.
The report's demands are indeed far-reaching.
Practical experience will show whether breach of a specific duty by the withholding of information should have the same consequence as fraud against the financial interest of the European Community.
The whole importance of the report lies in the necessity of referring again and again to the need to abide by existing prohibitions and instructions.
I wish to observe in conclusion that Mr Olsson's report is of contemporary relevance and shows close acquaintance with the present situation.
I do not believe that it is a plan of campaign for the next BSE crisis.
