Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me take a look at the economic and competitive aspects of public tendering from the point of view of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Mr Zappalà has just referred to the fact that, according to the Commission's estimate at any rate, 14% to 15% of the EU's GDP is accounted for by building and supply contracts and contracts to provide services, all granted by the State or by enterprises whose function is to provide services for the general public.
Looked at in terms of actual figures, 15% of the EU's GDP of about EUR 900 billion per annum amounts to EUR 125 to EUR 130 billion, not a small sum by any means.
In this very area of public contracting, though, the internal market has not yet prevailed to any particular degree.
There is a need for change to be brought about here.
The award of contracts across frontiers is still the exception.
Regulations are complex, muddled, rigid, cumbersome and bureaucratic, and the integration of social concerns and environmental issues into procurement practice has not yet been clarified either.
Those, at any rate, are the challenges Parliament itself enumerated in its debates on the Green Paper and the communication from the Commission in 1996 and 1998.
It is for that reason that we must now focus on the economic objectives and those related to competition policy.
Our aim is also to help bring the Internal Market to fruition in this area.
There is a need for clear, transparent rules that do not discriminate against anyone tendering for these contracts.
On the other hand, though, there must also be the guarantee that nobody tendering for a contract can gain unjustifiable advantages for himself.
It must therefore be made clear that standards must be adhered to as laid down by the law on labour, pricing and the environment.
It is for that reason that Mr Zappalà is not quite correct when he argues in his final remarks that the economic aspects should be separated from the others.
You cannot, of course, evade the other standards in order to gain an economic advantage.
That is one of the ground rules that we all share, and it must also be obeyed.
