Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like first, and on behalf of my group, to thank the rapporteur, Mr Deprez, for the excellent report he has produced on Europol.
We talk a very great deal about this topic here in Parliament, and I believe we are agreed that Europol is an important department and one that it is right and proper that the European Union should have.
It creates greater security for the public and can help us to contain cross-border forms of crime.
To guarantee that, we need good staff, who of course cost money.
On that much we can agree.
It is therefore somewhat painful for us to have to make clear our present position on the issue of employees' salaries.
It really does sadden me that we at present have to resort to sanctions when it comes to officials' salaries.
We do not actually want to get into a row with officials, and would much rather deal with the Council, but that is how things are at the moment with Parliament.
The question has been put to us, and this is our answer.
We demand that structures be set up to facilitate the control of Europol by Parliament.
This is something that the Council, in the long term, cannot ignore.
To the Council, I say that its conduct in this matter will determine the extent to which the great majority in Parliament will cooperate with it.
My group sees the strengthening of Parliament as one of the most important aspects of a future stable Europe.
The success of enlargement is also dependent on Europe becoming more parliamentary.
This is true in all areas, including internal affairs policy and internal security.
We want not only to have co-decision when it comes to money; we want the shaping of internal affairs policy to start with Parliament, and budgetary law is part of that.
Let me remind you, in this context, that we have hitherto been highly cooperative.
The Council's post-11 September measures have our full support.
We gave our full agreement to terrorism being combated without delay.
Being convinced that it was right to do so, we also did not hesitate to join in drawing up lists of persons and groups whose assets were to be frozen.
We have added essential aspects of counter-terrorism to our agenda, and that has been in cooperation with the Council and the Commission.
Having given our full support, we now, though, expect the Council to make its move.
We have conceded something in advance.
It is now for the Council to meet us halfway.
Until that happens, we will support our rapporteur Mr Deprez' proposal that the Belgian and Spanish initiative on Europol be rejected, and will hope that Europol's officials will be able to understand why we do so.
