Mr President, I would like to start by offering Mr Purvis some small comfort.
He is indeed right that it would have been a good thing to have had an opinion from the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, but we, the European People's Party members of the Environment Committee, whilst of course representing the interests of the environment and of consumers, also represent the interests of business.
We all stand for an environmentally responsible market economy.
We know that protecting only the environment while ruining the economy is no use to consumers.
With us, Mr Purvis, the environmentally responsible market economy is in safe hands.
Austria ratified the Cartagena Protocol this year, depositing the instrument of ratification with the UN in New York on 27 August.
We know that some Member States see ratification as dependent on the passing of this draft EU regulation on the implementation of this Protocol.
This gives us all an interest in this draft being passed quickly.
Allow me, Mr Sjöstedt, to comment on some of the amendments, for example Amendment No 6.
The Regulation addresses only the Community, so that it is quite unnecessary, and, I think, irrelevant, to speak of 'any other Party'.
Like some of my predecessors on the floor, I think that the Protocol should cover only living GMOs, and that anything else would be wrong.
The area of liability and compensation is also, of course, very, very important and crucial, but on this we should wait for the outcome, which we expect to bring with it traceability and labelling.
It would, after all, be absurd for us now to insert some provision or other, and then engage in long-winded discussions on a quite different regulation, or another directive, on traceability, labelling and liability.
I rejoice in the knowledge that the Danish Presidency has as one of its objectives a Common Position at the Environmental Council on 17 October, following the conclusion of the First Reading stage in plenary, which is planned for the end of September.
We look forward to 17 October with great interest and wish the Danish Presidency and ourselves all the best for it.
