Madam President, I would like to congratulate the Presidency of the Council on the ambitious programme for the Asia Summit in Copenhagen.
It is, in my view, particularly gratifying that there is a specific focus on dialogue on culture and civilisation, for it is particularly in these times that mutual understanding in this area is particularly important.
All too often, there is still great misunderstanding despite the progress made in relations between Europe and Asia, which are distant rather than close, in contrast to relations with the ACP States or Latin America.
We have to come to understand that the Asian states are not merely in economic or trading competition with us, but that they are genuinely important partners.
Both Mr Maaten's report and also the communication from the Commission make it very clear that the strategic framework also has to highlight priority areas for political and strategic cooperation, in which area the strengthening of the United Nations will, on the one hand, certainly be a point of view that will carry weight, as will without any doubt, on the other hand, the bilateral and, as far as possible, joint efforts at tying the USA into a multilateral relationship.
In this time of conflict, when we are faced with problems and challenges, it cannot be too often emphasised that it is most important that Asia and Europe should support a multipolar world.
This is where we, as Europe's Parliament, can certainly play an important role with these reports and these debates, and the ASEP Summits could emphasise this.
I really do consider that important.
I would also like to emphatically underline the role to be played by the principle of detente and change through rapprochement in giving human rights and democracy issues priority.
What have we achieved in Europe by means of this policy?
Why can it not used to give us leverage in Asia?
That we should be cooperating with the Asians in this way in the ASEAN Regional Forum, and in other areas affecting stability, is something I consider right and proper.
I would like to take this opportunity to make another appeal.
Another issue here is certainly cooperation between non-governmental organisations, as is the new relationship on the basis of equal rights, partnership and mutual understanding.
What, though, will we have achieved if this remains confined to the heads of government, to the business world, or even to the parliaments?
We have to include the young people of these continents of ours.
With that in mind, I would like to encourage the Danish Presidency of the Council to do even more for the European-Asian summer schools and even more for mutual understanding between the young people of Asia and Europe.
