Madam President, the word Romania has been mentioned several times today already.
I do not think either that we should criticise only the small poor, destitute countries that are being blackmailed but surely also the large rich ones, the ones actually responsible for the blackmail in the first place.
This shows that in the European Union we need a calm, unified position on the USA, and we lack this at the moment.
On the one hand we have a Head of Government in London who acts as though his country were the fifty-first US State.
On the other, we have a Head of Government in Berlin who to hear him talk would seem to be confusing Baghdad with Washington, and who gets his first message of congratulation after the elections from Saddam Hussein.
I believe that both of these approaches are wrong.
We need a calm, unified, but critical and independent position on the USA.
This is not least in the interests of the USA itself.
Strengthening international law and its instruments is a fitting response to 11 September; this then includes the International Criminal Court, which we have been fighting for years and which is an indispensable instrument.
The Criminal Tribunals for the Former Yugoslavia and Rwanda are actually doing an excellent job, but they are repeatedly discredited in propaganda as dispensing victor's justice.
This is wrong!
However, if we are to have objective standards in the long term we really do need to strengthen international criminal law in respect of crimes against humanity and genocide, and we need an International Criminal Court that is there for everyone in an equal capacity.
We should be clear on one thing: history teaches us that for example the League of Nations failed because this splendid idea emanated from the USA but the USA itself did not participate in it.
We call on our American partners and friends to work together with Europe to strengthen international law and the Criminal Court, because otherwise we are providing states in the Arab world, but also China and Russia - I might mention Chechnya and Tibet - with a pretext for ignoring international law on their territory.
That is why Europe needs to speak to the USA in a self-assured manner, but calmly and reasonably and in a spirit of partnership.
