Mr President, Commissioner, we have already heard what we are to gain from the new Tempus programme and from its extension, which is thoroughly to be welcomed, both as regards the countries taking part and also the target groups.
Great challenges and great opportunities are united here; I believe that the programme needs to have its funding increased in order to meet them.
There are also particular considerations to be borne in mind when extending Tempus III to the partner countries around the Mediterranean, specifically in matters concerning policies on women and the opportunities open to them.
In the countries south of the Mediterranean, there are still very few women who have received higher or university education, especially in rural areas.
The reform and development of higher education structures associated with Tempus III is primarily, or among other things, to be seen as an opportunity for women.
In Jordan, which along with Malta and Cyprus, sets an example in the Mediterranean region, the proportion of women in higher education is already over 50%, but that on the teaching staff of universities and colleges, and in decision-making positions in them is still very small, making the picture there similar to that in the European Union as far as the presence of women in leading positions in universities and colleges is concerned.
One very ambitious objective is to highlight common cultural values through cooperation in higher education.
Respect for other cultural values is of course very much worth striving for.
It is further enriched by the fact that political decision-makers - and let me say, with reference to the error in the German translation, that 'political decision-makers' is the expression to use rather than 'political representatives' - are being included here as a second grouping with academic and civil society.
I really would like to underline that, as it is very often said that it is political decision-makers that should have co-decision in these matters, and that is why the translation error needs to be corrected.
It would also be encouraging if a 'think tank' could be created, consisting of members of NGOs, educators, administrators, and academics together with citizens from the participating countries.
The involvement of the widest possible range of fora is intended to create a local dimension in addition to the supranational and national ones, in order to make it possible to consider citizens' needs at an earlier stage.
I believe that the most important thing is that we can get many problems out of the way through our ability to regain, over and over again, the sympathy of our fellow-citizens.
