Mr President, the elections in Cambodia, which at least represented progress by virtue of being the first local elections for decades, were preceded by an electoral campaign in which the media were manipulated by the ruling party and persons in positions of power, who exploited them for their sole benefit.
A tide of intimidation directed at the opposition parties culminated in innumerable violent deaths and mysterious murders.
That being so, these elections cannot be described as free in the true sense of the word, even though our colleagues have reported from Cambodia that the ballot itself seems largely to have been conducted in a correct manner.
We must, though, register the fact that there is still a great need for democracy to really take root in this country, which has been tested by adversity and has suffered more than any other in the world from the horrors of the twentieth century.
No other country in the world has seen a totalitarian rampage such as took place in Cambodia under the Khmer Rouge, and so the wounds are not going to be healed overnight.
We must, though, nonetheless see to it that we apply clear standards and promote democracy and the Rule of Law - and that can only be done through the local communities.
I therefore appeal to the Commission and the Council to systematically promote and support the newly-elected local assemblies, by which I mean not only the representatives of the ruling party but also those of the opposition parties, which must not be allowed to degenerate into fig leaves, but which are needed so that this first tentative step towards democracy may result in real democracy and not just a propaganda show.
We therefore need training and development for local politicians; they, their access to the media, and free media themselves, need to be fostered.
These need to be the priorities of our future policy on Cambodia.
Forces such as Funcinpec, too, as well as others, need to be promoted by us, so that a genuine and stable multi-party system may arise in this country that has suffered so much more than any other.
