Mr President, I am speaking on the Hulthén Report in my capacity as shadow rapporteur for the PPE-DE Group, but I cannot be anything other than astonished at Commissioner Nielson's behaviour in particular.
What has been reported by the Members of this House who were in Johannesburg, and also his conduct here today, make me wonder whether it makes any sense to let a Parliamentary delegation take part in such summits in this way.
Let me turn now, though, to Mrs Hulthén's report on climate change, which is excellent and for which I thank her.
One might say that this topic has been whirled back to the surface by the floods in Germany and in neighbouring countries.
Although we cannot say that this actual flood was a product of climate change, we are all aware that such events will occur more frequently if we do not take prompt action now.
This makes the European Climate Change Programme important, but the actual measures so far proposed by the Commission are insufficiently ambitious.
Emissions trading is a highly controversial topic in this House, and the Commissioner knows that Mr Moreira da Silva has my firm support in his efforts at improving the Commission proposal and preventing it from being watered down.
The Commission proposal on emissions trading is, however, only a part of a comprehensive strategy.
Too little has been done to date in the areas of transport and the Budget, and, if we are not careful, this can even result in grave distortions, for example, to the detriment of railways and to the benefit of HGV transport.
We are still waiting for the proposal on the energy efficiency of machinery.
If we are to have a comprehensive strategy on this as well, Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi should waste no time in submitting a very ambitious proposal.
I would like to draw Members' particular attention to item 16 in the Hulthén Report, which has to do with the abolition of subsidies that harm the environment and the climate - a difficult topic, but we are sticking with it, dealing as it does with the introduction of a revenue-neutral pollution-related levy for all areas to which emissions trading does not apply.
This means that industry, if it wants to campaign against emissions trading, has to ask itself whether it would, in its stead, prefer this pollution-related levy, and I do believe that we will then have a hard-headed discussion on this issue.
