Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, the citizens of the European Union have a right to security and they recognise that the European Union has a very decisive role to play here.
They also recognise that internal security is the sine qua non for stability and economic development in the European Union.
They also showed during the recent elections that those who deny this need and are not prepared to take suitable measures will find themselves ousted from office.
I am grateful to President Prodi for speaking in such unequivocal terms here today and I welcome and expressly support the Spanish initiative to be taken at the summit in Seville.
President Aznar said that immigration is a key problem and he is right.
But what we want are differentiated immigration measures.
We want measures to speed up the asylum process and measures to integrate genuine refugees, but we also want measures to control and limit immigration, depending on the capacity and needs of our individual Member States.
And we want a package of measures so that war refugees can be housed temporarily.
What we particularly welcome is the package of measures designed to combat illegal immigration and trafficking, especially the initiatives you intend to take to set up a European border police force to be deployed in the zones along our current and future external borders which are particularly at risk.
I also welcome cooperation with the countries from which immigrants come, help in bringing about political and economic stability, readmission agreements and sanctions against countries which are not prepared to protect their borders and even encourage illegal emigration.
If a great deal has been promised and initiated in the past and very little achieved, it has nothing to do with the Council presidency and everything to do with individual Member States and national animosities.
I call on you with the utmost urgency to lobby the Seville Summit to put these measures into practice, especially the measures on immigration.
You can count on the full backing of the European Parliament.
