Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to focus on the actual task we are to perform as a European institution, but without neglecting the demands also made of the Member States.
I believe that the digital age will see the acceleration of current developments in the services offered by the media, which are far from being limited to traditional television, or even to the Internet, but include many other services, and so it is right and necessary that we give thought to the legal form that control and the protection of young people might take, and also set up the means for dealing with them.
There is no doubt that the legal framework must be adapted to these new developments, at both European and national level.
I speak also for my group when I say that I consider self-regulation instruments to be an important addition to a legal framework.
We cannot do without standards laid down in law, and these are a compelling necessity.
Self-regulation instruments, too, need to be on a legal footing, which means that the promoters, those who provide the programmes, cannot be absolved of their responsibility.
To put it another way, we cannot allow service providers to shirk responsibility for their programmes.
That is the basic premise.
As for how this can be put into practice, there may be - and indeed there are - many ways of going about that.
Regulatory arrangements in the Member States are very diverse, which is ultimately due to the fact that they correspond to conventional media systems as these have evolved, and we are not about nullifying all that.
I emphasise that self-regulation instruments as additions to the law are something we cannot do without.
Technical systems, too, can be indispensable, but they cannot be a substitute for responsibility.
We also know that many children and young people, in an age when adults have not mastered the whole range of technical options, are ahead of their parents in that respect.
That will change in the long term, but that is the way things are today, and we all know that children can get up to all sorts of tricks, for example when it comes to cracking something.
That is why we cannot rely exclusively on technical systems, and why there is a need for contents to be monitored, in which respect there must be restrictions on content, which cannot relate only to real-time transmissions.
The different time zones in a region over which a satellite broadcasts make that obsolete in any case, and so even that method has serious limitations.
I am very glad that this report takes up my group's call for the continuation and extension of the action plan on the safe use of the Internet, which is due to come to an end at the end of the year.
I see this as compellingly necessary.
I will conclude by saying that we must take steps to impart media literacy to children, young people and their parents, as a sound capacity for judgment can only come into being if our measures help to develop it.
