Mr President, Commissioner, I too would like to thank the rapporteur at the outset for his close cooperation.
All of one mind, we are on track to make Galileo a reality.
I would also like to start by thanking the Commissioner, who repeatedly and doggedly pleads, and indeed fights, for Galileo at Council level.
Economically, technologically and politically, Galileo is a strategic project for the future.
That has already been said several times.
Here in Europe, we should remember how it was explained to us decades ago that we did not need the Airbus, we did not need a missile industry.
They would do all that for us, and it would be for the best.
Where would we be today if, for example, we had not developed the Airbus ourselves?
Now, though, I have two practical observations on Mr Glante's report.
I consider it essential that industry should today already be actively involved in Galileo.
There is no use in describing Galileo's importance in fine words; we need industry to make a clear commitment to Galileo.
We must make a start right now on developing services to get products onto the markets of the future, products which would enable Galileo to be self-financing, which is what both sides of this House want: hence we need absolutely clear support for the Commission proposal to this end.
We should, though, perhaps give thought to some reduction in the 'front-loading' .
I see Galileo's political dimension as a second important point.
We want Europe to have a common foreign and security policy.
We have the Rapid Reaction Force, and we want, in the future, to send our soldiers to troublespots.
Here, too, we need to assume responsibility for our soldiers, which means that we have information systems of our own and are no longer dependent on third countries.
What this means is that Galileo is, to some extent, necessary if we are to grow up in the way we approach external policy.
Tomorrow should, therefore, see Parliament send a clear demand, for the sake of Europe's future, that the Council should decide in favour of Galileo!
Apart from that, we propose, as an alternative, that, if the Council proves to be Galileo's undoing, we might well have to have thoughts about the defence budgets, and I am very definitely of the opinion that it is our primary duty to ensure that Galileo remains a civilian product.
