Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you too will have received the letter from the various citizens-rights groups dealing with the very point that has now become key in this directive.
The issue is whether data retention should be permitted, that is to say the storage of communications data.
What is at stake here is not just a move to a little more surveillance, but a whole new type of state monitoring.
Up to now the police and other parties have had legal access only to what was said or written at the time of surveillance.
This document is intended to make it possible to access communications after the event, thus restricting fundamental rights retrospectively.
This is a new kind of police state aimed at intruding into our private lives.
For example, what happens to data the state collects about you and your Internet surfing patterns?
That data is stored and passed onto the next government.
No one knows who will have access to it then - it could be the normal authoritarian Social Democrats, or it could be Le Pen, Haider or Rasmussen.
After all, even before 11 September no one was aware to what extent fundamental rights were being whittled away with the agreement of western democrats.
We have experience in Germany of such preventive restrictions on fundamental rights.
The Radikalenerlass, or Radicals Decree, did not just involve charging those affected with illegal acts, it also related to acts merely regarded as undesirable by the government.
So the effect of the directive we are debating today could be that if I download information about right-wing radicalism from the Internet now I could at some point in the future lose my job as a civil servant.
This document still includes the term data protection, although it no longer relates to data protection.
The only thing still to be decided is what the title will be of the planned Council proposal requiring data retention throughout the European Union.
The directive before us today is preparing the way for that proposal to extend monitoring by the state across Europe.
