Mr President, from the point of view of the Budget, it is certainly to be welcomed, and in equal degree indispensable, that the Community Research Framework Programme is to be given more concrete form.
The sum of EUR 17.5 billion approved by the Council was, in any case, up for debate, which means that it was available for distribution.
However, I had to resign from the position of spokeswoman for the Committee on Budgets which had been entrusted to me; this was not out of any refusal to do the job, but rather because the committee had resolved not to take up a position this evening, as we are dealing here with new methods of integration and coordination, which are not to be assessed ex ante.
I would nonetheless like to make use of this time, as practical experience has brought to my attention something I regard as crucial.
I refer, Mr Busquin, to the Commission's negotiation of contracts with small and medium-sized enterprises with regard to proposals eligible for support under the Framework Programme.
How is it that projects with what I regard as excellent content are doomed to failure because the applicants cannot stand up to the Commission's assessment procedure?
An assessment procedure, which, in my view short-sightedly, insists on profit margins and liquidity, utterly disregarding the firms' capacity for innovation and willingness to make investments.
An assessment procedure that faces SMEs in particular with safeguards that constitute high obstacles, and, in the final analysis, an assessment procedure that is humiliating and has a demotivating effect on firms working in an essentially innovative way and with less emphasis on profit, which should therefore actually be favoured partners in the Framework Programme.
Cofinancing requires that we ensure that private traders do not misuse Community funds or misdirect investment of them.
That much is clear, but such an audit needs decision-making parameters that are more accurate and more responsive to individual cases, or else innovation and initiative will be systematically ruled out rather than supported, and we will end up, as we did with the European Structural Fund, with an accumulation of funds and wasted resources.
