Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what is it that differentiates a Taliban-style regime from a democracy?
I believe it to be, above all, respect for constitutional legality.
Whatever the temptations to deviate from the path of constitutional legality, the fight against terrorism can only be carried on if the Rule of Law and also, above all, international agreements are respected.
The USA, then, should not even give the impression that that it does not regard international agreements, the Geneva Convention, and so on, as binding when it comes to the treatment of terrorist suspects.
That is also the reason for our resolution.
Let me take this opportunity to say something else.
The lady who spoke before me said that Europe and the USA have the same vision.
That is, unfortunately, not entirely true, as the fight against terrorism in which the Americans are currently engaged is not, from our point of view, a very effective one, although it is a fight against terrorism which, as such, we all support.
I might just say that the Americans had a highly ambivalent, not to say, sometimes even tolerant, attitude towards terrorism when it suited them, but, following those first fearful seconds on 11 September, they have, unfortunately, again left the path of multilateralism and of the quest for allies.
I do not want to defend any of the regimes of North Korea, Iran and Iraq, which differ greatly from each other.
Yet this simplistic way of lumping all these regimes together and making them out to be an axis of evil in fact demonstrates that the US government, despite Secretary of State Powell's very honourable attitude, is unfortunately taking an approach that does not effectively combat terrorism.
We know, for example, that there are several groups in Iran that are not very keen on going down the same road as President Khatami, his foreign minister, and his government.
We are also aware, though, that there are powerful forces in Iran in favour of going down this road, and I therefore believe that, no matter how unequivocal the fight against terrorism, we have to make it clear to the Americans that their way of fighting goes against constitutional legality and is not very effective.
