Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs Carlotti for her excellent report.
Mrs Carlotti, your report represents a kind of political road map indicating the route to a genuine parliamentary and democratic assembly.
It contains many helpful proposals for modifications.
So it is a good thing that it is to be adopted before the plenary session in Cape Town and can be taken on board in the discussions there.
Mrs Carlotti has already gone into many of the recommendations contained in the report just now.
As shadow rapporteur, I would like to comment briefly on a few points.
The Cotonou Agreement led to a fundamental reformulation of the goals of cooperation between the EU and the ACP States.
Some of the key substantive and political improvements to that agreement are the result of proposals made by the European Parliament.
Mr Corrie has done excellent work in this area in recent years as co-President.
The result is an ambitious agreement that opens up new horizons for cooperation.
But it now needs to have life breathed into it.
The working methods and procedures of the JPA need to be streamlined and to correspond to a genuine parliamentary, joint, democratic assembly.
This process was initiated last year and needs to be continued.
These new powers should make it possible for the Assembly to exercise tighter financial control over the expenditure of EU development aid.
Stricter monitoring and budgetary control combined with regular contacts between the Members of the Assembly and Members of Parliament from the recipient countries could help to ensure proper use of EU funds in line with the actual needs of the ACP countries.
The report calls for enhanced cooperation with civil society and non-governmental organisations.
In view of the political dimension of the Cotonou Agreement, it seems desirable to establish a dialogue between the public and politicians in the ACP and EU States.
The obstacles in the way of making the JPA a genuine joint parliamentary assembly need to be eliminated as soon as possible.
It is very regrettable that ratification of the agreement in the EU Member States is moving forward at such a sluggish pace.
The risk that this will send the wrong signal to the newly industrialised countries with which the EU has strong historical, political and cultural links should not be underestimated.
