Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the setting up of the Convention is indeed a step of extraordinary significance.
I believe that the Convention on the future of the European Union will shape the face of Europe.
I am pleased that it has been possible to reach an agreement, an understanding, on its financing despite the misleading speculation at the outset, especially concerning the amount of funding necessary.
As has already been mentioned, the costs for this year are estimated to total EUR 10.5 million.
Part of these costs will be covered by the Member States or candidate countries, namely the travel expenses for their members.
Most of the costs will, however, be borne by the European institutions.
I should particularly like to mention Parliament's contribution here, which will be provided as infrastructure resources, namely translation and interpretation.
One estimate reveals that a further EUR 4 million will be required for other sundry expenses.
What are these other sundry expenses?
They include, for example, the funding of any studies which may be required, or, perhaps, additional translation services.
The estimate thus stands at EUR 4 million, and a consensus has been achieved very quickly on how these EUR 4 million are to be provided: EUR 400 000 from the Council, EUR 1 million from Parliament, and EUR 2.6 million from the Commission.
These resources will be paid directly, via the supplementary budget, into a fund which will then be available to the Convention.
I believe that with the Interinstitutional Agreement, to be signed tomorrow, our discussions have resulted in an arrangement which will ensure extraordinary transparency.
In this way, all three institutions will be involved in setting the budget for the Convention, making any amendments to this budget, and granting discharge.
In this context, the prior assent of all three institutions will be required, especially in respect of the discharge.
The institutions will not be dealt with en bloc; voting will not be based on majorities.
Instead, the assent of each individual institution will be required.
Clearly, this is a quite exceptional model, and I am pleased that this point is emphasised again by this House in its resolution.
It is entirely in the Commission's interests - and let me stress this point - for this exceptional nature to be underlined.
The Convention is exceptional, and the solution which we have found makes it clear, above all, that it is in the interests of all three institutions to ensure that the proceedings of the Convention are a success.
Let me conclude by reiterating one key point: despite all the speculation, we have achieved a good solution very quickly, and it would be a very positive step if the signing of the Interinstitutional Agreement, together with the adoption of the resolution on the supplementary and amending budget, could take place tomorrow.
In conjunction with the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Committee on Budgets, we will thus have made a significant contribution to establishing conditions for its success.
