Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, migration is putting the European Union under increasing pressure.
Networks of smugglers are making billions out of illegal immigrants and, at elections, the public shows its displeasure at EU immigration policy being far from ideally organised.
We need Europe-wide strategies on immigration and asylum, and so I am pleased by the Spanish offensive, which I emphatically support.
Our expectation must be that speedy and reliable asylum procedures be rapidly implemented, in accordance with our decisions, that we decide on strategies for the deportation illegal immigrants and of those whose applications for asylum have been rejected, and that we make rules for the lawful economic migration of labour, which must be what the Member States require, and within the limits of their capacities and needs.
I welcome the way in which decisive steps are being taken to combat illegal immigration, whether by the introduction of the 'Eurodac' system or by joint patrols of the external borders by a Eurocorps, doing the best job possible with the aid of satellites and radar.
In addition, though, we do of course need help on the spot, in other words, measures to create stability and provide help in the countries of origin.
What we must firmly reject, however, is what assails our ears from Europe's left.
At national level, arguments that we neither want nor need are served up in beer halls, whilst, at the European level, the left-wing clientele is kept happy with demands that the public neither understands nor supports, such as, recently, for all applicants for asylum to have access to the labour market from day one on and to have freedom of movement right across the European Union, even though only 10% of them can acquire refugee status.
Thank God the Council and the Commission are supporting us, the Group of the European People's Party, in taking this sensible line on immigration and asylum policy.
You on the Left - your policy is not accepted.
Not only is it not accepted; if it is proceeded with, it will incite more Le Pens.
That is something we do not want!
That is something we do not need!
So I rejoice at the Spanish Presidency's commitment and support Commissioner Vitorino's initiatives.
(Applause from the right)
