Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our group supports the proposal to timetable Mr Solana's statement for 5 p.m. tomorrow, and to combine it with a debate, so that the time from 5 p.m. to 7 p.m. would then be available for it.
Members must also be aware of the fact - which we must view sympathetically - that Mr Solana cannot be here on Wednesday, as he will be on his way to meet the American Secretary of State in Madrid.
We in Parliament have to accept this reason for his absence.
I have, though, one request, and would be grateful if other groups could join me in making it.
I am, in particular, addressing Mr Barón Crespo, as I do not want to place conditions on our agreement to defer the vote on budgetary control.
We have, though, accepted your argument, and I ask you to accept, when we prepare a resolution on the Middle East, that the vote be held on Thursday rather than on Wednesday.
Our group is not actually in favour of a resolution, but the Conference of Presidents took the contrary view that there should be one.
As democrats, we accept that.
We will also be joining in the negotiation of a resolution, although we already had a very sound resolution in the last part-session, and will be playing our part as the ground-rules of Parliament require.
If, though, negotiations take place on Wednesday in Madrid between the European Union - represented by Mr Solana and Mr Piquet - on the one hand and Secretary of State Powell on the other, it must be possible for the results of their discussions to find their way into the text along with everything else.
That will probably not be that straightforward in procedural terms, but the groups here should in any case be able to comment verbally on what comes out of Madrid.
It is, then, my urgent request that we should not vote on the text of the resolution on Wednesday - that would in any case be too late for the talks in Madrid - but should vote on Thursday, when the results from Madrid will be known.
I should be grateful if you could agree to that, for we too are accommodating when you bring to this House matters in which you have a justifiable interest.
