Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me respond first to Mr Bösch's question about the Ombudsman.
This is after all a separate plan, and one which must, of course, be managed within the constraints of category 5 if new requirements exist.
In response to Mr MacCormick's urgent call for more posts at the European Court of Justice, let me say that the category 5 ceiling applies here too, and I would point out again that you mentioned this in connection with enlargement as well.
With enlargement, according to the financial perspective and according to Agenda 2000, we will have more resources available in category 5.
Our joint task at that time will be to allocate these resources appropriately.
This means that with enlargement, these restrictions will ease to some extent, taking account of the fact that in a European Union with 25 Member States, many new posts will be needed in Parliament, the Council, the European Court of Justice and, not least, the Commission.
In response to the questions and comments made by Mrs Smet, I fully endorse her view that women's policy and equal opportunities policy must flow into all policy areas.
This is not simply a voluntary statement, although I make it quite voluntarily.
It is a binding commitment under the Treaty, and one that is taken into account quite explicitly in many policy areas.
On the issue of human rights violations, especially violence against women, let me point out that Article 9 of the Cotonou Agreement also reaffirms that the equality of men and women is an integral element of human rights.
Of course, this is also a guideline for all measures in the area of category 4.
In response to Mr Heaton-Harris's question on the OLAF budget, and why the Commission has introduced a cut in the PDB of around EUR 700 000 compared with 2002, this is actually a technical adjustment.
In 2002, Parliament amended the establishment plan, compared with the Commission's proposal, resulting in more 'B' posts instead of 'A' posts.
Naturally, 'B' posts cost less than 'A' posts.
This was not accounted for in 2002, but it has been accounted for in the preliminary draft for the year 2003.
In other words, this is not a cut but an adjustment, although I would point out to the President-in-Office that during its first reading, the Council has now introduced a real cut which will have to be discussed.
Let me add that in our call for additional posts in preparation for enlargement - posts which are not yet secure, although I greatly appreciate Parliament's efforts in this area - additional posts are envisaged for OLAF as well.
With your permission, Mr Heaton-Harris, I will refer your questions on export refunds to my colleague Mr Fischler later.
