Mr President, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, I feel that this evening's debate is not only almost a birthday present - it really is one, of a sort.
When we started discussing this in 1999 - the business between Austria and Germany is sufficiently well known - I had just been elected to Parliament, and today, three hours before my birthday, we are going a bit further.
So I am very grateful that this debate is being held today of all days.
I also thank Lord Inglewood, who, in one sentence, conceded that we are right.
He said that he respects the decisions of other Member States and I thank him for that.
England and continental Europe differ in many respects, and it is these very differences that matter in our united Europe.
This debate also made evident and re-emphasised our respect for each other.
For that I especially thank Lord Inglewood.
My most especial thanks are due, of course, to Mr Rothley, and to all those who worked with him on this report.
The Commission, which has repeatedly argued that this EU of ours is above all an economic and monetary union, has changed a very great deal in the last twenty years.
A very great deal of interest in cultural aspects has been noticeable in the individual debates, albeit not enough in my view, but we have travelled a long way anyway.
Together with Parliament, the Commission made a wise decision in early 2000, and if, by that wise decision, the Commission said 'A', then it is for the Commission to take the next step and say 'B'.
Now, in a world that has gone digital, we have different demands from twenty years ago.
It is not only on behalf of my group, but also of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport that I can express overall support for Mr Rothley's proposal.
Our current solutions to the fixing of book prices are not meant to represent an attempt at harmonising the European Union, but to give written expression to our mutual respect, and we have to get to grips with the digital requirements with which a new world presents us.
Many thanks for listening.
