Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, on behalf of the Commission, to thank you very briefly for your many contributions, observations and suggestions during this discussion.
I would like to suggest that the specific questions raised by the rapporteurs of the individual committees should also be discussed in those committees with my colleagues.
We have agreed a new procedure for working together on setting priorities for next year, in which context, during April and May, there are to be many bilateral discussions between the relevant committees and the Commissioners.
When talking about the priorities for the forthcoming year, one must also, of course, draw on the experience of past years.
The Commission will of course, in the coming months, be working on the other issues and demands raised in the reports and will give an account of this work in the follow-up report.
We have indeed seen that these discussions have, much more than in the past, focused on structural issues in budget management and implementation, and also on reliability testing.
These issues will no doubt leave their mark on joint discussions in the coming months.
As regards the methods used by the Court of Auditors to produce a Statement of Assurance, it goes without saying that we are prepared to look deeper into this concept and the idea of a single audit, in order to enhance and improve the coordination between the Court of Auditors and the checks carried out on the spot by the Internal Audit Service on behalf of the Commission.
Turning to enlargement, the admittedly great delay in the agricultural programme has shown that it is sometimes necessary to give priority to the requirements of monitoring.
This has necessitated great restructuring on the part of the candidate countries in which the individual paying agencies are now gradually being accredited.
We hope that this year will then see the start of disbursements to the farmers.
Let me again thank the rapporteur, Mr McCartin, the other rapporteurs, and the whole Committee on Budgetary Control for their work and for their recommendation that discharge be given.
