Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, when we endeavoured to come up with a joint motion for a resolution yesterday, we took all the issues you have touched upon today into account.
There was a really broad consensus on the points we discussed, and I do not just mean humanitarian issues and reconstruction in Afghanistan, but also other political issues.
I would like to discuss that here, but I would like to specifically mention that my colleague Mrs Gröner will be dealing with the position of women in Afghanistan, which is a very special issue.
Our motion for a joint resolution starts with a clear condemnation of terrorism, stating that Afghanistan's historical problems also contributed to the need for intervention of this kind.
I do not want to say any more about that intervention.
It was very broadly-based and it at least attracted support and could be justified.
We believe that the role of the United Nations - and I am now returning to the same discussion that we had earlier - is not being given sufficient weight at present.
The United Nations needs to decide not only about peacekeeping measures, but also about the future of this intervention.
The United Nations also needs to define the objectives of this intervention, the time required for it, and it should also decide when this intervention should come to an end.
We believe that the moral justification we had for this intervention should also apply to the treatment of prisoners from this war, either in Afghanistan itself or outside Afghanistan, in Guantanamo.
These prisoners deserve to be treated in accordance with international law and the international conventions.
We believe that the international community bears an important responsibility for investigating and establishing the position as regards the human rights violations in northern Afghanistan that have been mentioned, and in particular those in the Dasht-e-Leile region which have been reported by the UN.
In reply to Mr Wurtz, who mentioned this point just now, I would say that we in this House should make a very clear request for the United Nations to carry out an investigation and to bring those guilty to justice once they have been tracked down.
Mr Wurtz, I regret that your group feels unable to sign this motion for a resolution, but you can at least vote for it.
