Mr President, I will begin by noting an interesting development in this House.
The criticism is levelled over and over again - and, I think, rightly - that we do not engage in debate.
The latest consequence of that is that we now have Barcelona, 11 September, and water.
I venture to doubt that that will add up to a debate.
I will speak, though, on the subject to which my Committee devoted its opinion, the fallout from 11 September.
Here are a couple of core theses to add to what Mr Karas, I think quite rightly, had to say: one should not overestimate it as an event, but the experience of its impetus has taught us that we are vulnerable, and the first consequence of 11 September was, and is, that politics has once again become the driving force.
It has done so whether you like it or not, as even the leading captains of industry have conceded in the meantime, but we too must be honest about the fact that it is precisely at the European level that politics is failing!
Secondly, 11 September made it even clearer that the greatest peacetime redistribution of assets in human history is jeopardising peace and also taking away market opportunities, and that right across the board, which is leading, through the failure of politics and the new situation in which we are now, to enterprises having demands made on them from the centre.
For them, 11 September might well have been an opportunity, if they had gone about it in a credible way, to do what global politics has not been able to do so far, that is, to unreservedly support human rights.
We are discovering something quite independent of 11 September - but, again, taking shape because of that event - the changes in all sectors of the market, with growth in many of them.
I am thinking of counter-terrorism, of what we are considering doing in space, and mobility.
If neither politics nor business can come up with what they should, consumers have power through their freedom of choice, and they now want enterprises to act in way that is socially, and not only environmentally, responsible.
I am therefore very glad that what we got through the Industry Committee, that is, the call to consumers to demonstrate social awareness when buying goods, is now also to be found in the main report.
What is missing, though, is the great logical conclusion to this, which we had taken through the Industry Committee, and the absence of which from the main report I regret.
We need a global Marshall Plan, without which we will have drawn the wrong conclusions from these events, and without which Barcelona, too, will be ineffective.
