Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was possible, at the Helsinki Summit, to get the impression that we really were on the way to having a common European defence policy.
The Heads of State or Government of the time set themselves ambitious objectives, and the early months made it possible to assume that these objectives would be achieved relatively speedily and within the time limits envisaged.
Looking at matters today, when the deadline is fast approaching, we can see that we are far from achieving these objectives.
The current proposal that NATO should deploy and build up a crisis intervention force makes it clear that our American friends have also lost confidence that we Europeans can actually reach the decisions that are required.
This should prompt us to make new attempts along these lines, as this European crisis intervention force is, as I see it, an essential step towards securing peace around the European Union.
Turning now to the Code of Conduct on Arms Exports, I would like to thank Mr Titley for his excellent report.
We have common rules on arms exports, we have a common code and a code of conduct, but these rules are interpreted in different ways.
We have just seen an export to one Member State prohibited, whilst the same goods were then allowed to be exported to another.
This must not be allowed to happen in future; whilst we need common rules, the way in which they are applied must also be common to all.
It will probably turn out that any code of conduct will be insufficient, and these rules will also have to be put on a legal footing.
When talking about arms exports, we are on the way to a common market in the defence field as well.
That is why I consider it important, if we are talking about shipping armaments within the European Union and the export rules unfortunately cease to be applied, for these shipments to be made easier.
All 15 EU countries, after all, form a community of values composed of democratic states, and this leads me to believe that such a thing is possible, as are substantial savings, estimated by experts at EUR 240 billion per annum.
I would like to conclude by pointing out how important democratic control is in this area.
I would therefore like there to be even greater attention paid to this debate.
If not only foreign policy, but also defence policy, are under discussion, then the matter at issue is war and peace, about which democratically elected parliaments alone can decide.
At present, this burden rests primarily on the shoulders of our counterparts in the national parliaments, but, the more this European policy develops, the more this Parliament will also have to take upon itself this crucial task.
