Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, feeding catering waste to livestock instead of indulging in waste tourism - that is my political demand.
When shall we create an authoritative and objective system of public information in the EU?
In Germany, catering waste is fed to fattening pigs under the strictest of rules.
Confidence in the processing facilities is high.
My country is the most populous in the EU; about a quarter of the entire population of the Union lives in Germany, and there is a correspondingly high output of catering waste.
There is no evidence of any epizootic disease having occurred in our country through the feeding of treated catering waste to livestock.
What are we actually doing to ourselves with this planned ban?
In my view, we have started to place pigs before people as far as food intake is concerned.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has already raised this point, and I too find it monstrous to do this in a world where people are starving every day, where slum children have to rummage about in rubbish heaps for food scraps.
What life of luxury is Europe trying to lead?
This, you may well say, is an emotional argument, but it is extremely important to me, Commissioner, that we restore some rationality to our examination of the feeding of catering waste.
It must surely be possible for us, through our own efforts and with the aid of the media, to present these issues in a rather more objective manner.
The treatment of catering waste must, of course, comply with appropriately high sterilisation standards.
That is the only way to guarantee the destruction of foot and mouth and swine-fever pathogens.
Plants supervised by the public authorities are surely the best safeguard.
Along with the numerous previous contributors to this debate, may I say thank you very much to Mrs Paulsen for the work she has done, but I also hope that we can reach a practicable solution and that we can send out long-term signals from which the feed industry, waste processors and farmers can take their lead.
