Mr President, Commissioner, we have all fought for freedom of movement - which is a good thing - along with all that has developed from it, in order that people might have the fullest possible enjoyment of it.
Here and there, alas, this freedom of movement brings with it adverse consequences, and both reports deal with this.
The first report - Mrs Angelilli's, which has to do with the compensation of victims of crime - addresses a mechanism that would help to alleviate to some extent the effects of these unwelcome emergencies, which arise from freedom of movement itself.
With that in mind, the attempt is made to lay down minimum standards across Europe, so that a citizen travelling from one State to another and sustaining some detriment, shall receive appropriate compensation under the same conditions.
I welcome the way that this, in view of post-11 September discussions, is not being focussed only on the victims of specific offences, but that the range is being extended and the victims in question are being granted aid to minimum standards.
It is also noticeable from the second report that the increase in cross-border disputes and offences is actually a consequence of freedom of movement and of the Common Market.
That is why it is so important that we should see the EU as being also a social community, one that does not deny access to the law to people who have been affected by such offences but have fewer resources at their disposal.
This step can, then, only be welcomed and supported.
In particular, I welcome the way in which Mr Santini has put these into more concrete terms and enlarged upon them, stating for example, that the states should bear court costs or that the application for legal aid should be submitted to national authorities designated for that purpose.
Alongside these, there are a plethora of other items that effect very real help for victims and for those with a claim on aid.
Both reports help us as EU citizens to have a positive experience of life in the EU, with all the principles associated with freedom of movement, which we can and must make a reality.
I congratulate both rapporteurs on these excellent reports.
Many thanks!
