Madam President, the Union treaty makes it our duty to create an area of freedom, security and justice for Europe's citizens.
The Council proposal is an important step in this direction.
Admittedly, it does nothing more than combine five already-existing programmes, but this combination creates homogeneity and clarity, which is particularly necessary in the difficult area of judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
The combination of the programmes can now serve to prevent overlapping and close loopholes.
The creation of a single framework programme will also further improve the uptake of financial resources.
Only cross-border criminal prosecution and enforcement can combat contemporary criminality, for those who commit crimes are taking extensive advantage of the freedoms of the European Union.
The EU's citizens will also feel their sense of security reinforced.
They know that there are no no-go areas for the law in its pursuit of criminals.
They will be pursued right across the EU, and in like manner.
It is in this context that the amendment on the publication on the Internet of the results of the investigations and studies cofinanced under this programme is particularly to be welcomed.
This is a further step towards the greater transparency that we need in order once again to bring the advantages of European cooperation to our citizens' attention.
Greater protection for victims is especially to be highlighted and much to be welcomed.
It is the victims who have most to endure, but who are far from receiving the best protection and care.
It must therefore be ensured that effective protection of victims' interests in criminal proceedings can be guaranteed.
It is particularly to be welcomed, in view of EU enlargement, that the Council proposal can take into account the candidate countries and involve them in projects.
What cannot, however, be accepted is the way in which the Council proposal disregards Parliament; in particular, Parliament's sovereignty in budget matters makes it necessary for it at least to be informed concerning the progress of the programme and not to get a report only as late as 2005.
The rapporteur should therefore be supported in his efforts to bring about an amendment on this point.
I would like, in conclusion, to congratulate Mr Coelho on his report, in particular on his success in achieving, as was necessary, more precise use of language.
