Mr President, I also take the view that a series of thoroughly sensible amendments has been proposed here, but I believe that Mr Corbett has, in a number of respects, thrown the baby out with the bathwater.
My first criticism concerns the matters for urgent and topical debate, something with which I have dealt for years in this House.
I have observed no lack of serious and sound work done in this area as compared with any other, and I note that assertions are being made about the matters for urgent and topical debate mainly by Members who have never done any work on them.
I am proud of the successes I achieved as a parliamentarian through motions on matters of urgency, helping to actually free people from wrongful imprisonment and eliminate serious violations of human rights within a matter of days, and I could call any number of witnesses to confirm this to you.
It is therefore my opinion that we can introduce an additional current affairs hour; I have nothing against that.
It goes without saying that we can also focus matters of urgent and topical debate more on human rights, but, as for the monthly urgent matters procedure with at least five subjects - usually between ten and fifteen are submitted, and it is only with difficulty that we can agree on five of them - that should be kept.
It has proved its worth, and the results it has achieved are among this House's truly great highlights which do it such great credit.
I wish furthermore to take a stand against all the motions that seek to limit the less widely spoken languages or the smaller groups, to make this House bureaucratic and centralised.
To take just one small example, we are no longer to be able to express our solidarity with other Members using a lesser used language when they object to their motion not being available in it.
We will have Member States which will find it difficult to get the requisite twelve Members together.
I also protest as a representative of a major language?
(The President cut the speaker off)
