Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like, very briefly, to discuss the process by which the White Paper came into being and to enumerate a number of facts that illustrate why a White Paper on youth policy is absolutely necessary.
We all know that 75 million of Europe's citizens - in which I include those of the enlarged Europe - are young people between the ages of 15 and 25, but the falling birth-rate and simultaneously rising life expectancy mean that our society is getting older.
The proportion of the EU's overall population between the ages of 65 and 90 will rise from 16% to 21% between 2000 and 2020, whilst that of 14 to 24-year-olds will be as low as 11%.
This disparity in numbers between young and older people will bring about considerable change to relationships at various levels.
We need to find answers within our own society in order to meet these challenges.
We too are called to take measures to accompany and support young people above all, in order to avoid social tensions and also adverse effects on our education systems and the labour market.
After all, the present system of European cooperation on youth issues has been stretched to its fullest extent and can no longer cope with the problems that have to be tackled.
We all know that investment in the young means investing in something that will make up the wealth of our society both today and in the future.
As my lady predecessor on the floor said, youth policy falls mainly within the competence of the Member States.
The new White Paper on youth policy is meant to point the way towards a new kind of European cooperation in the youth sphere.
It is indeed the case that the White Paper is as yet far from ideal, but it does need to be implemented as a matter of urgency in order to increase young people's involvement in the integration of Europe and in shaping our future.
The White Paper is a logical step for a forward-looking youth policy.
I would like at this point to thank Commissioner Reding for her initiative in the past, but above all for her commitment and for the way she got to grips with the task of listening to young people and involving them directly.
I see that as the right step on the right road, as youth policy, policy for young people, cannot be made without young people; it must be made with them.
Even if the White Paper is not yet perfect, it is, as I have said, a step in the right direction.
On behalf of my group, I ask you to support it when we vote tomorrow.
