Mr President, this report is intended as a contribution to the revision of the Treaties and as a contribution to a European constitution.
Draft constitutions are always politically motivated and include strategic and tactical objectives and considerations as well as aspects of power politics.
The Spinelli draft back in 1984 accepted the competences of the EU and the division of labour between the EU and the Member States, just as the Lamassoure report quite rightly does today.
And the question of competences is even more important now, especially in the area of the economic constitution and economic legislation.
If European economic policy is to be a success and the European social model is to subsist, the competence of the Union in the important areas of the internal market in the broadest sense, the four freedoms - namely financial services, competition, customs and monetary policy - must be retained and the report rightly emphasises this.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs considers that the division of competences in the report is lacking in democratic legitimacy as far as policy coordination is concerned.
We already know from experience with economic policy coordination that competence for coordination needs to rest with the Union if we are to avoid previous shortcomings.
It is not just a question of the democratic control which needs to be exercised by the European Parliament here; no, what we are trying to do as far as policy coordination is concerned - especially economic policy coordination - is to move from negative to positive policy coordination.
Positive policy coordination requires both clear democratic legitimacy and unified implementation.
The broad economic guidelines, for example, ought therefore to be set jointly by the Council and the European Parliament, based on a formal proposal from the Commission.
This would then serve as an example for other political areas in which coordination should and must be exercised.
The authority, indeed the moral obligation, to set up such a far-reaching framework in the interest of economic welfare is provided by the Principles chapter of the EC Treaty, which lists among Union activities the adoption of an economic policy based on the definition of common objectives which can and must achieve, in particular, harmonious, balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and sustainable, non-inflationary growth, as well as social protection.
In keeping with the Lisbon process, I am calling in the strongest possible terms for the European Parliament to come down in favour of policy coordination which deserves to be described as such and which makes it quite clear that policies in the general interest can only succeed if the common interest factor is also visible.
