Mr President, our old Communist friend Mr Markov has not come up with anything new either!
We are talking now about the Trentin report, which we unanimously adopted in committee, and which relates to the broad economic policy guidelines and to a decision-making process which in the first place concerns the Commission.
Parliament wishes to influence this process of coordination and opinion forming at a relatively early stage, without presenting a wish list the size of a mail-order catalogue.
However, this is not just a question of keeping ourselves busy: Article 4 of the EC Treaty specifically provides for this common economic policy, this coordinated economic and finance policy.
And, Mr Markov, that article prescribes the model as follows: "? in accordance with the principle of an open market economy with free competition".
That is our principle, and that is why - not because it is what my group wants, but because it is part of the Commission's programme - the completion of the internal market and the further liberalisation of public-sector services are a priority, as is the fact that we need to equip ourselves for competition at world level, and the fact that we need to dismantle obstacles in the Member States and to tackle the process of reform.
That brings us to the question that Mr Radwan referred to: where does the Commission's responsibility end and that of the Member States start?
Where is subsidiarity appropriate and where do we need to act?
The only answer I can give is that whatever the Commission may bring forward and whatever Parliament may agree, in the past it has been more the Council, which is an amalgamation of the 15 governments, that has acted as a brake on this motor of European development, which has now of course become even more necessary than ever with the euro coming into circulation.
That is why this debate and Parliament's decision only make sense if we specifically call on the Member States to respect their commitments and not to lag behind.
That means that in the larger Member States, in which there is an especially big backlog of reforms, national reforms will have to be tackled.
