Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your detailed reply to the question put by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, which has been considering how we can find a way of guaranteeing a free flow of information and freedom of choice for viewers in the digital era.
How can we achieve this objective?
No further debate is needed, we held our debate when we passed a resolution on the telecommunications package and, more particularly, on the framework directive.
Today, and this is why we asked the question, we wanted the Commission to tell us what it can do to help implement the resolutions we passed then.
And I am grateful because I think the Commission's statements have pointed to a constructive way forward here.
However, I should like to reiterate that we have three basic resolutions.
First, open interfaces, so-called APIs are not enough; these open interfaces need to be widely accessible, i.e. they must be interoperable.
That is the objective we decided on together in the framework directive.
Secondly, we decided that the Member States should promote the introduction of interoperable technology.
Thirdly, we decided that we had until July 2004 for this voluntary procedure.
Parliament is pushing for action in order to bring about a voluntary, user-friendly solution which also guarantees real freedom of choice and pluralism.
For that, as you announced today, Commissioner, we need the technology, the standards which meet these requirements, to be published.
There is a standard which has already been licensed by the European Telecommunications Standards Institute, which is responsible for the standards, namely MHP, which is why Parliament's demand is perfectly clear in the resolution we are voting on today.
What we want to do is promote the technology that incontrovertibly meets the requirements.
Hence the demand and the call in the resolution for the Member States to submit an action plan as quickly as possible - we are saying by the end of this year - as to how this objective can be achieved, so that we have real results by July 2004.
So, as you see - and my thanks here to all my honourable friends in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport and in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy who helped here - we refer to the resolution and voluntary implementation of this resolution, but in the time specified and for the purpose specified.
That is the point of this resolution.
We trust that we have the agreement and support of the Commission and the Member States, in the interest of our citizens.
