Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the rapporteur of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, Mrs Corbey, most warmly for her report and congratulate her on it.
She has expanded the debate on the amendment of the Packaging Directive and put it in the broader context of environmental policy.
Over and above the change to the recycling quotas, she has added consideration of environmental impact assessments to the discussion, by, among other things, drawing on life-cycle analysis.
One might say that she has thus already pre-empted the discussions on the White Paper on integrated product policy.
It is of course never wrong to give consideration, at as early a stage as possible, to methods of assessing environmental impact, for this is how more general awareness of environmental policies of this sort is created.
On the other hand, however, we must not use the Packaging Waste Directive to prescribe the outcome before we in this House have thoroughly got to grips with the issues.
This, after all, is what the White Paper on integrated product policy is about, or, in any case, that is what almost everybody on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy thought.
That is why a majority of us on the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy urged that we should vote for the removal from the report of Amendment No 16, which provides for the immediate introduction of environmental indicators for packaging.
Moreover, Amendment No 16 envisages an overall reduction of 10%.
Does this mean that the production of packaging material is to be cut back?
How is that to be achieved?
Do we intend to reduce by 10% the industrial production of goods that need to be packaged?
That too is a proposal to which we should give a wide berth.
Just a few brief words on the content of the Directive.
The new targets must be seen as ambitious, but I do believe that they are justified, from the point of view of industrial policy, in terms of their objective, which serves the European Union's environmental policy objectives.
Albeit with the reservations to which I referred earlier, we will be happy to give substantial support to Mrs Corbey's report.
