Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I too, on behalf of my group, would like to warmly welcome Mr Stockmann's report, as it is an excellent one, and one which deals with its subject very much in depth.
I speak for the majority of my group when I say that my colleague Mrs Foster, for whom I have very high regard, has this evening put forward an opinion held by a minority in our group.
The majority in my group, just as in the committee, supports the Commission proposal to unambiguously clarify the legal nature of slots and to finally make clear that trading in slots between one airline and another is illegal and will remain so.
As rights of usage, the slots belong neither to the air carriers nor to the airports, and have only an ancillary role.
They enable air space to be used efficiently, economically, and in a way that treats the environment with respect, and so my group will be voting against Mrs Foster's three amendments tomorrow, believing as we do that the Commission is very much in the right.
Secondly, I believe that the new version of the slot regulation aims at formulating the rules for the allocation of slots in a way that is more transparent and more favourable to competition.
Of course, the 'grandfather rights' of the existing airlines are to be safeguarded, but only to some extent.
We need competition, and I hope that my British colleagues will agree with me on that.
We need competition, and so we also need new slots for new air carriers, in order to better organise competition in air travel and for the passengers' benefit.
The end result is that the coordinators' roles and independence are strengthened.
This is to enhance the possibility of taking unused times from the existing airlines and allocating them to others, thus improving the efficiency with which airspace is used in an economical and environmentally friendly way.
That is the objective.
Mr President, Madam Vice-President, please let us conclude by pointing out that I hope that the Council will, under Spanish Presidency, take a significant step in June.
We have done our homework.
We have, admittedly, produced 52 amendments in committee, but they are in the interests of greater precision.
I hope that the Commission will work a miraculous transformation and support most of them.
In any case, it strikes me as important that the Council should reach a decision quickly, as we want the revised slots regulation to benefit air carriers, and we want it without delay.
Airlines have found themselves in difficulties as a result of the general economic recession and of the events of 11 September.
We believe that a revised slots regulation will help airlines, airports and passengers, and so we ask you to support the Stockmann report.
