.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgets has for some years been closely following the Commission's public relations, and I think that it has succeeded, by means of various instruments that budgetary law, thank God, puts at our disposal, in making a distinct improvement in the information policy of the Commission and of all the European institutions.
This shows us on the Committee on Budgets that we are, on the whole, definitely on the right road as far as the Commission's information policy is concerned.
At the same time, though, we also have to strike a critical balance.
Looking at the great need for public information occasioned by the introduction of the euro, being aware also of how much money the European Union made available for this purpose, and, still repeatedly reading surveys that show that many citizens feel themselves to be badly or inadequately informed or not informed at all, questions have to be asked about the effectiveness of our information policies.
We will have a great common task on our hands in the coming months and years.
We on the Committee on Budgets will also be very closely monitoring the process of accustoming the public to the fact that this European Union of ours is going to grow, that it will have more members, and that we will have new challenges to face together.
Hence the request by the Committee on Budgets - and I know that Mr Andreasen and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport will not let us down - that it is together that we should press on with this change in strategy that we began together many years ago, so that the European Union's information policy may do what it claims to do and satisfy the public demand for objective information about current problems and developments in Europe.
Everything else, I think, can adequately be dealt with via Parliament's groups and individual Members.
They, too, can safeguard Europe's diversity; I do not believe that to be a task for the Commission.
