Mr President, members of the Commission, honourable Members, as you have already heard, my homeland, Austria, has suffered damage to the tune of EUR 7 500 million.
I personally have cleaned up, evacuated and shovelled in Upper and Lower Austria, as have many of us here and thousands, literally thousands outside this House.
Together we have witnessed the material need and mental anguish caused by this disaster, which has pushed people to the brink and wiped out houses, streets and businesses.
Many only realised just how bad things were once the fire brigade, the army and the emergency services had left.
I should like on behalf of a great many people to thank the authorities, the communes, the Länder, the governments of the Member States, the European Union and the volunteers and, as the chairman of a social organisation, the Österreichisches Hilfswerk, which is one of the eight organisations distributing donor money, to thank the thousands, or rather hundreds of thousands of donors.
Civil society has proven its worth and has come up trumps.
But its job is not yet done.
The Austrian Chancellor, Dr. Schüssel, estimated yesterday that 70% of the damage has been recorded and EUR 65 - 70 million paid out directly.
The leader of the Austrian delegation, Ursula Stenzel, took the initiative of tabling a joint resolution by Austrian members, which has been included in the joint resolution by the European Parliament.
There is no need to define this disaster; it has already taken place, which is why the European Parliament is calling for emergency aid of EUR 1 billion for the flood area.
We are calling for flexibility in the aid regulation, we are calling for Structural Fund resources to be reallocated, we are calling for the national cofinancing portion to be reduced, we are calling for national limits on aid to be lifted and we are calling for emergency aid to be paid out quickly; we want specific dates, not just promises.
May I close by thanking all the honourable Members for the tone of this debate.
There has been no playing victims off against non-victims, north against south, Member States against candidate countries, budget figures against each other, projects against new plans.
It is clear from the debate that we need to act because we are all in the same boat.
It is a good example of political maturity and of a willingness to demonstrate that actions speak louder than words, to help ensure there are no delays, that action is taken in the short term and that a new approach is taken in the long term.
