Mr President, I agree with Mr Cashman.
For eight years the Russian military has been waging war on the civilian population in Chechnya.
This is the reality and we must not close our eyes to it.
That is why I should like to ask you the following question Mr President-in-Office of the Council: in the trilogue did you present and explain the list of measures, which you have just presented to us, to the Russian Foreign Minister, Mr Ivanov, in the same terms in which you have just presented them to us here?
Did you also tell Mr Ivanov about the threats you mentioned of adopting measures against Russia?
Was this really the focal point of the agenda or was it only mentioned in passing.
The fact remains that it has not yet had any effect.
It is my impression that this was not put to the Russian side in the same serious tone that you have just adopted here.
This makes us guilty of these crimes too.
We know that in Chechnya people are being abducted, killed and abused every day.
In addition, we know that Chechens are known as 'blacks' in Russia, a derogatory Russian term denoting that they are second-class citizens.
Remaining silent and looking away when civilians are being hurt and abused on a daily basis damages our credibility in the eyes of the world whenever and wherever we defend human rights.
That is why it is important for us not to believe President Putin's protestations, which bear no relation to reality and which he repeated yesterday in Weimar, that the people need to be protected from bandits and that State rule needs to be re-introduced.
This is completely unrelated to what is really happening on the ground.
We need to ensure that there is international monitoring to report on violations of human rights by the army.
In any case I would support all calls to invite President Putin and Mr Machadov here to Strasbourg in September so that the dialogue can finally begin and the guns can fall silent, and so that we can end the spiral of violence in this region.
(Applause)
