Mr President, is it anachronistic, in the face of globalisation's many menacing effects and of increasing adverse developments in labour markets, for us to call on businesses to commit themselves to core labour standards?
Given the direction the economy is increasingly taking, is it acceptable to demand social governance?
We have to do both at the same time if we want to be able to carry the people with us - consumers, workers, and managers alike.
The PPE-DE group, on behalf of which I speak, shares Mrs Gillig's basic thinking.
We attach importance to uniform labour standards, non-discriminatory practices in employment and occupation, the abolition of forced labour, the recognition of the right to collective negotiation and to freedom of association.
We do, however, prefer voluntary schemes in enterprises, provided that there is consistency in the way they are adhered to and assessed, and that they are unmistakably identifiable by means of a seal of approval.
Standards certainly need to be developed for an international system of certification.
It is our expectation that private initiatives and effective public quality control will represent an impressive contribution by the EU to giving core labour standards a proper place in the new global architecture.
We need a two-stage policy if we are to achieve sustainable development.
The ILO agreements must be ratified by all the EU Member States and by the candidate countries.
I consider the idea of a joint meeting of the ILO and Parliament to be an initiative that is absolutely deserving of support.
We will then need consensus on the order in which standards need to be achieved in the areas of social policy, commerce and the environment, and in social governance.
Secondly, third countries also need to be prevailed upon to adopt ILO model agreements.
This will hardly be achieved by means of an array of penalties, and an incentive system will work much better - for example, more financial aid for development or preferential access to markets if social kitemarks are gained through such things as a commitment not to permit child labour.
It is for this reason that my group highlights the special role of employers' associations and trades unions in promoting core labour standards, which are so important.
