Mr President, I should like to thank Mr Graça Moura for having taken so much time and trouble in his effort to pinpoint Parliament's political guidelines, which also underlie this programme, in the implementation of the programme.
For example, how does this programme give our citizens improved access to and participation in culture?
What actions involve our fellow citizens?
The huge administrative costs and the criteria for handling the programme cannot conceal the programme's original objectives, nor should they call them into question.
Having read the report, we must state, loud and clear, exactly what we expect of a European cultural policy, especially in the run up to enlargement and the forthcoming convention.
If you talk to artists today, they are all worried that culture will get buried under the convention, under the debate on subsidiarity.
I hope it does not and we shall fight to see that it does not.
How can the mechanics of the programme be improved, so that it becomes a real cultural tool which meets the requirements of artists and citizens alike?
Should the programme support the arts sector or work for the good of society?
Given the current situation, these are the questions we need to ask when we think of the future.
Needless to say, this, too, is a programme which needs to be put on a better financial footing if we are to avoid creating frustration rather than satisfaction.
I do not want to anticipate the debate on the follow-up programme post-2004, but even Mr Graça Moura addressed this point because it is already well under way at the Commission, and the report calls on us to start giving it serious thought so as to avoid leaving the field open, including at the convention, to the enemies of any form of culture policy work at EU level.
We should all remember that a European cultural policy which respects our citizens' differences and cultural traditions goes straight to the heart of the political debate.
In other words, it is the only way of giving Europe a soul.
