Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I very much welcome this debate, because since 11 September the need to fight terrorism has been cited as justification for nearly every military intervention.
This is also true of the situation in Chechnya.
A change of thinking is required.
Conflicts and terrorism cannot be resolved by military means.
I was pleased to see in yesterday's debate on the Middle East that this is also the unanimous opinion of this Parliament.
In the case of Chechnya, as in all other crisis areas, the only things that will lead to a solution to the problems are negotiations, a willingness to compromise, confidence-building, the development of civil society and the rule of law, and reconstruction.
The dialogue with Russia about these problems definitely needs to be stepped up.
We should press for the Russian Government to continue and intensify the contacts it began in November with Mr Maskhadov and other Chechens who are ready to talk.
The judicious proposals of a Council of Europe working group, in which members of the Duma are also represented, have got these initiatives for a comprehensive Russian-Chechen dialogue off the ground.
We should support this.
The human rights situation in Chechnya remains critical.
I welcome the fact that Parliament has drawn attention to these points in its compromise motion.
In my view, we should criticise the sluggish progress being made on prosecuting perpetrators of human rights offences and sentencing those who are found guilty of such crimes, despite the fact that President Putin claimed otherwise yesterday.
It is positive, however, that the Russian Government has taken the first steps towards rebuilding the country and restoring normality to everyday life.
I would refer in particular to the efforts that they have made to build up the civil administration, the judicial system and the local police force.
I do not think that it is fair for us to call into question or reject everything that the Russian side says a priori.
We need to trust both sides.
Because the only basis for being able to talk to each other at all is mutual trust.
The Commission should support this development by providing more funds.
To get an idea of what is needed we should finally implement our own decision of the year 2000 and send an ad hoc delegation to Chechnya.
