Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Myller, and also the shadow rapporteurs, especially our group's own, for the work done on this report.
I consider neither the Commission's proposal nor the report presented by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy to be worthless.
I do not, therefore, quite understand the proposal by the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party and the Group of the Greens that the proposal and the common position should be rejected in their entirety.
Another reason why I do not understand it is that, if I understand rightly, the Member States' environment ministers are not exclusively Christian Democrats but, rather, primarily Greens and also liberal Social Democrats and members of our family of parties.
To be sure, we often have to criticise and improve what the Council submits to us but, in view of this political constellation, it is somewhat problematic to say that it is all nonsense.
Despite our criticisms, we have to improve on the Council's proposal without completely rejecting it.
In particular, I would call upon us to produce some stringent wording concerning subsidies that have harmful effects on the environment.
The Council's wording strikes me as too weak.
I believe that, whenever it is said that the protection of the environment costs money, one has first to bear in mind that, of course, the destruction of the environment and its consequences cost money, and that it is even worse when the destruction of the environment is being subsidised - in other words, when money is being paid out for it.
There are possibilities there for very effective savings.
I therefore emphatically support the idea of reducing subsidies.
The Committee has now decided on 2005 as a deadline.
A lot of people have problems with that, and not only in our group.
That is why there are various proposals for compromise.
I believe, though, that we must, whatever happens, agree on an amendment that is more stringent than what the Council has decided on.
We should also not put other economic instruments, such as a fiscal reform, to one side, but should follow them through at a European level.
