Mr President, I would like to thank Mrs Malmström, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, not only for having familiarised herself with these difficult processes but also for having conducted the negotiations on the subject with the Commission with the rigour, prudence, but also the friendliness that they call for.
I believe that this result will, both for the Commission and the other institutions have a calming effect on procedures which, over and over again, have led in the short or long term to disputes that might well have been unnecessary.
For us, this result makes it possible to make debate on the Commission's annual work programme more political, getting away from listing individual projects somewhat in the manner of a book-keeper, indeed, it makes it possible for us to set out at the start of the year, what we see as the European Union's most important projects in the coming year.
One might say that this procedure and the preparation for it make this annual work programme interactive.
I believe that this represents a move forward in terms of the reliability and predictability of the processes we are considering.
As Mrs Malmström has rightly emphasised, this result also makes demands of us ourselves, for we really must refrain from constantly repeating what we wanted already, and must instead actually limit our deliberations to a period of one year.
It is also necessary for us to become more closely involved than before in the actual planning of the half-year presidencies, which may go against our own priorities.
Involvement in the preparation of the legislative programme is important to us also because we still do not possess the right of initiative in the European legislative process.
On that, let me say something about my personal assessment of the position.
Our spontaneous reaction when the Commission's sole right of initiative is called into question is always a cool one.
Above all, the Commission itself reacts understandably with great reserve on that point.
Despite that, we must of course consider whether we should raise the issue anew, perhaps within the framework of the Convention's discussions, for it is the case that the European Union's great acquis communautaire, consisting of some 10 000 instruments, can be amended only on the Commission's proposal.
I will say here that I doubt whether that satisfies the requirements of a democracy.
To that extent the decision we are drawing up today, is also a crutch, helping Parliament to move towards enhanced involvement in initiatives.
