Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I, too congratulate you, Madam President, on your new position.
I am glad that we are able to welcome another woman to the podium.
I was looking forward to speaking on my report on the implementation of the first phase of the Community action programme Leonardo da Vinci, but I received this morning a piece of news which obliges me to go about this differently.
According to this information, the veracity of which I have no reason to doubt, the Commission has since 31 August 2001 been in possession of a report which, and I quote, indicates 'possible irregularities and possible professional wrongdoing within the Commission' in the implementation of the first phase of Leonardo.
According to this report, both OLAF, the anti-fraud office, and also the Commission are apparently either carrying out an investigation or have reopened the investigation that was carried out in 1999-2000.
A representative of the Commission confirmed to me by telephone a couple of hours ago the existence of such a report on that subject.
I could not contact OLAF's director and so have been unable to verify what that authority has been doing.
As, then, there are obviously significant items of information indicating deficiencies in this programme over and above those already brought to light, my report has, one might say, ceased to have a procedural basis.
On behalf of the PPE group, to which I belong, I therefore ask that today's debate and vote be cancelled and that the report be referred back to the competent committee, so that I can gather appropriate information and present a report containing all documents and items of information that there actually are on the subject.
I would, though, like to ask the Commissioner present to enlighten this House as to why the Commission, despite my having had a meeting with a Commission representative only yesterday, did not inform me or the honourable Members of this House about this report.
I beg to observe that the withholding of reports and items of information as significant as this does not honour the principle of trustful cooperation between Parliament and the Commission, and that I personally am very disappointed by this course of action.
(The matter was referred back to the committee responsible)
