Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, for me the year 2002 is one of the most decisive and historically significant years in the development of the European Union.
As the European Parliament, we want to make a full and complete contribution to peaceful enlargement.
Negotiations of individual chapters are making good progress in many fields and the Council presidency is really making every effort to get formal negotiations with the candidate countries concluded by the end of the year.
The agricultural chapter is one of the biggest topics for negotiation and along with regional policy and budget matters certainly one of the most difficult areas.
For me, one of the most important points is still the much criticised question of phasing-in the countries seeking accession.
But I fully support the Commission proposal concerning phasing-in.
Particular attention also needs to be paid to ensuring that the acquis communautaire is actually transposed into practice.
Only products that satisfy the same requirements as those of the EU Fifteen must be allowed on to the internal market.
The quota system must be maintained as an important instrument of control for that.
I would also like to stress how deplorable it is that such slow progress is being made with setting up Sapard payment agencies.
So far, they have been set up in only seven candidate countries and regrettably only a small amount of the funding has been disbursed since Sapard was implemented in the 2000 financial year.
We must do more to encourage the new Member States to create the administrative conditions necessary for adequate financial management for decentral administration without losing sight of the targeted nature of the aids.
On the other hand, I am glad that the Commission is aware of the difficult situation in the border regions and is investigating the socio-economic situation in those regions.
I personally welcome that very much and would like to say in conclusion that a common Europe can only come about through intensive cooperation and that the European model of agricultural policy must also be safeguarded for the future.
