Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the democratic deficit in Europe is being presented as the main problem.
It is an unfortunate fact that the competences ceded by the national parliaments to Europe have not all as yet arrived at the European Parliament, the only European institution to be legitimised by elections.
Responsibility for this must be borne by all the Member States that have to date refused to pass on these competences to the co-legislator, Parliament, in the form of codecision in the legislative sphere.
The governments have thus gained for themselves at European level legislative and executive powers that would have been inconceivable in their national legal system.
That is the real scandal of the democratic deficit in Europe.
Are we then to commend the Heads of State and Government for, at the Nice Summit, setting out relations between the European Parliament and the national parliaments as being one of the four topics for the forthcoming Convention and the new Intergovernmental Conference?
That would be to put off the governments' lack of capacity and willingness for yet another day.
This is the fundamental misunderstanding that Mr Berthu has described in his minority opinion.
Parliament must indeed seek to stand shoulder to shoulder with the national parliaments in order together to compel the governments to act in a democratic way.
Parliament's two great groups are very much as one in this demand, and I am grateful to our group's Mr Gil Robles for his contribution to the Napolitano report, and to our rapporteur for his Amendment No 21.
These show the right way ahead into the future.
That which is feasible and appropriate must be done at every level.
The national parliaments can and must monitor their national governments better and more effectively than before.
We wish to encourage them to do so, both as regards the governments' conduct when European legislation is drafted in Council and in terms of the financial management and monitoring of funds granted by the EU.
The European Parliament must monitor legislation at European level and play a part in shaping it.
In conclusion, I can only say that we are grateful for the report and hope that it will also be taken seriously by the Convention.
