Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank Mr Olsson most warmly for taking upon himself the very difficult task of drafting this report.
Ever since the first case of BSE occurred, Parliament has always very closely observed and discussed the steps taken at both European and national level to deal with the crisis.
It is important for us, the farmers right across Europe, that all possible steps should be taken to avoid future food crises.
The precautionary principle, already mentioned by many of my fellow Members, must be adhered to, and the latest medical findings must be taken into account.
One difficulty that has become apparent is that of the marked divergences between Member States in the way they implement EU regulations and the partial absence of details as to how and to what extent Community legislation is being transposed.
I am in good company when I say that, above all, though, much firmer measures must be taken in respect of non-compliance, including the removal of hazardous material.
I do not believe that it is sensible to provide for the reduction to 24 months of the age at which tests are carried out.
I think this would give rise to unjustifiable costs.
Tests should continue to be carried out at 30 months in order to obtain secure results.
I therefore also support those amendments that provide for this.
As I have already said, the greatest protection is offered by proper slaughtering and removal of hazardous material.
Let me make another observation.
I really would like to make the point that the common agricultural policy surely already does justice to the objective of food safety even now.
In my opinion, there is no absolute link between the continuing handling of BSE and the treatment of food leftovers.
The BSE crisis was, as we know, triggered by the production of animal meal under improper conditions and the equally improper feeding of it to ruminants.
The problems of recycling should be dealt with in another report.
A second consideration to which we should give attention is that the subject of animals, which are actually omnivorous, should be dealt with elsewhere, in a report of its own and not in this report, which is actually only on the ongoing handling of BSE in ruminants.
