Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament is using the Olsson report not only to take up a position on the current BSE situation, but also, in particular, to look into the future.
Our objective is to guarantee food safety, and we will not have reached it as long as our knowledge of this disease is incomplete.
That is why I particularly support the demand for the resources needed for continued research into TSE diseases to be made available by the Commission.
We need to learn more about these diseases and epidemics, which were previously unknown, in order to be able to combat them more effectively.
Society's hysteria, which was particularly marked in Germany, is diminishing.
People are going back to eating meat, and are again buying it cheaply.
There is a need for clarity about who, in the European Union, is to bear the costs of additional impositions such as tests and investigations, and conditions for this must be the same from one Member State to another.
We must, in the same way, see to it that regulations are transposed in the same way in every Member State.
The provisions of the TSE Regulation need to be stringently applied, with tough penalties imposed for disregarding or fraudulently evading them, not only as regards the production and utilisation of animal feeds but also tests, regulations on slaughtering and the disposal of hazardous material.
Animal feed is the target of criticism as much as ever and will continue to be so until we have open declaration and can at last check to ensure that only what is listed on the container is actually in it.
We cannot carry on being driven by fear of fraud, improper treatment and erroneous identification to destroy valuable substances and, apart from that, to import materials or feed from overseas, for example, where we have no influence on their production and composition.
That is why I put working towards openness, ease of control, and truthfulness right at the top of the list, for only by them will we achieve credibility and trustworthiness.
Until that day, the ban on feeding omnivores with meat and bone meal will have to stay in place.
It follows from this, though, that the Commission urgently needs to develop innovative methods of disposal and recycling, such as, for example, the production of biodiesel from tallow or fats.
It must at least be made clear that unprocessed offal, waste water, fat and tallow still have to be treated.
We intend that this report should promote greater awareness and urge the Member States to be unstinting in their efforts to beat this disease.
