Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I would like to focus my attention on the agencies.
It is there that we urgently need more efficient and transparent monitoring and controls.
I say that not only because the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has responsibility for four of the agencies, but also in view of the fact that the number of agencies is constantly increasing.
Today there are eleven agencies, but there will soon be 14 of them, for, as you will be aware, we will also have agencies for the safety of food, and for safety in travel by air and sea, once the issue is resolved of where they are to be based.
As already mentioned, our committee is responsible for four agencies, in Dublin, Bilbao, Thessaloniki and Turin, and we have, in principle, no problems with them, but this does not alter the fact that there is a fundamental problem with Parliament having only one discharge procedure for four agencies.
Yes, the agencies do now have their own rapporteur on the Committee on Budgets, and Mr Kuckelkorn has already achieved a great deal.
Nonetheless, though, we do need all the agencies to be treated on an equal basis, and so, today, I call on the Commission to draw up proposals to put all the agencies on an equal footing in the discharge procedure.
To do this we must, above all, make appropriate changes to their legal basis, without which the future will find us still incapable of auditing the agencies satisfactorily when the Budget comes round, and that cannot be in anybody's interest.
Cooperation between the committees of this House also needs to be improved.
The guidelines for the agencies drawn up in 1998 should therefore be examined from four angles: with a view to ensuring appropriate control machinery in the specialised committees and transparency in the Budget procedure, reinforcing the requirement for mutual information and clear demarcation of competences between the committees involved.
Our committee will be drawing up proposals in relation to this.
Let me, in conclusion, again warmly thank Mr McCartin and Mr Staes for their support so far in this regard.
