Mr President, I would like first like to congratulate the rapporteur on taking the Commission proposal, which was a good one, and making it even better.
I also, of course, welcome Commissioner De Palacio to the House.
I nevertheless believe that some of us, myself included, were right to table a number of amendments.
The plethora of often diverse rules and regulations certainly means that the lot of HGV drivers - mainly men and rarely women - can hardly be called an easy one.
It must not, though, be forgotten that it is at the weekends that many members of the public want to have a bit more peace and quiet, and that it is at that same time that drivers want to go on trips.
Hence this conflict.
I therefore think that there should be mutual solidarity between the population in general, including the haulage business, and the overwhelming majority of the public involved.
The rapporteur took the view that such solidarity could be better organised.
He was right, but planning for it is often difficult.
In my opinion, the transport industry could certainly plan convoys better if it knew about the weekend bans so that the result would not, as is often at present the case, be these periods waiting at borders, which are admittedly unpleasant.
So better information would make that improvement possible - and the Commission also has a few things planned, which the rapporteur supports.
Railways, too, certainly offer a possible alternative to some degree.
To sum up, I think there is a lot to be said in favour of leaving the status quo as it is.
There is also much to be said for doing so without coming up with a specific rule on the subject.
That is also the thinking behind some of the amendments that have been tabled.
I would nonetheless like to take this opportunity of reiterating in the clearest possible terms that the Group on whose behalf I am now speaking supports the rapporteur's basic line wholesale.
What results we achieve are a matter for democracy and for tomorrow's vote.
In any case, the rapporteur has done a good job.
