Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by not only thanking the rapporteur for her dedicated work, but also the Vice-President of the Commission for this ambitious proposal.
I would like to express my gratitude to you, Commissioner, for having proposed binding targets, as I believe this directive to be of less value without them.
It is true that we cannot expect too much of the directive.
It will not resolve the whole climate problem for us, nor will it sort out all the difficulties we have with energy, but it has contributions to make to the security of energy supply and to climate protection, and it can open up new sources of income for agriculture.
Now for the misgivings, which are as follows.
One is that intensive farming will be promoted.
Yes, of course there is such a thing as intensive farming, but there is also extensive farming, and I have never come across a refinery producing conventional fuels on an extensive basis.
That is always about intensive and localised pollution of the environment.
Mention has been made of the life cycle of biofuels and the pollution of the environment involved in their manufacture.
Who is calculating the life cycle of conventional fuels?
We must also take other factors into consideration, such as the transport from the oil-producing regions to Europe, and possible calamities such as that which happened to the tanker Erika.
If the Erika had been carrying biodiesel, the environment would have been unscathed.
Those who enumerate the drawbacks of biofuels should also mention those of conventional fuels.
I believe in technology, and I believe in innovation.
If we create a clear framework for them, biofuels in Europe will be a great deal more efficient, more cost-effective and also much more environmentally friendly.
All we have to do is give them that framework.
I therefore ask the House to support Amendments Nos 25 and 33 in particular, which give pride of place to eco-efficiency and make it a criterion in the directive.
How I vote on Thursday, and whether or not I agree to a compromise with the Council, will be determined by whether amendments unanimously adopted in committee, such as Nos 25 and 33, are actually taken on board.
If they are not, then I cannot vote for a compromise at First Reading stage.
