Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'mid-term review' in connection with Agenda 2000 is one of the crucial concepts in current political discussion across Europe.
Every one of us has his own personal preferences when it comes to this important topic, as both the discussions in the Agriculture Committee and the number of amendments submitted bear witness.
Both rapporteurs deserve a great deal of gratitude for having made very serious attempts at incorporating in their reports, as much as possible, the well-founded concerns of Members of this House.
As a basis for the balance sheet, the mid-term review must be an option for the future; in other words, Agenda 2000 must be a valid and binding framework up to 2006.
It is on this basis that the common agricultural policy must be developed further.
It is quite clear that the situation in a globalised world market means that all tendencies towards regionalisation have to be rejected.
Our common agricultural policy has to be planned on a long-term basis and capable of being worked out by anyone, which means that we must not lose sight of the objective of using streamlining as a means of dismantling bureaucracy.
The production types society desires are, above all, to be achieved more by incentives and not so much by commands and prohibitions.
One major question is that of how we care for rural areas and keep them alive.
The efficient promotion of young farmers is indispensable in this.
We also want the second pillar to be strengthened, but what, in the area of agriculture, is meant by this?
The objective must be to make clear that environmentally friendly services and maintenance of the countryside do not 'cost nothing', but maintain an accountable market value.
Reliability and competitiveness for the farmers and hence greater freedom for their business operations when their performance is considered as a whole is the first objective.
First-rate product quality, no matter what the production type, and the required income from it, is the second.
Monitored safety right along the production chain, Commissioner, is our third objective in further development of the common agricultural policy, and it is an indispensable one.
