Mr President, I speak in my capacity as draftsman of the opinion on the European Climate Change Programme.
Commissioner Nielson, I was astonished by the self-satisfaction you radiated during your contribution on the outcome of Johannesburg.
There is little evidence to justify it, and your abuse of the press is of no use and makes no difference.
I wish to speak on the Climate Change Programme, and with specific reference to the ten of its forty-two points that are to be implemented over the coming two years.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy has welcomed this programme as a whole, as we take the view that it is not enough for measures to be taken by the Member States alone.
There can, though, be no doubt that responsibility for adherence to the climate change objectives rests primarily with the states that signed the Kyoto Protocol, that is, with the Member States of the European Union, that burden sharing is a voluntary agreement within the European Union, and that the measures proposed by the Commission and supported by Parliament must not be allowed to frustrate these objectives.
That is why the Committee on Industry takes the view that what matters in evaluating the measures is that the most efficient and cost-effective should be taken first.
It is, then, about not providing just for any old measures that cost a lot of money and put the European Union's industrial competitiveness at risk, but rather about making a start where everything can be put into effect as quickly as possible.
There are, as yet, few proposals on how to go about this.
Two have been received, one on biofuels, which are the right thing but expensive, and another on emissions trading, on which latter subject the Committee on Industry has made an emphatic call for a voluntary pilot stage up to 2008, and for such trading not to be enforced before that date.
It is my belief that this objective and these considerations have to be looked at from the point of view of industry policy.
I have been preceded on the floor by four speakers from the Scandinavian states.
I believe it to be the common responsibility of us all not to lose sight of our industrial policy objectives and our economy's competitiveness, no matter how necessary it is that we support to the utmost a sensible European climate change programme.
