Mr President, I am speaking today as the representative of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, which has had to deal with questions of competence from a very early stage, but has not, unfortunately, been sufficiently involved in the latest.
I see that the report proposes that a special report on this matter be drawn up, and I consider this a very good thing, as these questions are not actually adequately dealt with in the report itself.
I would like to take this opportunity to clarify again the position of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, and then perhaps a place might be found for it when this special report is prepared.
I consider it most important that we should not be waiting too long for it, as, if these questions are not resolved while we prepare for the new constitution, it will, I think, be very hard for those citizens who identify with the regions and local authorities to accept this constitution as being their own.
I would like to point out that most EU legislation does not only touch on national competences and national law, but has a direct effect on local rights.
We see this in the area of public services, we see it in the economy as a whole, we see it when it comes to tendering, and so on and so forth.
That is why we need to build in an early warning system.
We have put forward two basic suggestions about this.
One is that all laws should be developed in line with certain principles that would apply across the board, ranging from the principle of subsidiarity to that of partnership.
The other aims to involve regional and local authorities as early as the preparatory stage of legislative processes, that alone being the guarantee that their standpoints will be taken into account with all the others, something which even national representatives will often not have done at the end of the legislative process.
My request to the rapporteur is that, in future, we should carry on working on this issue with the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, and keep this in mind when we do so.
