Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, we are dealing here with a struggle for existence between two peoples.
That is very much how it appears from their own subjective point of view.
It is a struggle for existence in which neither side exactly has the benefit of good political leadership.
Given that situation and the fact that emotions are running so high, it would be wrong to try and establish how one action or another started.
Anyone familiar with the more modern or more ancient history of the Holy Land knows that he who cast the first stone is impossible to find!
For that reason we should not be stirring up fresh emotions but rather trying to inspire trust, so that the peoples there can find some peace and thus be able to talk to each other again.
So it is extraordinarily important for us not to throw oil on the fire.
That is why I would like to thank you all for coming here today and for the meeting being held in Madrid tomorrow.
If the European Union, the United States of America, Russia and the United Nations can reach a joint position worked out by their most high-level foreign policy representatives and jointly put this over to both parties, then for the first time there will be a chance of the seriousness of the situation being appreciated by both sides.
Above all, there is a credibility factor, because just as each party has a credibility gap on one side or the other, there is a collective credibility here.
We should take advantage of that.
Credibility that we are in a position to give security guarantees for a state of Israel and a Palestinian state, that we are in a position to take onboard the proposals of the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, including the recognition of the state of Israel by the Arab states, and on this basis to establish the credibility of the idea that it is now time to withdraw and to refrain from terrorism, which is a condition for entering into concrete negotiations.
We have got our own concrete interest here, not just a general interest in peace and human rights.
Because of our close geographical proximity we are interested in the anti-terrorism coalition not collapsing and in a new fundamentalism not being used as an excuse, and we have an interest in our Mediterranean policy making successful progress under the Barcelona Process.
We should therefore seek to ensure that Mr Solana, Mr Patten and the Presidency should not travel alone to Jerusalem with Vice-President Powell travelling there alone eight days later.
Please try to ensure tomorrow that you will go there together.
That would send a message from the world community to the warring parties as a way out of this appalling situation.
I wish you all every success tomorrow.
