.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur has explained the position as regards the three Communities and the European Union.
This subject is particularly problematic when it comes to foreign policy.
For example, in international organisations, in the FAO, we have full membership for one of the Communities, and a seat and a vote on United Nations bodies, but this does not apply across the entire foreign policy spectrum.
Let us consider in particular the changes that have taken place on the international scene over the last three years, with Mr Solana taking office in 1999, which represented a political step change in European foreign policy, the introduction of the euro on 1 January 1999 and the objective of a common foreign and security policy by 2003.
These are ambitious targets which, however, are no longer rooted in the legal basis provided by the treaties.
Today, Articles 24 and 38 provide a legal basis for concluding agreements, but they make one of the Communities or the Member States as such responsible.
And this House also needs to be aware that agreements are entered into at present without Parliament having a chance to approve them beforehand.
Budgetary commitments are made in international agreements which then have to be honoured by Parliament at a later stage because of our particular role.
That is why I believe that this issue of the legal personality of the EU needs to be put on the agenda of the Convention again.
We need this legal personality in order for the European Union to make a stronger contribution to the United Nations, for example, especially following the events of 11 September.
This is in addition to the role of the Member States and is no substitute for individual Member States' membership of the United Nations, but it would give our foreign policy a higher profile, it would increase our scope for action and above all be more transparent to the public.
That is the goal that we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy would like to see included in the discussions of the Convention.
