Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, compromises are often the only things to come out of difficult situations.
I warmly thank Mrs Paulsen for her commitment and for her staying power during the quest for the workable compromise that we eventually found and which, taking all things into account, we find satisfactory.
We also recommend approval of the joint draft.
I would like to use the speaking time available to me today to make it abundantly clear that I did not vote for this compromise immediately and with any show of enthusiasm.
The reason for this is that there is one item on which we are putting off a decision and entrusting the Commission with a mission the outcome of which is open.
I refer, Commissioner, to the recycling of food waste, an issue which I see as being far from being resolved once and for all.
The simple fact that something is intended for human consumption but is left over because nobody wants or is able to eat it, is a very long way from making it special category waste, with all the ensuing consequences for its treatment and disposal.
Mr Goodwill has indeed referred to the many problems involved in disposal.
Food waste, however, also represents valuable nutrients, which, as proved by examples in Germany and Austria, can become good feedingstuffs for animals when turned into swill and collected in accordance with the best organisational, technical and hygienic standards.
We are very well aware that food waste can transmit diseases, some of them epidemics, from one animal to another, and that is why it needs the best possible preparation in accordance with the high standards facilitated by technology.
That is why a general ban on the use of food waste as feed cannot be justified, as there are no rules on how such remnants should finally be disposed of.
When it is cleared away from the table, does the meal on the plate suddenly become special category waste?
We are calling for a general ban on the feeding of food waste to animals only until evidence is supplied that it is properly prepared.
This compromise has, then, not finally removed this topic from the agenda.
It is now for the Commission to present a proposal on the recycling of food waste by the end of 2004.
This is a demand, to which I add the request that the existing options for swill preparation also be taken into account.
Some small and medium-sized enterprises, family firms and farms have invested a great deal in this.
There must above all be no loophole resulting from the initial enactment of a ban, followed some time later by the handing down of another authorisation, so that time elapses without any decision being taken.
Enterprises need guarantees in order to plan ahead.
Animal feed in the European Union must be safe and reliable for animals and humans.
