Mr President, the use of fish meal and fish oil in aquaculture has increased considerably over recent years, mainly because aquaculture per se has increased considerably.
According to figures from the international association of fish meal and fish oil manufacturers, 10% of fish meal and 16% of fish oil were used in aquaculture in 1990.
By 2000, these figures had risen to 35% for fish meal and 60% for fish oil and we may safely assume that this growth will continue.
Danish landings processed into fish meal and fish oil total between 1 and 1.5 million tonnes of fish a year.
The main species are sandeel at 60%, sprats at around 20%, Norway pout at around 6% and blue whiting, again at around 6%.
All these stocks are managed with TACs and quotas based on scientific reports from the ICES.
The ICES evaluates the state of the most important commercially exploited fish stocks every year.
These evaluations show that by-catches of table fish by industrial fisheries are now very small and that, as a result, there is little effect on the development of stocks of table fish.
Before 1996, industrial fisheries in the North Sea, the Skagerrak and the Kattegat were still taking by-catches of herring, whiting and haddock.
In 1996, the Community introduced by-catch rules and a comprehensive monitoring and control system and, since then, by-catches really have fallen massively and no longer present any risk to table fish.
The working party within the ICES on the repercussions of fishing on ecosystems has also evaluated the indirect impact of the large quantities caught by industrial fisheries on the marine food chain and has found no evidence that catches of species used industrially limit the productivity of table fish stocks.
As far as fisheries of blue whiting are concerned, the ICES has warned that there may be fairly large by-catches of juveniles of the same species.
We have therefore already written to the ICES asking for scientific advice on how these by-catches can be avoided in future.
