Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, five years ago, in 1997, the Rio + 5 meeting took place in New York.
Unfortunately, the delegation representing the European Parliament on that occasion was very small.
I was honoured to be one of its members.
At the time, the developing countries went as far as to push for the term "sustainable development" to be omitted from the final declaration and merely for the phrase "sustainable economic growth" to be used instead.
I understand this position in some ways, because poverty is of course the key issue for the developing countries.
When we talk about environmental protection, what we say sometimes lacks credibility.
Nonetheless, as the EU, we should keep both aspects - economic and social development, but also environmental protection - in mind, for they are of course connected.
For example, the World Bank calculates that if we fail to act on the issue of climate protection, there will be a 1% - 2% drop in GDP in the industrialised countries in the coming years as a result of climate change, but a 10% fall in GDP in the developing countries.
This makes it clear that the environment and social and economic development cannot be played off against each other, but are inter-linked.
However - and the developing countries are right in this respect - we must demonstrate that it is possible to organise economic growth and prosperity without doing so at the expense of the environment.
In the climate process, for example, we must thus reduce our own emissions before we can impose any obligations on the developing countries.
I therefore believe that the time has come to practise what we have always preached and actually implement, in the European Union, the measures which we have consistently called for in our resolutions.
There is a great deal of room to criticise the Commission's proposals, for example on emissions trading, and they can certainly be improved upon, but we must pursue this basic approach.
We must now act locally if we are to convince the developing countries that sustainable development is possible.
