Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are on the verge of a really historic round of accessions.
The European House can and will be extended eastwards.
At the same time, a further southwards expansion will enrich the European Union with two beautiful and culturally valuable island states, Malta and Cyprus.
It will not surprise you, however, if I now discuss one of these two states, namely Cyprus.
Cyprus is the candidate country that has made the most progress in adapting to the acquis communautaire.
That has already been pointed out.
We can therefore safely assume that Cyprus will be included in the first round of accessions and that the next European elections will also take place in Cyprus.
The question is: will all Cypriots, Greek and Turkish Cypriots alike, be able to take part in those elections?
In other words, will the division of the island, which is contrary to international law, be overcome prior to accession?
We want it to be.
We hope it will be.
It really is time that Europe's last divided capital at last became a living capital again and that Cypriots of both ethnic groups could live together in Cyprus in peace.
I very much hope, as the President-in-Office of the Council has also made clear, that a political solution will be found by October at the latest.
The fact that direct negotiations are now taking place for the first time in many years shows that the accession process is having the catalytic effect we hoped for.
I also hope that Turkey, which is also a candidate country, understands that a solution for Cyprus is very much in Turkey's interest and that Denktash cannot insist on a two state model.
It is in Europe's as well as Cyprus' interest that the solution should result in a state that is capable of acting and taking decisions at international and European level.
Cyprus must speak with one voice.
If such a solution is not achieved by October, then we must try to ensure that Cyprus' accession or membership acts as a catalyst for a solution, because the overwhelming majority of Turkish Cypriots want to belong to the European Union and they also want to be able to live in a free Cyprus after accession.
