Mr President, I thank you for giving me an opportunity at the end of the debate to express my gratitude for the way it has gone.
It has been a very lively debate, characterised by emotion and level-headedness, and touching on various points.
For that I am very grateful to the Members of this House who have spoken.
I am grateful to Mrs Flemming for making me aware of what Leonardo da Vinci said, and I have been constantly trying to think up points of similarity between him and Mr Liikanen, who, when he responds, will perhaps astonish us by telling us that the two of them have much in common and that he, in the depths of his heart, actually has great sympathy with Parliament's proposal.
I am very grateful to all the Members who have supported me and a similar number of whom will, I hope, support the proposals when we vote at noon today.
Should cosmetic amendments - and 'cosmetic' is the appropriate word - be necessary, I am convinced that we will have to make them in the course of the conciliation procedure.
I would like to briefly address the points made by Mr Nobilia and, at the end, Mrs Jackson.
I have to tell Mrs Jackson that I could not withdraw the amendments even if I wanted to, because the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy had adopted them with 44 votes in their favour.
It has therefore now become the Committee's position and not just my own, and I have to make a true and faithful report of that to Parliament.
I would like to say in addition that I am a lawyer rather than a natural scientist, and so I have done something very simple.
I have borrowed the position of the Scientific Committee on Cosmetology, composed of European Union scientists, who have established that 26 substances result in allergic reactions, 13 of them to a severe degree.
That labels should indicate the presence of these substances I find the most utterly obvious thing in the world.
We have labels for nuts in chocolate and everything else for people who suffer from allergies, and we have to have labels for this as well.
The aromatic oils industry having belatedly woken up to this, I can well understand why, three days before the vote, it was trying to influence us.
I do not want to ban its products, but I do want the substances listed, in one language rather than in eleven, and with their chemical names, in the list of ingredients, which is, incidentally, what the Scientific Committee on Cosmetics proposed.
It is my conviction that we owe that to the European Union's consumers.
