Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, right at the beginning of my contribution to the debate, I would like to remind you that Parliament will not only have to approve the enlargement treaties with each country in turn, but also, in exactly the same way, the relevant transfers of funds in accordance with Article 25 of the interinstitutional agreement, with an absolute majority of members and three-quarters of the votes cast, and so it is a good thing that both the Commission and the Council have involved Parliament in the negotiations from an early stage.
So what are we doing now?
For a start, toiling through the mid-term review, as decided on in Berlin under the German Presidency of the Council.
Secondly, setting in motion a further development of Community policies for the post-2006 period, ever bearing in mind that eastward enlargement and the world trade round are running in parallel.
Let me say loud and clear that over-ambition will endanger the timetable for enlargement.
I would also like to make it clear that I consider the current Commission proposals, for example in the area of agricultural policy, to represent a responsible approach to budgeting.
We certainly also have to discuss, in the area of structural policies, how we can develop plans for adapting the Structural Funds.
I will go on record as agreeing with Mr Walter.
We will also have to discuss this if we have special provisions for the Cohesion Fund.
Would these apply up to 2006 or would they be laid down for a further period from 2006 onwards?
The devil is trying to hide in the detail here.
Let us not deceive ourselves; we will also have to ask whether the deficient implementation of pre-accession aid to date is the litmus test for the candidates' ability to transpose regulations and their suitability for accession, or whether we have ourselves complicated matters to such an extent that nobody can cope any more.
So I hope that the Convention comes up with the conclusive results that we will need on the institutions' capacity for action, and on the concentration of competences.
Let me add that I personally have doubts as to whether what we are currently discussing in relation to capacity for action and the rules governing languages will really be the final solution.
Above all, there is one thing we must pay attention to: We need solutions that are capable of gaining a majority, that will not only be adopted in parliamentary bodies, but will meet with public approval in both the old and the new Member States of the EU.
With that in mind, let us go to work together!
