Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, large numbers of Europeans from my country like to holiday in Tunisia, where they find beautiful beaches, a beautiful landscape and a different culture and where, thanks to the security precautions taken in Tunisia, they feel safe.
Nonetheless, we cannot overlook and we are deeply saddened by the repeated violation of human rights in Tunisia, the most recent case being the sentence passed on Hamma Hammami and his colleagues.
These human rights violations were really not necessary, not in a country like Tunisia.
The type of trial, the procedures surrounding the trial and the argument which Tunisia keeps on using, that democracy is being established, that slow progress is being made is, more is the pity, just not true.
Or the steps, the progress being made, is so small as to be indiscernible.
I therefore take the view that the current agreement should also be used for dialogue on this issue.
I do not see this sort of agreement as a futile endeavour; on the contrary, agreements such as these with countries such as Tunisia give us the opportunity to ensure that the human rights issue is a subject of serious dialogue.
I also take the view that human rights organisations, non-governmental organisations, should be more closely involved in the European Union's support instruments, especially as far as the MEDA Democracy programme is concerned.
I have said before both on several occasions in this House and in conversation with Tunisian colleagues, and I shall say it again: the important and legitimate fight against fundamentalism and, more importantly, against potential terrorism, cannot be fought, let alone won if it is paid for by violating human rights.
Human rights violations will not give the country greater security; on the contrary, all they will do is jeopardise the security of the country in the long term, and that is something which neither we nor Tunisia wants.
I therefore call once again on Tunisia to start practising its professed faith in human rights at long last.
