Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our delegation to the EU-Armenia, EU-Azerbaijan and EU-Georgia Parliamentary Cooperation Committees is most grateful to the Committee on Foreign Affairs for enabling us, with Mr Gahrton's report, to focus in more detail on the South Caucasus region in this debate today.
This region on Europe's periphery draws on a wealth of cultural and Christian traditions.
It is Europe's gateway to Asia.
With the troika initiative and the visit to South Caucasus, the European Union has sent out encouraging signals, but things are moving far too slowly.
What is especially alarming, as far as south-east Europe is concerned, is that Russia suspects that al-Qaeda fighters may have taken refuge in Georgia and has announced that it will expand its action throughout Georgia.
Georgia, on the other hand, is hoping for support from the US, which is already responding.
But where does this leave Europe?
We have already discussed the aftermath of 11 September in the European Parliament in Strasbourg and expressed concerns about the difficulties which might arise if the situation in the region escalates.
Unfortunately, it seems that our concerns are justified, for events have now taken a truly dramatic turn.
In recent centuries, South Caucasus has constantly been riven by conflict.
Surely, in 2002, it must be possible to stabilise these regions at last and give the people there a future and the chance to live their lives in peace and with some measure of lasting prosperity in their home territories.
All three countries are striving to establish democratic structures and assert their independence from their over-mighty neighbours.
Yet if we consider that Russian troops are still present in two of these countries, and that while Azerbaijan has been liberated, one third of its territory is effectively out-of-bounds across Armenia, these are issues which are not only of concern to the local population, but could also unleash a new wave of aggression.
I therefore address my comments to the Commissioner in particular: oil could undoubtedly become a key issue here, and I wish that as well as America and Russia asserting their interests, the Europeans - in the countries which still count as Europe - would not only take action but would also ensure that stable development takes place in these countries.
After all, they are trying to establish democracies, but it is a difficult process.
If corruption and crime gain the upper hand here, life for ordinary people will become intolerable.
I think that as Europeans, we face an enormous task: to respond as quickly as we can and do our utmost to play a positive role in this conflict in order to give these countries a future.
