Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report focuses principally on public health and food safety.
Feeding with infective animal meals or fats is still regarded as the principal trigger for BSE.
It is irresponsible, in view of the experience we had of poor adherence to the ban on feeding ruminants with animal meal, to think at present in terms of lifting the general EU-wide ban on it.
Moreover, consumers would find it incomprehensible.
All animal meals still kept in stock, as well as feed containing them, must be destroyed without delay in order to prevent future cross-contamination of feedingstuffs.
There is a particular and connected danger presented by the animal meals, some of them infective, still stored in other states.
The smallest amounts of this material is sufficient to cause infections, and this is yet another reason not to lift the ban on feeding with it.
Guaranteeing the safety of humans and animals most certainly and fundamentally presupposes a working and stringent system of controls in the Member States.
I welcome the strict prescription of effective tests for BSE in all the Member States, and also the demand that the age for testing be reduced to 24 months.
The Commission must also intervene in favour of the introduction of the open declaration of all feed ingredients in all nation states.
Even before the Central and Eastern European states accede to the EU, they need to set up working systems alongside our own to oversee the safety of food and feedingstuffs.
There is an especially urgent need for slaughterhouses to be reorganised so that the immediate removal and disposal of hazardous materials in accordance with European directives may be guaranteed.
Imported food must be every bit as safe as that produced in the European Union, and so tests for BSE must now be made obligatory in countries outside the EU.
The safety of food, including that which is imported, is a fundamental requirement for consumers who want to eat healthily.
We must make it our concern.
