Mr President, I do not at this moment want to go into the fundamental question of whether it makes sense to deal with such an important contribution to debate by the President of the Commission on the basis of who manages to catch the President's eye.
We will certainly have to discuss that on another occasion.
Mr President of the Commission, we can of course go along with everything that you have said.
You spoke about enlargement, and I would ask you to think - and perhaps say something later - about whether you in the Commission might also apply the system we want to introduce after the accession treaties are signed, that of having observers from the candidate countries here in Parliament.
Do you think it might be possible to involve figures from the candidate countries in the work of the Commission, while these countries are not, as yet, Members?
You then talked about the Mediterranean.
If it is true that around 7 000 deaths a year occur in the Mediterranean, for example among people in transit by boat from Morocco to Spain or Portugal, how can we, on the one hand, achieve an improvement in the situation in these countries, and, on the other, make the prevention of these pitiable people's deaths an achievement for our security policy?
You spoke about the Mediterranean Bank, which can be a positive element to which we are not opposed, but no structures must be created in addition to the European Investment Bank.
I would therefore be grateful if you could say something about that.
You spoke about stability, and, as far as stability and the repatriation of debts in national budgets are concerned, I would like to encourage the Commission to keep on course and write your warning letter, as you had planned, ...
... to both these Member States.
I find it an unacceptable system in which those who are at the end of the day to be criticised, themselves decide whether such criticism should be meted out!
I think we need quite new ways of forming judgments in this area.
My final observation, Mr President, is perhaps aimed more at us ourselves, but I would be grateful if the President of the Commission could say something about it.
(Interruptions)
Just calm down!
It is your convictions too that I am expressing.
The Council is not here today.
I do not want to criticise anybody, but we must prepare for the future, and for the reform of the Council, by ensuring that the Council is represented when the President of the Commission makes an important statement in this House.
This is not now aimed solely at the Spanish Presidency; it is a topic of general relevance to the reform of the Council.
I believe that there is an urgent need for reforms to the European Council of Ministers!
(Applause)
