Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in contrast to the previous speaker, who thinks that too few measures have been taken, I have to say that, as a Member and as vice-chairman of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs, the measures proposed by national governments give me great cause for concern.
In the areas mentioned, the European Council is formulating objectives that in some cases are clearly cutting across the competence of Member States.
Even if open coordination is not specifically mentioned as a particularly suitable policy tool for these areas of policy, that cannot disguise the fact that the procedure that will continue to apply is that based on objectives and guidelines whose implementation by the Member States is subject to scrutiny at European level.
The end result is open coordination.
This procedure is highly undemocratic.
Neither the European Parliament nor national parliaments are involved in it.
It amounts to a violation of the relevant treaties.
However, it is also an affront to the objective formulated by the governments in Laeken in December 2001 for the next intergovernmental conference and the most important theme of the convention, that is to say the dividing line in competence as between the EU and Member States.
What has become apparent from a constitutional point of view is the statement by the Barcelona Council that there should be a simplification of the process for the European Employment Strategy, and that in particular the number of employment policy guidelines should be reduced.
So who initiated this process?
It would be very difficult to demonstrate the need for a distinct division of competences more clearly.
All I can do is to call on the Heads of State and Government to respect the competences laid down in the relevant treaties and not to arrogate rights to themselves that are found neither in national constitutions nor in the European treaties.
The Council's exhortation to Member States to introduce more flexible working arrangements at national level will undoubtedly have a greater impact than utopian European targets and guidelines.
The Heads of State and Government should avoid not only the inflation of targets, but also an inflation of Councils, and should concentrate on realistic tasks for the European Union which are covered by the treaties.
