Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is violation of human rights in Kyrgyzstan, a country supported by us through the central Asian delegation to which I belong.
Time is short, so I shall address what seem to me to be two particularly important points.
First, when I visited the region, I saw clearly for myself that the people were raring to go and move towards our values.
Unlike all the countries which have since joined and will soon join the EU, the countries of central Asia are basically making their own way towards democracy, without the huge amounts in aid being received by other countries.
The only aid is TACIS.
The European Union is providing Kyrgyzstan with financial and technical assistance in setting up ministries in the agricultural and social sectors.
If you just stop to consider the different mentality, the cultural differences, religious differences and their completely different historical development, then you will begin to understand the huge difference between our and the central Asian understanding of democracy.
What I mean to say here is that we must be careful not to be too harsh on other countries in our demands for democracy and human rights.
Secondly, as partners and friends of central Asia, it is our duty to point out serious scandals in due and proper form, especially as Kyrgyzstan is in receipt of a certain amount of aid from us under the TACIS programme.
This European Parliament resolution takes account of the dilemma to which I referred.
As I said, on the one hand, a recognition of what are surely difficult circumstances and, on the other, the difficulty in establishing a working democracy which guarantees the involvement of all sections and groups of the population.
I should like to make a point of acknowledging what has been achieved so far.
However, when it comes to human rights, as Mr Bowis very impressively pointed out, there appears to be more retrogression than progression and I must express my very serious concern here.
Human rights and human dignity are the basis of a modern society and a stable democracy.
