Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are as one in our displeasure with the Commission.
It is not acceptable for the Commission to act illegally, for them to put off the implementation of this decision, delaying it, and so on.
Nor is it acceptable for them to look on and do nothing while the Member States endow their omissions with something like legitimacy.
Now at last, what has been resolved upon - namely, a ban on the marketing of cosmetics tested on animals - must be put into effect with all force.
The Commission is itself, after all, the guardian of the law, and as the guardian of the law, it must ensure that laws are implemented.
Now the Commission, rather than guarding the law, is obstructing it.
What you are achieving here will be catastrophic in its effect.
It is precisely in terms of the great implementation deficit in our European Union that you are giving such a bad example that in future all the Member States will be able to point to the Commission and say: Look at that, even the Commission itself is incapable of implementing its own laws, preferring to make laws for itself, and set itself above the law.
As Mrs Roth-Behrendt so rightly said, it acts illegally, bending the law to suit itself and contributing to the Member States' noticeably diminishing interest in putting the law into real effect.
Therefore, Commissioner, I would like to reiterate, with as much emphasis as I can muster, that it is not acceptable for you to send out this calamitous signal; on the contrary, the Commission must change its ways, become the guardian of the Treaties and do everything in its power to really get the Member States to transpose this law, and not itself go and break current European law.
That is not tolerable, and Mr Whitehead was right to say so.
How on earth do you intend to get it across to the public that the Commission has failed to make any real effort to put into effect things that should have been done in the past?
Quite apart from that, I find it positively absurd that the Commission is also stabbing the Conciliation Committee in the back, depriving it of fallback positions, and making something of a mockery of the work currently being done in Parliament.
That the Commission should go so far as to do that really is unique in history.
You can see how great is our displeasure, and I cannot expect us to do other than adopt this resolution by a large majority; I look forward to the Commission really seeing what an emphatic rebuke this is and realising how far-reaching is its significance.
