Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, it is scarcely credible that between 10% and 20% of people in the European Union are unable to understand printed matter and documents and make use of them.
Even I will readily concede that I am not in a position to fill in my German tax return forms without expert help, let alone actually fill in an application form for a project promoted by Europe.
It is, though, surely not this sort of documents to which this report refers.
People who have difficulty with reading and writing are restricted in their ability to participate in the life of society, and, when it comes to earning a living, are relegated to work for which minimal qualifications are required and which is therefore badly paid.
On economic, but above all on ethical and moral grounds, it is our duty to preserve people from this fate in this century of the information society and of lifelong learning.
Parliament is therefore doing the right thing with this report by describing a problem which is often shamefacedly hushed up, and offering solutions to it.
That has been done in this report as thoroughly as necessary and as briefly as possible, by the rapporteur, Mrs Hermange.
European legislation, though, is limited in this task to measures of development and support, as general and vocational education falls within the remit of the Member States, and that is where it should stay.
The Member States' sole duty is to make real the right to education which is now also enshrined in Article 14 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The work of the monitoring centre which the report calls for should be carried on in the already-existing Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop) in Thessaloniki, using the resources available there.
That makes sense in view of the costs involved and of the relevance to the functions Cedefop performs in any case, and so I ask you to support our Amendment No 5.
I would also subscribe to and support a European Year devoted to books and to reading, in view of our young people's widespread mania for television.
