Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear Mrs Roth-Behrendt, animal experiments in the field of cosmetics need to be done away with, and as quickly as possible.
This House decided that as long ago as 1993, but at that time we had a weak partner alongside us.
It appears that we still do.
The weak partner in question is the Commission, which has, over recent years, not got a grip on consistently putting these European resolutions across at the WTO and getting our partners there to grasp soon enough that we are ready to go ahead.
We want to force them to take positive action.
That is why, Mr Liikanen - despite the high personal regard I have for you - I find your presentation very disappointing and hope that our next debate will see us at last getting a ban on animal experiments, which as far as I am concerned could be in five or six years' time.
What is crucial, though, is that, after those five or six years have elapsed, the cut-off point must be reached.
Everyone must be aware that, after five or six years, experiments on animals will be over, apart from those scientifically-justified exceptions that we intend to lay down here and now.
We know that there is an exception to every rule, but exceptions must remain just that and nothing more.
That is why we cannot, in five years' time, have a new document presented to us and the debate starting all over again from the beginning.
We cannot explain it to our children and nor can we explain it to the animal.
The Commission has enough clout to sort this out at a sufficiently early stage with our WTO partners around the world.
Our experience with leghold traps, and traps with animal skins, is an outstanding demonstration of this.
If we involve our WTO partners in the debate at an early enough stage rather than take them by surprise, a way can very well be found.
Commissioner, I really would like to encourage you to go down this road.
You are in character enough of a man to play the part of an outrider throughout the world.
I very much want to motivate you to do that.
