Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the ceasefire between the Sri Lanka Government and the LTTE signed on 24 February, we hope that both sides will now be able to return to the negotiating table and broker a comprehensive peace agreement.
This would give momentum to the reconciliation process and pave the way for reconstruction measures.
I should like here to express my recognition of the Norwegian Government, which has worked tirelessly in the wings brokering the peace process.
The Commission has assured the Government of Sri Lanka that it is prepared to join in international efforts to support a reconstruction programme if the peace process shows real progress.
In the meantime, the Commission has taken a whole host of measures.
EUR 2.7 million will be provided for humanitarian aid programmes this year in order to help displaced people, following on from the EUR 3.3 million provided for this purpose last year.
EUR 4 million are to be provided for this programme next year and again in 2004.
Experts from ECHO are already on site assessing the emergency humanitarian aid requirement for this year.
In April, missions will be sent to Sri Lanka to work out proposals for programmes and projects, for which development aid of EUR 10 million and economic aid of up to EUR 5 million will be provided in the years 2002 to 2006.
The EC/Sri Lanka development aid working party is due to meet in Colombo next week to discuss how the Commission's rapid reaction mechanism can be used to boost confidence building and conflict prevention.
The working party is also due to meet in June, following the World Bank's development forum, in order to discuss development aid and economic cooperation.
The Commission has deliberately built a great deal of flexibility into its programming of humanitarian aid, so that, if the ceasefire is successful, measures can be taken to move and resettle people, to promote education and economic recovery, and to restore incomes.
A comprehensive peace agreement would allow us to launch a broad reconstruction programme together with other partners.
