Mr President, the debate on the flood disasters has shown Europe to the public in a new light - as a community of solidarity.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is a bonus that we should not carelessly fritter away.
Great changes and challenges are ahead of us.
The crucial issues are evident - to us, but not to the European public.
The man in the street in Vienna would say that there is something missing from our information policy.
It is precisely on this area that a large number of amendments have been submitted.
The pressure to inform is huge, and that information must be one-sided - glossy brochures, ivory-tower conferences and websites - no matter how inventive, brilliantly conceived and really informative.
It reminds me of something I frequently experienced in my professional life.
If the public don't come to the theatre, the theatre must go to the public.
We have to go out to people, to universities, into schools, and the Member States cannot be discharged from their obligations in this respect.
We are all open to that criticism.
We should inform each other better, as the lack of information gives rise to misunderstandings, and it is precisely those that we have least need of.
That brings me back to cultural policy.
You always hear it said, in a cynical tone, that in Brussels there is money lying all over the streets, and you just have to pick some up.
Well, when it comes to culture, you can't talk in terms of collecting money and certainly not of just picking it up - counting the pennies is more like it.
Bureaucracy in this area is simply unmanageable.
Although we have only limited competence in it, I wonder what became of the three institutions' will to do something about cultural policy.
It is far too weak.
Rather than promote European content in this globalised age in which we live, we are supporting the big boys - big countries, big co-productions.
That way, the little guys, the smaller countries, and the lesser-used languages lose out.
What I want to ask the Commission is this: a legal basis for the financing of the A-30 lines is being planned, but what conception does the Commission have of it?
Is there to be a multi-annual plan?
Is there to be an interinstitutional working party, in order that the criteria in the individual areas can be defined jointly and more exactly?
