Mr President, Commissioner, esteemed ladies and gentlemen, the number of people per year applying for asylum in the European Union has already reached 500 000.
They want refugee status.
The individual Member States have the most diverse procedures, which, as a rule, take a very long time.
We are faced with multiple applications and the associated misuse of social security benefits as well.
At the end of the day, 90% of these applications are rejected, and only 10% of the applicants are actually recognised as refugees in accordance with the Geneva Convention.
This means that we need European minimum standards for reception procedures, which need to be speedy and safe in order that the 10% recognised as refugees may exercise their rights and get the help they need.
We need measures to combat misuse.
What we do not want is for the right of asylum to be eroded, nor do we want covert immigration by way of asylum.
We therefore support proposals by the Commission and above all by our rapporteur, Mr Hernández Mollar, which take these objectives into consideration, but decisively reject all the unacceptable and bankrupt proposals by the Liberals, the Social Democrats and the Greens.
We reject the idea of extending the grounds for recognition far beyond the scope of the Geneva Convention.
We reject the idea of immediate access to the labour market for applicants for asylum and all their accompanying family members, which goes hand in hand with total freedom of movement right across the European Union.
We reject the proposal for immediate access to vocational training, and, above all, we repudiate their desire to do away with sanctions when the Member States' security is threatened, when applicants for asylum 'go underground', claim social security benefits to which they are not entitled or indulge in violent behaviour.
With these demands of yours, ladies and gentlemen on the Left, you will not help refugees to exercise their rights and get help without delay, but rather, you will be inviting immigration without it being managed or controlled and by way of asylum, which is unacceptable.
In Europe, governments of that sort generally get voted out of office.
That would not be such a bad thing, but what is, is that very often populist extremists from the Right are then voted in.
That we do not want!
That is not the policy that we support.
We reject what your side is coming up with.
We do not want more Le Pens in Europe.
