Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, transatlantic trade relations have often come under strain.
We have been able to resolve many trade conflicts in a professional way that satisfied both sides, but only because we have accepted binding rules for free and fair world trade within the framework of the WTO, and also because the WTO is the only international organisation that has a dispute resolution system that also provides for sanctions.
However, with the punitive tariffs the United States is now imposing on steel imports, they are abandoning the common ground that we have so far occupied under the WTO.
It is extremely hard for us Europeans to understand these measures, as they primarily hit our steel products.
Almost half of Europe's steel exports to the USA are affected by these punitive tariffs.
What is more, we Europeans can expect to suffer twice over from the American measures, because of diverted trade flows.
That is something we are not prepared to accept.
We will not support the Americans' game of playing off their workers' interests against those of our own workers.
Over the past few years, the European steel industry has had great success in carrying out restructuring, but this has involved enormous job losses, making this a very painful process.
It must be clear for the United States that it is not in their interest to undermine confidence in the WTO's system of multilateral rules and its impartial conflict resolution system at the beginning of the Doha Round.
In the case of bilateral contacts with the USA, the European Union needs to firmly demonstrate to our American partner that this serious and unwarranted interference in free world trade will not be simply accepted, and that we will make use of the mechanisms currently at our disposal.
Why is the Commission not considering using the mechanisms available to it in accordance with the decision of the WTO panel on US export promotion and taking countermeasures?
I believe it is now necessary for us to make that clear to the Unites States.
