Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner.
Roy Perry mentioned the sum spent on olives each year during the previous debate on education, and EUR 167 million over five years is a pittance for culture.
As an actress that is nothing new to me.
It is all too familiar.
What a pity we cannot change and improve on this.
My thanks to the rapporteur, especially for his willingness to engage in an open dialogue with us shadow rapporteurs.
He really was there to discuss and take everything on board.
We have two major problems.
One is the material direction we want to take in the future, the questions we are asking now.
That is not anticipating the debate, as Mrs Pack just said; the debate needs to be held now, if we need new ideas and want to format a new programme in 2004 for 2005, provided it is still running.
The other problem area is administration, bureaucratic expenditure, overly vague selection criteria and implementation methods which are shouting out to be modified.
These details are all contained in the report.
I want to canvass in public for this Culture 2000 programme even now.
Culture and cultural programmes are the soul of Europe, as everyone has said.
You do realise that art and culture have an exponential effect on our integration policy and if we lose these partners along our common way, then our numbers shall dwindle and our strength in this fight, which we really do want to join forces on, will be sapped.
The Sunday papers are full of articles swearing allegiance to culture, but nothing ever comes of it.
I am already fed up with saying the same things, but we must keep on saying them.
It is not just the Culture Ministers; the Finance Ministers also have a responsibility.
Everyone in Europe has to find a place in society.
Everyone is searching, perhaps from the cradle to the grave, to quote Mrs Pack.
Everyone wants to feel at home in our European society, to recognise themselves in the reflection of European society which art and culture offer.
If we cannot manage this, we shall not mange to root out conflicts, perhaps even as they arise, and we have a joint responsibility to do so.
Parliament is fighting the good fight, the Commission is fighting the good fight.
If we cannot get the Council on board, it is we who shall be left holding the baby!
