Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to unreservedly congratulate those concerned on the preparation of the summit by the Spanish Presidency and by the team of Prime Minister Aznar, the President-in-Office of the Council.
As far as the outcome of the summit is concerned, I would like to carry on where our group chairman left off and refer to the double standards employed in writing up the outcome.
Was the reality such that only words like "welcome, request, reaffirm, expect" were appropriate?
Would the Council not have greater credibility if it were to criticise and regret certain types of behaviour and make specific declarations, just as the President-in-Office of the Council has done here today?
Those who block, delay and put on the brakes need to be named and shamed, instead of always reducing everything to the lowest common denominator and thus turning their backs on Europe's real needs.
Just who does the Council consist of?
Many of the forms of wording it adopts give the hypocritical and misleading impression that the participants in the summit have nothing to do with the European Council and the various specific ministers, although they are responsible for their behaviour.
Yes, we need to give more support to small and medium-sized enterprises.
That is why I welcome Paragraph 15, which is based on the European Parliament's decisions with regard to supporting SMEs.
That is why I am calling on every Council to consider the Basle Committee negotiations, so that the Six and the Nine are brought together.
Yes, we need more rapid implementation once directives have been adopted.
That is why we are calling for a reduction in implementation times.
We are calling for a greater role for Europe in terms of achieving the Lisbon targets and thus Europe's role on the world market.
Yes, we need the action plan for financial services and stability.
That is why I am calling on the Council at long last, after two years, to adopt a common position on pension reform.
I am calling for criticism of the ECOFIN Council for undermining the Commission.
Yes, we need more transparency.
That is why we are calling for Council meetings to be open.
Yes, we need to remove the barriers, blockades and restrictions.
That is why we are criticising the fact that election dates in France and Germany, for example, and monopolies such as EdF's have undermined the European objective of liberalising energy markets and the decision taken by Parliament.
