Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in view of the lateness of the hour, I would particularly like to mention the ladies and gentlemen in the interpreters' booths.
Our thanks are due to them.
They are always there and help us in Europe to understand each other better, and to get on better with each other.
We now have before us the question on parental responsibility that we have tabled.
We as a legislature should not lecture people about how to run their lives, but we do need to help them find the right path through life.
We need to make that right path possible.
That is why the European Union has pledged itself to honour fundamental rights, both in the treaties and in the Charter.
The Member States have now been co-existing very well for over 50 years.
Peace has reigned between very different societies, but within families there is often conflict when love is shattered.
Generally, it is the children who suffer.
In such cases we then read in the newspapers about children being kidnapped by their own parents or being unable to develop properly because of the pressure they are under.
We should not pretend that these things are not happening, and we have to recognise that what are apparently merely family arguments between a few individuals indicate problems with a European dimension.
Ultimately, it is the rubbing points in cross-border judicial arrangements that grind down families and children.
That is what we need to put a stop to.
That is why our question to the Commission includes points that we have identified in conversation with the people affected.
Our question includes proposals for solving the legal problems and facilitating judicial cooperation for the benefit of children.
I do not want to read out the details again here, Commissioner.
You have had a chance to read them and I would be pleased if you could agree with each of them.
You would be doing a great many people a service if you were to do that and if you were to make it clear to even more of our citizens that Europe is more than a legally defined area of freedom, security and justice.
Please take this opportunity to make it clear, together with the European Parliament, that Europe is an area in which people can feel secure outside their own borders, even if there has been conflict between partners.
That is why - and our question relates to these three things - we need clear and comprehensive legislation, properly motivated lawyers who jointly implement legislation with a common understanding for people, and, last but not least, good common fundamental concepts.
I hope that you can also satisfactorily answer this question for us.
