Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I see both light and shade in the outcome of the legislative process, which is now drawing to its close, on the Caudron report and on the Sixth Framework Programme.
A whole range of proposals made by Parliament have been taken up in the Common Position and in the Commission proposal, and there is a certain amount that we have achieved.
What I would mention as being particularly positive is that child illnesses and their treatment now have a place in European research policy.
There was, unfortunately, resistance to that at first, but that resistance was successfully overcome.
I see it as particularly important that priority one not only includes genetic engineering, with all the opportunities it offers us, but also medical research in general.
For these improvements I wish to thank all parties involved - the Commission, Commissioner Busquin, Mr Caudron, the rapporteur; the shadow rapporteurs, especially Mr van Velzen, and also the Spanish Presidency.
I see, however, the compromise we have now achieved as having one great and grave defect, in that no clear rules have been enacted on how to deal with ethically sensitive areas of research.
Parliament has difficulties with this, of course, but we adopted an amendment at first reading which could at least show Europe the way ahead.
Even though I do not give it my wholehearted support, it is a compromise that has taken form there.
It is unfortunate that the Council has wriggled out of its responsibilities by not setting down any clear rules in this area.
Legal uncertainty now makes this a difficult situation for all concerned.
The Commission will not have an easy time of it with this text, which incorporates no mandate that might, for example, support research with human embryos, although the possibility of this is not clearly excluded either.
This will lead to disagreements, and that is another reason why we, in Europe, should carry on working towards a compromise.
I am prepared to join in working on a compromise even if it means disregarding my personal conviction in favour of tight restriction.
Co-funding will be impossible for as long as a compromise of that sort is not reached.
Subsidiarity cannot mean that we may well have no common rules, and that everyone does as he pleases, but all share in paying for it.
That is why this issue demands that amendments be tabled and resolutions adopted.
