Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, species extinction and the loss of biodiversity in Europe and worldwide are proceeding at an ever-increasing pace.
Despite all the measures we have taken so far, we have quite simply failed to curb this trend.
Following the adoption by the Council of the Community strategy on biodiversity in June 1998, it is gratifying that the communication proposes biodiversity action plans in four areas - conservation of natural resources, fisheries, economic cooperation, and development - and this is of course very welcome in principle.
The Commission's proposals on agriculture are to be welcomed as well.
I am therefore rather disappointed that the otherwise excellent report by the rapporteur takes such a negative view of agriculture - at least, that is how we see it - and fails to make any mention of agriculture's contribution to protecting biodiversity.
My group will vote for this report, but we will vote against it on a number of individual points.
You see, I come from a country which would have no future without its farmers.
Austria is primarily an Alpine country, and without our Alpine farmers - whose working practices date back a hundred or even two hundred years - there would be a great deal wrong with our country.
We are well aware that agriculture - especially non-intensive agriculture - also maintains specific eco-systems.
Some habitats, such as those which exist in the mosaic of planted fields and boundaries defined by hedgerows and ditches, are quite simply vital to protect specific flora and fauna and ensure that they can nest and find sources of food.
I do not want to recite a list of the different types of bird affected or tell you which species have survived as a result of agriculture, and I certainly have no intention of telling you all about plant and insect species.
Nonetheless, I think it is important to mention that non-intensive agriculture - let me emphasise this quite specifically - non-intensive and family-based agriculture has made a very substantial contribution to the conservation of wild and, indeed, domesticated flora and fauna.
I believe that if we fail to recognise the contribution made by farmers today, we are doing a disservice to our natural environment and our eco-systems.
We will vote for this report, but in the areas where we think it does not do justice to our farmers, we will vote against it.
