Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, obstruction by the government notwithstanding, the European Union was able to follow the elections in Zimbabwe very closely and I should like to start by expressing my immense admiration of numerous people in Zimbabwe for their civil courage and for standing by their democratic convictions under such difficult circumstances.
The European Union has been observing events in Zimbabwe with growing concern.
Misgivings about the electoral process which the European Union voiced when Article 96 still applied have proven to be wholly justified.
I expect the Heads of Government will discuss this issue in Barcelona and that the European Union will be quick to make a statement on this.
Most of the election observers have come to the conclusion that the elections did not reflect the will of people of Zimbabwe and list a whole range of shortcomings in the election process.
However, we can emphasise that, however disappointing the outcome of these elections, the main point is that the international community has turned its attention to Zimbabwe and is doing everything it can to contain the crisis there.
A broad show of force would have serious, mainly regional repercussions.
In the short term, South Africa would face a refugee crisis and, in the long term, any such crisis might jeopardise regional prospects for economic growth and sustainable development, all against a backdrop of a serious food shortage.
The Commission, together with other partners, will be giving humanitarian requirements a high priority.
It is also extremely important for us to work with the SADC governments and the ACP countries in order to find a common basis for overcoming the crisis in Zimbabwe.
The European Union is planning to send a high-level troika in the near future, to discuss our misgivings about Zimbabwe with our SADC partners on the basis of our common commitment to the rule of law and democracy.
I trust that the European Parliament will be able to play an important role here.
(Applause)
