Mr President, I will certainly not have anything to say about legionella at this point.
I would like to address a question to you, one that, although it has no connection with the Guinness Book of Records, does indeed have to do with what may be the world's longest waiver of immunity proceedings.
What is the position in the proceedings to waive the immunity of Marcello Dell'Utri MEP?
Last Thursday, the Spanish Supreme Court threw out an application by counsel for Mr Berlusconi and Mr Dell'Utri for proceedings to be stayed and it authorised the Spanish judiciary to continue to proceed against the two persons named, one of them Mr Dell'Utri, who remains a Member of this House.
Now, this attempt to waive immunity is not about bumps sustained in traffic or penalties for unauthorised parking, but serious offences such as fraud, tax evasion to the tune of millions, suspected membership of a Mafia organisation, and so on.
This action for the waiver of immunity has been gathering dust in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights for over a year and a half.
The Spanish judicial authorities have now sorted out the issues of interest to the Spanish, and so there are no longer any reasons to leave this case in the hands of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
The following are my requests of you:
Firstly, if you have more up-to-date news of the state of play, please present it to us.
Secondly, if you do not have new information on how things stand, I would ask you to communicate with the chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights in order to get this matter into plenary as quickly as possible.
We in the Socialist Group want this for two reasons: firstly, because of the circumstances involving Mr Dell'Utri, but also because it is not acceptable that cases of such wide scope which have extended over such a long period should not be brought into plenary.
It is not only an impediment to us as Members of this House, but also prevents the Members concerned from making statements to justify themselves here in plenary and in the relevant committee.
We therefore ask you to speed matters up now, so that Parliament should not be subject to unjustified suspicions.
