Mr President, I too would like, on behalf of my group, to thank all the rapporteurs for their good work on the discharge of the General Budget this year, and make just a few comments.
We greatly welcome, for example, the way that Mr McCartin's report addressed the issue of export subsidies.
We will be giving that more of a cutting edge by means of an amendment, as it is our opinion that the subsidy of live animal transports still leaves too many openings for fraud involving subsidies that make no sense whatever to the EU's taxpayers.
We consider this issue to be extremely important, and one where things need to be further tightened up.
We will be supporting Mrs Morgan in giving the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs discharge for the last few years but still not for 1996 and 1997.
We consider it extremely important that our committee should strongly reiterate that these years saw mismanagement of travel expenses and, even more important, that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs dragged its feet in clearing up this fraud, and that not enough was done to prepare the case for OLAF.
This must continue to receive critical attention, and we must strongly reiterate that rather than cloaking the issue in silence.
I would also like to express support for Mrs Morgan's demand that the Council be given discharge in the area of foreign and security policy, and also in internal affairs policy, all of which increasingly result in operational expenditure.
I am, though, far from satisfied with the way in which the Council has dealt with these matters in the past, and I fear that it will still not give us a satisfactory answer.
We must, then, again press home our view that this discharge must be for real.
The 'gentlemen's agreement' no longer applies.
On this point, a definite decision has to be taken.
In conclusion, I wish to express my agreement with Mr Kuhne, who spoke before me.
If we are to criticise the Council in the course of the discharge procedure, we in this House must handle our own discharge very carefully.
The administrative and group budgets should have been separated a long time ago.
I wish, though, to urge the Council to at last come to some decisions on the parties, where we in Parliament are not competent to act.
We need the Council to at last decide on a party statute, which would be a practical response to public criticism on this point.
