.
Madam President, I was unfortunately prevented from being here this morning and will therefore sum up our position on the Socrates, Youth and Culture 2000 programmes.
The rationale behind the choice of these programmes can be traced back to the decisive consideration that the programmes in question are surely the Community's most important support programmes in the fields of education, youth, and European culture.
Being aware of the importance of these specific areas, Parliament has, moreover, let itself be guided by the allocation of substantial funding and the recent extension into 2006.
Nor should we forget the legislative processes initiated by the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
We explicitly welcome the formation of an evaluation group, whose objective must be to closely supervise Parliament's implementation of Community programmes.
We welcome the initiative taken in forming the evaluation group as well as that to extend this control machinery on the basis of new instruments and appropriate structures.
We also emphasise that it is heavy demand from within the Member States that has led to the Socrates, Youth, and Culture 2000 programmes being allocated additional resources.
We had to take note of the fact that the programmes' low level of implementation during 2000 was attributable to lengthy and cumbersome internal procedures.
Parliament therefore expects the Commission to guarantee more efficient implementation, not least in order to help Europe's credibility in the eyes of its citizens and taxpayers.
It is with concern that we observe bottlenecks, especially within the centralised management framework.
Here of all places, attention should be paid to the utilisation of financial assets.
It is a significant step in the right direction to further decentralise the administration of the programme, yet, thinking in terms of a united Europe, we must not forget that, as regards the determining of the programmes' political orientation, the sole competence of the institutions must be guaranteed.
