Mr President, as the rapporteur has already said what this is about, I do not need to enlarge on that, but I have to make it unmistakably clear that giving local products 15% or 25% advantage is excessive.
We do not agree with the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism, and, in the opinion I drafted, we proposed that these tax differentials be scaled down from 25% to 15% and 15% to 10% respectively.
I regret the fact that the lead Committee on Regional Policy has not followed us in this.
As regards the products listed in the various categories, various inconsistencies are apparent, which have been pointed out in the many comments I have had from Spanish producers and also from Members of this House, and I would like to point them out to Mr Bolkestein, who is, after all, such a great defender of the principle that there should be no market distortions in the common market.
This is what I have to say to you.
Category B includes rum, which, as we all know, is made from sugar cane.
There are no sugar cane plantations in the Canary Islands, and the product, already distilled, is imported from abroad.
The two dominant local manufacturers control 73% of the market and add aromatic substances and colourings to what they import from South Africa, selling the concoction as 'rum from the Canary Islands'.
So one cannot speak in terms of rum production in the Canary Islands supposedly maintaining jobs; there may well be a hundred jobs, but two families with an oligopoly of the Canary Islands market reap an immense profit from them.
That is something of which you should take account.
I also have to point out that there are a few other inconsistencies, for example, the levying of the new tax on gin, vodka and liqueurs, but not on whisky or other spirits.
Make of that what you will.
I suggest to you, Mr Bolkestein, that you take a good look at what you or your department have wrought there, and then you will see why we feel like giving you a clip round the ear when you keep coming back to us and telling us about inconsistencies!
(The President cut the speaker off)
