Mr President, we can take it as read, on the basis of current scientific research, that foot and mouth disease is, of all viral infections, one of the most dangerous to our stocks of cloven-hoofed animals.
The situation is that this dangerous animal disease spreads in an explosive manner if it is introduced in unvaccinated stocks.
We saw that happen recently, when foot and mouth disease broke out in Great Britain.
We also know what damage then ensues.
It is irrelevant whether foot and mouth disease has broken out or is present in South Korea or in another country of the world.
The mobility of people and goods, which can be transferred from one place to another in the shortest conceivable time, means that the risk is always present.
So I ask the Commission whether the prophylactic resources are sufficient to avert this danger in the long term.
We know that the European strategy for combating animal diseases still has its flaws.
The state of knowledge, which must normally increase over time, is unchanged as regards what happens in the absence of vaccination.
I ask the Commission whether the attempt should not be made to alter the animal diseases strategy in future, with particular reference to foot and mouth disease, in such a way that prophylaxis is monitored far better.
As Mrs Redondo and her predecessors on the floor said, prophylaxis of course begins at the airport or on the train.
Prophylaxis is, though, also to a very significant extent, a matter for the individual stock farmer, and I must say, some very worrying things come to light.
When I run an open day for visitors to my farm, there is no doubt in my mind; I always see people from the towns running through the stables without taking any steps whatever to prevent the spread of disease.
Taking all these things together, I would consider it possible to stop this dangerous disease in its tracks.
Let me plainly say here and now that I very much question the assumption on which we have based our actions over the past years, namely that we can stamp it out across the board.
So I urge the implementation of a prophylaxis worthy of the name, and I ask the Commission to give an appropriate answer on the subject.
