Mr President, Prime Minister, you have, amongst the six priorities of the Spanish Presidency of the Council, managed to say not one word on the protection of the environment.
That is, I admit, a respectable achievement, indeed a transparent one.
I have had to listen too often over the last twelve years to Presidents of the Council who, among their priorities at the outset of their presidency, announce things they cannot bring to pass.
In this case, you do not even announce anything.
I find that very frank, very transparent and very clear.
I am very grateful to Mr Salafranca for bringing Groucho Marx into the discussion earlier on.
I, too, was reminded of Groucho Marx when I listened to that speech, because I must admit that I found it more than grotesque.
Groucho Marx represents the grotesque, and I find it more than grotesque that the Spanish Presidency of the Council, ten years after the Rio Summit and in the year of the Johannesburg World Summit, has nothing to say about the protection of the environment.
Mr Aznar, it is not for your Ministry of the Environment to do that, it is for you to do it.
Let me remind you that the last summit, the Summit in Gothenburg, called upon you, the European Council, to use your meeting in Barcelona in the first half of the year to check on what was still needed.
You must, then, say something about emissions trading.
You must say when you want to ratify the Kyoto protocol.
You must, for example, say when you intend to implement the Sixth Environmental Action Programme's strategies for the various industry sectors.
In no way is that a matter for the environmental authorities in your own country; it is a matter for you personally.
We always consider it important to cooperate closely and well with the Council, and so, Mr Aznar, I offer you assistance should your government have need of it.
I am perfectly ready to offer you all my group's suggestions - with all respect of course - as may be necessary to enable you to perform your duties at the beginning of the year.
