Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cultural diversity of Europe is reflected in, among other things, the political systems of the Member States.
Taking responsibility in Europe means mutual recognition of the Member States' constitutional arrangements, which are many and varied.
I am from a Member State with a federal constitution and see this as a great advantage, especially in terms of the greater proximity of politics to the citizen.
This makes me particularly grateful to our rapporteur, Mr Lamassoure, for taking up the topic of the regions, especially of those that possess legislative powers.
Some of these regions are larger, in terms of surface area and population, than the small Member States.
This disparity in political arrangements will be made greater by the accession of more Member States.
Item 34 and the compromise set out in item 39 are very important, as they highlight a new way of having recourse to law in disputes concerning subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality.
Let me draw my colleagues' attention to one thing, namely that, in its judgment dated 3 May 2002 in the Jégo Quéré case, the European Court of First Instance declared itself to be a constitutional court.
The clear delimitation of competences is of the greatest significance as regards the public's consent to further internal integration and to enlargement.
What Europe's citizens want is for the Convention, when working out its proposals for a European constitutional treaty, to be guided by transparently clarifying the tasks to be performed by the EU and by the Member States respectively.
The latest Eurobarometer surveys indicate that 60% of the EU's citizens take pride in describing themselves as Europeans, and that two-thirds of the current population of the EU - as many as 80% in Italy - want a European constitution.
Mr Lamassoure's fine report is an important contribution by Parliament to the arduous process of attaining that goal.
So, I thank everybody and hope that we will be successful in the Convention!
