Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lamassoure, if he is listening, may perhaps take it as special praise when I tell him that rarely has a report been discussed as long or as vehemently as his, to the chagrin of our co-ordinator Richard Corbett, to whom we have given much to do.
Let me, though, make just two comments on it.
The first has to do with the subsidiarity issue and the relationship with the regions.
I was a member of a provincial government in Austria.
I know about the many advantages, and also about the problems, associated with the regions and with subsidiarity.
I would simply plead for us not to forget the political cohesion that the EU needs when we are taking all these steps towards a better relationship with the regions, and for us to look carefully when taking these steps.
That strikes me as being of absolute importance.
The second is that today's debate is not taking place in a sanitised vacuum, and what is happening in politics, especially the elections taking place today in the Netherlands, insofar as we have any information about them, shows that a certain segment of the population has a growing tendency to vote and act by reference to European policy.
I nonetheless am of the opinion, with reference to item 20, that the rapporteur and, I assume, we Members of this House ourselves when we vote tomorrow, will be quite right to stipulate that external and internal security in particular are among the EU's own powers.
For the Members who, when speaking here, use the fears and criticisms expressed in these elections in order to argue against the strengthening of the European Union in these areas, are not speaking in the citizens' interest.
It is they, the citizens, who have an interest in greater security at home and abroad.
If we were to ask them and perhaps explain this to them better, we would gain greater consent and support for the European Union having these powers.
So I would like to say loud and clear that the EU's own powers, to which Mr Lamassoure clearly holds fast in his report, meet with our support, because we need more activities by the European Union, and better reasoning behind them, in the interests of our citizens' security both in terms of foreign policy and of the area of freedom and security.
