Mr President, painstaking efforts are needed to find any reference at all to the political domain of agriculture and rural development in this 28-page Commission strategy paper for 2003.
The word 'agriculture' is mentioned all of three times in the course of one three-page section.
This is perhaps due in part to the fact that the codecision procedure does not yet apply to agricultural legislation.
At the same time, we are called upon for the first time to participate in the strategic assessment of issues such as enlargement, the WTO talks, the development of the Budget and the mid-term evaluation.
On enlargement, the plan is to conclude the accession negotiations with the applicant countries in 2003, and then enlargement could begin in 2004.
We are all well aware of the monumental tasks that await the Commission, Parliament and the Council in the areas of agriculture and rural development in 2003.
In this respect, enlargement will also be a top priority of agriculture policy in 2003 and will require great negotiating skills.
Yesterday's hearing on this subject in the Committee on Budgets highlighted the amount of work that is still to be done.
Close dialogue with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is essential, as is better use of the resources allocated to pre-accession aid.
In the WTO context, agriculture also plays a key role.
And so I say to our friends in the Commission that we expect you to provide us with continuous information and consultation on progress in the WTO trade talks.
You yourselves refer on page 14 of your crazy paper to a decisive phase in these negotiations.
On the Budget, following the result of the vote on the Färm report, or, to be more specific, the adoption by this chamber of Guideline No 9, care should be taken to ensure that the amended mid-term evaluation is taken into account as far as possible in the 2003 Budget.
This quite simple precept will cause huge headaches, particularly in view of the fact that the Member States are becoming increasingly accustomed to receiving substantial ring-fenced rebates of unused resources from the agricultural budget; these bonuses are particularly welcome, since they can save some countries from the prospect of an admonitory letter from Brussels.
The strategic imperative for 2003 must therefore be full and more efficient utilisation of the agricultural budget, including flexible use of resources for new rural development programmes.
One very important requirement is that quality must play a more important role in the allocation of aid under the common agricultural policy.
Even non-farmers can see the point of compensatory payments that are based on quality.
