Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with warm thanks to Mr Vander Taelen for this report, but also for the commitment he has demonstrated in his Parliamentary work.
He is a true advocate for European film.
Even if he is lost to Parliament, he will be our gain as a partner among the experts.
I think we will continue to work very well together.
I am, though, also grateful to the Commission for the report it has submitted, which gives us the opportunity to draw up an interim balance sheet.
After a good three years' work by Parliament and the Commission, where do we stand?
In my view, this interim balance sheet shows one thing, namely that the European film industry is strong when we work together - Parliament, Commission, and Council, laborious though that sometimes is, with the professionals.
The balance sheet for the past three years proves that we have achieved important things.
Let me address just three of them.
Firstly, the proportion of films other than of national European origin shown in European Union cinemas has increased by 21% over the past year.
That means that our media programme has made a quite substantial contribution to achieving this important objective.
Secondly, thanks to the initiative by Commissioner Reding and Parliament, the European Investment Bank has launched a fund to make available for audio-visual works urgently needed risk capital which totals EUR 400 million in this year alone.
This is an important step in the right direction.
Thirdly, the Commission has examined competition law with reference to the promotion of films by Member States and acknowledged that all of them do so in a legitimate way, so we have gained a good deal more security for European film.
We cannot, however, rest on these laurels.
This report highlights the most pressing problems that we have to deal with - and at EU level - over the coming years.
We must also deal with them through initiatives on the part of the Member States.
It is for that that I appeal to the Council, which insists on subsidiarity.
I have listed only three points.
We need to move over to qualified majority voting to have an efficient working basis under Article 151 of the Treaties.
We need pilot projects for our digital heritage, and subsidy law needs to have proper provisions for the future of European film.
