Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I really would like, as draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, to thank the rapporteur most warmly for the work he has done.
The Commission proposal is one that I am able to welcome in its entirety, as it aims to improve the combating of fraud in the area of agriculture.
For there is one thing that must be clear to all of us, and that is that fraud harms farmers themselves.
The EAGGF guarantee is a means of financing, for example, export refunds, interventions by the various market organisations or the co-financing of supporting and other measures for the development of rural areas outside the Objective 1 regions.
As the Commissioner has already pointed out, Regulation 4045/89 deals with retrospective checking of the business records of undertakings in receipt of agricultural aid from the Community budget for EAGGF guarantees.
Thus, this Regulation is the core anti-fraud measure in the agricultural sphere.
I welcome the Commission's presentation of proposals for adapting this instrument and bringing it up to date.
Controls are important, especially in agriculture, which is a sensitive area, because the whole industry would suffer without them.
The selection criteria for the undertakings to be audited were last amended in 1994, but have not been further adapted since then.
To take an example, the annual rate of inflation has to be taken into account.
Use of risk analysis techniques is to be even further improved.
Aid payments already received, which are fixed as the threshold at which scrutiny starts, are to be raised, and administrative assistance has to be simplified.
This makes me very thankful that this will take place across all the Member States, as this will enable us to reduce the number of audits by up to 25%, which must in no way be taken as a reduction in their quality, but a more targeted selection of undertakings to be audited, and one that relates more to the risks involved.
Fraud needs to be combated in a hard-hitting and focussed way.
In future, therefore, electronic data and documents will be subjected to scrutiny, yielding data on production and on the type of produce.
Direct payments to the producer will continue to be excluded from scrutiny, as will those payments covered by the integrated administration and control system.
I would like to conclude with particular reference to the real importance of taking into account the need to create special framework conditions, based on a multi-annual approach, for this in controls and measures or rural development projects.
