Madam President, I am delivering an opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the Böge report, and this gives me a further opportunity to speak about the transfer of direct payments.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development welcomes the Commission proposal that there should now be some phasing-in of direct payments, but it also believes that this must not be allowed to stand in the way of a restructuring of aids in the upcoming reform.
We do not believe it will, however, because the 35% given leave room for manoeuvre.
The report speaks of reaching 100% by 2013, but it does not say what reaching 100% in 2013 means.
If the last reform had had the 45% modulation in the upper range that was once mooted, we would now have a difference of 35% to 55%.
That would not be so great.
We are therefore looking to the Commission to make proposals towards reform in the near future, which, as Mr Cohn-Bendit has said, will make enlargement both possible and stable.
We also believe the proposal to make direct payments to semi-subsistence farmers is a sensible one, but we suggest this be raised from EUR 750 to EUR 1 500.
That would entitle 5-6 ha holdings to the full compensation payment.
In Poland that would be approximately 50% of holdings.
So it includes the phasing-in, the social component.
We can see there is room for manoeuvre here.
Something we particularly welcome and call for is greater investment in the second pillar when money is reallocated.
That is money that is needed first and foremost in the candidate countries.
It is palpably obvious that rural areas there need development.
Commissioner Fischler, I am referring here once again - as I think Mr Görlach has already done - to the 'bottom-up' approach and to our Sapard programme in Leader form, where the Commission has so far stubbornly refused to underpin this with legislation.
We say it is urgently necessary that civil forces in the candidate countries should also be involved in the work of these projects so that people will feel happier about the European Union and we can lean back rather more contentedly and calmly when they come to vote on it.
So I urge you once again, Commissioner Fischler, to get your bureaucracy moving.
There are precedents.
You only need to follow them.
And we are always ready to help you.
