Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is seriously concerned about political and economic developments in the Republic of Moldavia, as my colleague Mr Patten made clear at his meeting with the Moldavian foreign secretary, Mr Dudeu, last month.
We therefore welcome this resolution by the European Union.
Moldavia is the poorest country in Europe and is still no closer to resolving its conflict with the rebel region of Transdnistria.
The Moldavian Government has refused to meet representatives of Transdnistria since last summer and a bitter fight is waging over border controls in which Ukraine has also been caught up.
An uneasy air of confrontation has recently arisen between the Communist Government of the Republic of Moldavia and the Romanian-speaking nationalists.
The reform process is suffering from constant setbacks and the IMF has refused to grant any more loans.
In the meantime, there are also worrying indications that the government is looking to Russia to resolve its problems.
The main reasons for the country's poverty are of a political nature.
The failure to resolve the Transdnistrian conflict is having a particularly serious impact.
The European Union is currently examining how it can support OSCE efforts to improve the situation.
We have set up a relatively generous aid programme.
A provisional sum of around EUR 40 million has been set aside to support this country over the next two years with technical assistance, food aid and special macro-economic financial aid.
However, we need a guarantee that Moldavia will also make an effort to put its finances on a more viable basis.
It is true that ECHO has pulled out of Moldavia because ECHO's job is to provide emergency aid, not resolve structural problems.
But even if ECHO's work can be continued using other instruments, such as TACIS, we must not forget that aid alone will not resolve political problems.
In any event, the Commission is willing and able to see what measures can be taken with the means available to help resolve the Transdnistrian conflict.
