Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is one of Parliament's prime functions to scrutinise and control the EU's Budget, and, in doing this, greater attention urgently needs to be given to how the equal opportunities policy is to be financed in the European Social Fund's 2000-2006 programming period.
The Spanish President of the Council, in his presentation to the committee, expressed the intention of giving equal opportunities policy a fixed place as a mainstream function in the complex of employment and social affairs.
That has also become a necessity, as the figures show that only 6% of the resources in the European Social Fund are allocated to special measures relating to equal opportunities, whereas Parliament had asked for 15%.
The underutilisation of resources and the great extent to which resources have been transferred is a consequence of the problems accompanying the Structural Funds' initial operations in the programming period 2000-2006.
Procedures for structural measures had to be rationalised and simplified, as they are too complex at both Community and national level, and we must now work on preventing the recurrence of such difficulties when the new programmes are to be set up in the future.
The evaluation report on the Daphne programme became available only yesterday.
What particularly interests me in it is the reasons for the low take-up of the payment authorisations in the Budget year 2000.
What is most important is that women play an important role in sustainable development, and gender issues should therefore be taken into account at every stage of planning, implementing and evaluating development cooperation.
I therefore request clarification as to how it is that payments for this accounted for only 59% of resources.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities focuses on just a few Budget items, but they are all the more important for enabling the objectives of equal opportunities policy to continue to be pursued in the EU.
