Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, representatives of the Commission, this House has already seen lengthy discussions of whether or not there ought to be an institution or fund with the specific purpose of giving aid in times of catastrophe.
It must be said in all honesty that many of us were sceptical, believing that it would prove to be a drain on our resources, but the great disaster over the past few weeks has, I believe, convinced us that solidarity is a proper response to such calamities.
This is not just about financial support for countries that suddenly find themselves faced with a gigantic task; it is also - as already mentioned - a spiritual and moral issue, and also one on which this European Union of ours, which no longer evokes great enthusiasm, can gain added public support if it shows that it is acting in a spirit of solidarity.
My group is therefore unambiguously in favour of the creation of a new financial instrument with all the precautions that honesty requires that we take in a disaster situation.
Firstly, the disasters concerned must be of major dimensions, and we must not encourage the delusion that we can supplant the efforts of the nation states; we can and must supplement them, but that is no substitute for effort at a national level.
I would like again to underline what Commissioner Barnier said with reference to prevention.
Not only must we - where this is possible - provide for a return to the natural state, but we must also put preventive measures in place using all our technical knowledge, as for example happened in my home city of Vienna, where we have again been spared disaster.
What this means is that the states cannot take it for granted that they will keep getting money when disasters strike, and then, for years on end, carry on with planning and population policies that have failed utterly.
The last point I would like to make has already been mentioned a couple of times, but it cannot be too clearly emphasised, namely, that we must help speedily.
I know we all have certain time limits to keep to and so on, but I see some plans which state that the present is perhaps to arrive before Christmas or only after it, when it is too late.
It is too late for people to have an experience of the European Union as a real help.
So I am asking everybody in Parliament, but especially the Commission, to prepare matters as speedily as possible and in so efficient a manner that both the Council and Parliament can give their prompt agreement.
If we can tell people that this has been done, then, I believe, it will be with greater enthusiasm that they will be able to say 'yes' to this European Union of ours.
