Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's resolution on the Aviation Safety Agency is one of the first of many decisions that we have to take in the area of air transport.
A lot is moving in the skies above Europe.
The crisis in air transport following 11 September appears in the meantime to have been almost overcome.
Movements of aircraft are expected to double again by 2015.
The restructuring of air transport is in full swing.
The political response to these challenges is represented primarily by the Single European Sky and the optimisation of capacities at airports.
The present time demands continuity in the midst of change.
Safety in the air must be the highest priority in air transport.
Previous strategies to harmonise technical regulations have not been able to keep up with the breakneck pace of developments in the air transport sector.
This is another reason why we need the European Aviation Safety Agency, which is to be the heart of a future unitary safety framework.
I am glad that we have found a European response in this sensitive area.
We can chalk it up as a success in our negotiations with the Council and the Commission that it will be only a year after the Regulation enters into force that requirements for the operation of aircraft and for the approval of aircrew are timetabled to be drawn up, and that these measures are also to be applied to aircraft from third countries.
Safety aspects of airports are also to be included.
Turning to the agency's accountability, Parliament has succeeded in giving it greater independence, including from the Commission.
It has also been laid down that Member States are to make an appropriate contribution when external delegations of the Agency are set up on their territory - a contribution which I think Parliament will take to be financial in nature.
As a whole, discussion of the EASA shows that what we actually needed from the Commission is a framework directive on European agencies that would respond to the horizontal issues concerning a unitary structure for agencies.
It is still unsatisfactory that the problem of budgeting for agencies' income could not be resolved as the Committee on Budgetary Control would wish.
The Aviation Safety Agency will be followed by others, dealing for example with the safety of railways and ships.
I consider this overall strategy to be suited to advance the integration of European transport markets.
