Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group, I wish to thank Mr Casaca for this report and also make it abundantly clear that we support him, even on those points where the Commission thinks it can make distinctions between control measures and anti-fraud measures.
According to your institution's information, losses of EUR 430 million were sustained in this area last year, which means that it is not we who suffered, but those sitting up there - the taxpayers of this European Union of ours.
When we talk about how we should reform agricultural policy in Europe, as the Commission recently proposed, in order thereby to bring agricultural policy closer to the public, and in this case, closer to the taxpayers - something to which Mrs Schierhuber, a farmer herself, referred, and on which point I wish to give her my support - we have to distance ourselves from such quibbles about what is control, and what is directed against fraud.
It is therefore my view that the Commission would have been well-advised to follow our thinking, which is that of the rapporteur and of the Committee on Budgetary Control, and, in the final analysis, give these measures the legal basis of the protection of the Community's financial interests.
We have already given some thought to how we could put a stop to export refunds, especially in the area of live cattle exports.
The images we see of Mediterranean harbours, which our young people get to see, are far from being an advertisement for this agricultural policy and far from being an advertisement for the European Union.
That is something we have to do away with, and there have been amendments on the subject tabled by this House in this Budget.
Let me say loud and clear that, in the preliminary draft budget, the Commission has given us no support.
The amendments will be back, and we can then expect more cooperation in the future, for, in this Parliament, which makes it its business to monitor the budget, we are well aware that this system of export refunds cannot be made immune to fraud.
On the contrary, such a thing is impossible.
The system of agricultural export refunds as currently practised is an invitation to fraud.
That is a challenge, and I see the debate on the choice between Article 37 or Article 280 from the Treaties as purely academic.
Ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, we, who talk more to the people who live alongside us, eat and drink with us and pay us taxes, cannot afford that for the future.
Here the wholehearted support for our rapporteur and for his report.
