Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up on what was said this morning.
I believe that transatlantic relations are regularly subjected to crucial tests.
What we are experiencing now is nothing new; it is not a new conflict.
Steel is an old chestnut.
As many Members have already indicated, we need to proceed with sufficient toughness.
But we should also be guided by reason, wisdom and far-sightedness.
The President-in-Office of the Council has pointed out that our relations are historical ones and that we have many values in common, but that we need to shift from a crisis situation to a process of dialogue.
I would certainly support him in that.
However, this also means that the Council needs to consider new initiatives.
It was the Spanish Presidency that established the new transatlantic agenda.
I believe that the Spanish Presidency should also undertake an analysis and a review and present new proposals at the next summit.
I would like to ask what work you have done on this so far and what the nature of the Spanish Presidency's proposals will be.
We need an update, as James Elles said this morning.
We need an EU strategy that goes beyond what we have at present.
The Commission proposal is good, but it does not go far enough, and it does not cover all factors.
In particular, it does not include a sufficiently clear EU strategy.
Commissioner Lamy said today that he is investigating several areas, including intellectual property and the auditing of accounts.
In my own report, which I shall be presenting on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy together with James Elles for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, I shall be presenting some proposals on this.
In particular, you will be interested to see that economic relations are very close and that in many sectors it is already fair to talk about a transatlantic market.
That does not of course mean that trade conflicts can just be glossed over, quite the opposite.
A small delegation of us will be in Toledo on Monday, and the topic of relations between the USA and the WTO will be on the agenda.
I would be grateful if you could briefly say something more about our approach at that meeting.
