Mr President, years ago, the European Commission undertook that it would commit itself to the local dimension of European employment policy.
There were, unfortunately, no additional financial resources; these had to come out of the European Social Fund.
Parliament sees local employment markets as having priority.
They make substantial contributions to improving the conditions under which people work, to improvements in services, in the social economy, in the third sector, both in centres of population and in regions to which access is difficult.
They improve the start-up conditions for new businesses, not only in the regional domestic market, but also at the national and international level.
The under-representation of women, to which Mr De Rossa has referred, means that effective measures need at last to be taken to support them in all positions in businesses.
Integration is being promoted.
Marginalised groups and the socially disadvantaged such as old people, the unemployed, and people with disabilities, find entry into local labour markets easier.
Territorial Employment Pacts, in which towns and local authorities cooperate, are equally noteworthy.
Dialogue is taking place between the social partners.
What is missing, though, is the purposeful exchange of experiences and best practices across national borders.
In order to make more effective use of the potential of local and regional jobs, we need employment strategies by the social partners in enterprises - of which Mr Menrad gave a very good example - and on the part of the authorities.
Aid on the spot can certainly be provided by development agencies, observatories - including via the EU's Socrates and Leonardo programmes - by community initiatives and by the Structural Funds' support of employment services.
The concept of lifelong learning will then help with adaptation to technological change and with the acquisition of new knowledge.
I expressly refer to my fellow MEP Mrs Lulling by supporting the demand in Mr Schmid's very fine report for a marked increase in financial resources for education and for its content to be of the best possible quality.
