Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this evening's debate is about something that was the Council's sole request, namely the question of how to introduce transparency and the statistical dimension into the agricultural alcohol sector.
I am extraordinarily grateful to our rapporteur, Mrs Ayuso González, who has made exemplary use of the limited room for manoeuvre available to Parliament.
We would, Commissioner, have liked to reject the Commission proposal as a whole, as it took no account whatever of the Council's request.
Close cooperation with all concerned parties has enabled the rapporteur to lay before us a genuine compromise on which all of them were able to agree.
Thirty years of discussions have now got us to the point where we can give this sector a regulation that provides for the required statistical surveys, and does so primarily within the framework of a simple Council regulation.
Secondly, this regulation does not, in essence, call for any statements on aid legislation.
Thirdly, it includes industrially produced alcohol, agricultural alcohol's direct competitor.
As a matter of urgency, I appeal to the Commission to stop resisting this compromise approach.
In the event of a qualified majority in Council, it has previously been the practice for the Commission not to insist on a unanimous vote unless there are legal difficulties, but, in this instance, there is no sound reason to insist on unanimity.
The Commission's instruments are perfectly adequate for the purpose of monitoring this sector, in which no distortions of competition occur.
Not one of the candidate countries wants to adopt or copy the German model which is the subject of this dispute.
If the Commission holds fast to its legal position, then I appeal in equally urgent terms to the Spanish President of the Council.
When it comes to the interests of German distillers and the interests of our cultural landscape, I appeal to Mrs Künast, the German Federal Minister for Consumer Protection, Food and Agriculture, to vote on 27 June in such a way as to achieve unanimity in this matter.
Throughout long negotiations, Parliament has done everything in its power, and now we are counting on your support.
