Mr President, Commissioner, today we are debating a subject that affects every consumer, every citizen in the European Union.
It affects all our guests and, as far as the industry is concerned, it affects a great many jobs and a great many small and medium-sized businesses, not just in the countries in which the cars are produced, but throughout Europe.
I too am affected and I shudder when I think of my last service bill, which was extortionate.
That is why I am most grateful to the Commissioner for this courageous draft in favour of more competition.
We have included a number of factors in this positive proposal, such as uncoupling sales and servicing and multiple brand sales, the location clause will be dropped and garages must be provided with information.
So there will be much more competition here and I am most grateful to you for that, Commissioner Monti.
I am also most grateful to you for arranging such an intensive dialogue with Parliament, for exchanging views with us and for stressing time and again that Parliament's support is very important to you.
For that too I am most grateful to you.
We have a situation here in which the industry stands on one side, the consumers, whose rights we are strengthening, stand on the other, with the dealers sandwiched in between.
It may well be that the dealers will suffer most.
I personally lobbied in committee in favour of strengthening dealers' rights - and I am most grateful to Mr Konrad for his support here - by including an investment protection clause, for example.
One point under discussion is the transitional period for the location clause and the question of a review.
I think there is no need to stress out about the review.
If we opt today for a specific transitional period and if we are convinced today that it may not work, then we should say so in no uncertain terms, we should state our reasons and then those of us who said as much today will be able to say we were right all along.
It may be a way of introducing competition here, but if we are talking about a transitional period, then we should not shy away from a review.
The European Parliament will come to its decision tomorrow and I for one would be delighted if the Commission, starting with Commission President Prodi, were to respect the vote of the only elected representatives of the people of Europe, even though we are not officially involved in the decision-making process here.
