Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think the Environment Committee has produced a very fine opinion on Mr Bradbourn's report.
The ladies and gentlemen in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism are, alas, not as ecologically aware as their colleagues in the Environment Committee, but, after all, one has a bit less of a grasp of things one does not spend that much of one's time dealing with.
We are, however, of one mind when it comes to being ready to promote the development of transport links with the countries bordering on the EU and between the EU's Member States, which I consider to be most important in terms of the enlargement of the European Union.
Yet the Environment Committee has scored one major success in that the Transport Committee now accepts that the results of the strategic environmental impact assessments should be binding on the actual processes of implementation.
Only on the connection between health issues and transport issues are they evidently unwilling to think more deeply.
It is the case in all the Member States that transport accidents, above all road traffic accidents, are a major cause of death and serious injury.
Air transport contributes significantly to air pollution.
A considerable number of people in Europe are exposed to levels of traffic noise which are not only a serious nuisance and a cause of disturbed sleep, but also lead to communication problems and, in children, even to genuinely serious mental disturbance.
We are keen to discuss all this in depth, but there was a lack of willingness to take the Environment Committee's opinion that seriously on these points.
Good things take time, though, and there will no doubt be another opportunity for the Environment Committee to have its say on transport issues.
Certainly, nothing in human affairs can be seen only in black and white, and we all know that a very great part of our freedom and our prosperity is tied up with transport - be it by air, on the roads or on rail - but we should be responsible in all that we do.
