Mr President, I have learned the wisdom and educational value of tempering criticism with praise.
For this reason, Commissioner De Palacio, let me begin with a word of praise.
It is gratifying that we have finally managed to engage in a very early and timely debate on a strategic plan and that this dialogue between the Commission and Parliament and the specialised committee within Parliament has been launched in sufficiently good time.
I refer expressly to these two institutions, because the role of the Council, in my view, may be disregarded.
In Barcelona, we saw that the Council sets its own agenda and does what it wants and acts as a higher-grade specialised council.
That is why the dialogue between you, Commissioner De Palacio, as the representative of the Commission, and Parliament is the only one that counts in this context.
And then comes the criticism, but I can even present that in a favourable light.
Commissioner De Palacio, if you ever see a job vacancy that involves selling a defective product, apply for it.
You would give it your best shot.
You have tried to do your best for a document that I did not understand.
I marvel at anyone who has read this document and understood the message that is locked within its sentences.
I reflected on ways of sniffing something out of this text.
Would a guide dog help?
Or how about a Saint Bernard that can detect signs of life below an avalanche?
Some kind of tracker dog is needed, Commissioner De Palacio.
The Commission has managed to pepper this document with every conceivable reference.
The term 'consumer protection' crops up, and the concept of sustainability pops up here, there and everywhere, wherever it can possibly be squeezed in - sustainable transport, a sustainable economy, sustainable everything.
But the document did not reveal to me what you actually intend to do and what your priorities are.
At no point could I grasp what your real priorities are.
Yes, there is enlargement, and yes, there is sustainable economic growth, perhaps security and stability too.
But how you intend to achieve these things, Commissioner De Palacio, is concealed beneath a veneer of ornate prose.
So when you return to the Commission, tell your fellow Commissioners what we shall all no doubt be telling them personally: they need to do their homework better next year.
The challenge for us as a Parliament is now to take this skeleton you have presented to us and flesh it out with meaningful substance.
If this were a piece of schoolwork, it would be returned with the comment 'A good effort, but improvement is needed for next time'.
And that is my message to you.
