Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by expressing my sincere thanks to all the honourable Members whose hard work and constructive attitudes have brought us to this point.
It is unquestionable that the prevention of epizootic diseases which lead to food crises is of great importance, not only to the future of European farming but also to the entire population of Europe.
The crucial task now is to find a suitable means of meeting the needs of a multifunctional agricultural system as well as those of consumers.
In accordance with the subsidiarity principle, I therefore call for the preservation of the tried and tested national systems for the disposal and recycling of organic waste.
The collection and use of biogenetic waste for the purposes of composting or for use in a biogas plant are highly commendable from an environmental point of view and must therefore remain possible in future.
In Austria in particular we have found these processes extremely useful.
I should also like to address the extremely controversial issue of recycled catering waste.
The Austrian example shows that application of the highest possible standards of hygiene, coupled with official monitoring, banishes any concerns regarding a possible risk of epizootic disease.
This has been confirmed once again in the recent past.
I would therefore regard a general ban on the use of pigswill for animal feed as an unduly draconian measure.
In addition, we must not forget the investments that have been made in the municipal collection of organic waste and in the officially licensed decoction facilities, investments made in the belief that the future lies in an exemplary system of environmental protection.
In recent years, 250 new decoction facilities have been built in Austria.
I shall therefore lend my support to all compromise amendments that guarantee the continued existence of proven monitored systems for the recycling of organic waste.
I consider it very important that we formulate our decisions on this sensitive subject in such a way that the general public can follow our reasoning.
The public would certainly not want to see the prohibition of an exemplary practice.
