Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my gratitude to the Commission for the initiative that they launched at the end of August, inaugurated by a visit to the affected areas and then by last week's special session of the Commission to fire the starting shot for the creation of the legal basis for aid to deal with this grave calamity.
Let me specifically mention in this connection Commissioner Fischler, who has rather less of a problem with budgets.
Not only does he have to make proposals, but he can at the same time take decisions via the Austrian Upper House.
It is a great help to the farmers affected by the floods that this has been done so quickly in the aftermath of the events.
Three things are needed.
Firstly, we must make emergency aid available, and do so quickly.
To do so is an expression of European solidarity.
I will deliberately emphasise that this must be quick and, indeed, immediate.
It will not be enough for people in the affected regions to be sitting in houses and dwellings that they have laboriously decorated, having put up a rough-and-ready Christmas tree, while we in this House are still discussing issues such as legal bases, reallocations and more of the same old thing.
Rapid emergency aid means that the procedure by which we act must be the speediest available - we in the PPE group propose that this be based on the procedure used in the 2002 Fourth Supplementary Budget - so that, by the end of October at the latest, funds of the order of EUR 1 billion can be on their way.
Secondly, the legal circumstances need to be created.
The Structural Fund - Michel Barnier has been mentioned - the law on subsidies and public procurement; all this has to be taken into consideration.
What we have to implement here is a complete package of legislation, in order that European law does not stand in the way of rapid reconstruction.
Thirdly, we have to equip ourselves to face the future.
How can we set up a disaster fund for the future?
That is the question.
We ought to do that calmly and unhurriedly, in order to get everything right in budgetary and legal terms.
If we do these three things, aid will get to people fast, and Europe will discharge its long-term responsibilities to its people.
