Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, rapporteurs, where its security and defence policy is concerned, Europe is definitely at a crossroads: either we allow ourselves to be forced, mainly by a few hardliners in the current US Government, into a course of action that would above all further deepen the crisis in the Middle East, or Europe has the courage and strength to break this vicious circle.
We can, indeed we must, have grave doubts about whether the regime in Iraq, which is certainly abhorrent, should be eliminated by external military means.
But both moral insight and political common sense mitigate strongly against intervening in Iraq for as long as Israel is not prepared to implement the United Nations resolutions and for as long as Israel is not prepared to allow the Palestinians to elect their political leadership freely and without external pressure.
Recent events show particularly clearly that the current government - and it is not the country of Israel as such - is unwilling to do its bit to break the spiral of violence and stabilise the region.
How much more reasonable and successful it would be surely to let our colleagues in the Palestinian Legislative Council get on with their legitimate political work.
It seems that the Sharon Government actually does not want democratic decision-making structures and free elections in Palestine at all.
The natural right of any government to defend itself against terrorism is often only used as a pretext.
The Middle East is a region whose security affects our security in Europe.
That is why Europe must defend itself against private terrorism, against unreasonable State military measures and unilateral, external interventions not backed by UN resolutions.
Only in this way can the right to sovereignty and internal self-determination be realised.
Following the general recognition of Israel, including by the Arab States, it is now time - decades after the founding of the State of Israel - for the second half of the UN resolution concerned to be implemented too, namely the creation of a Palestinian State.
The best and most successful way of putting an end to terrorism - and this, Mr President-in-Office, should be stated loud and clear - is to recognise those natural rights that are the prerogative of every people and every nation, including the Palestinians.
