Mr President, in all of the European Union's Equal Opportunities Action Programmes, for example the Fifth Action Programme for 2001 to 2005, great importance is attached to there being balanced representation of men and women in decision-making bodies.
While good statistics are available in parliaments and national institutions, there are still not any satisfactory surveys of the social partners.
In both the unions and the employers' organisations women in leadership roles are in a tiny minority.
There is no doubt that this needs to be changed, but please not at a snail's pace.
In the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, we have unanimously called on the social partners to set precise targets as soon as possible with a view to improving the quantitative and qualitative representation of women.
As part of this, deadlines should be agreed for their implementation.
Databases should be created so as finally to provide a precise overview of female representation in expert fora and decision-making bodies.
A further long overdue measure is the creation of posts for equal opportunities officers in all of the Member States.
Whenever change is initiated, however, intensive awareness-raising is required.
In training courses and at conferences on gender mainstreaming, women's structures in the social partners should be visible.
Positive measures need to be developed in the form of action programmes within organisations.
Women's networks should be created and should communicate with each other.
They should exchange experiences and pass on information about projects to each other.
These projects were successful and are therefore worth replicating and the others failed and we should try to understand what we can learn from them.
An important component is responsibility at executive level right up to the boardroom.
There are therefore sufficient reasons for drawing up this own-initiative report.
The vote in the Women's Rights Committee was unanimous and is testimony to the exemplary work of our rapporteur, Miet Smet.
I too can fully endorse this assessment of her report.
