Madam President, I hope we have all been able to fortify ourselves with the delicious Dutch herrings that have been provided for us.
I would like to thank Mr Albert Jan Maat from the bottom of my heart.
That was a great occasion, and I can only confirm - as I think you will too - that fish are a good thing.
I do not want to talk up the vote on stock rebuilding as the fateful question in the run-up to the fisheries reform, but I do hope that those who reject the Commission's proposal for a regulation as submitted, will after all agree to a compromise tomorrow morning, a compromise that would again permit hake alongside cod, just as the Commission had rightly proposed.
I, too, have had second thoughts in the meantime.
Like others, I still have hope, as I have in the meantime re-examined the matter; I have not done this completely off my own bat, but have taken scientific bases, ICES for example, as my starting point.
Who would seriously call their data into question?
Has the Commission submitted a proposal including measures to recover the stocks of cod and hake?
That stocks of both species are severely threatened has been disputed by nobody here this evening, and so, if we want to be consistent, hake must not be left out, and the sceptics should bear in mind that prevention is better than cure.
We have to get to grips with the biological realities and the problems nature creates for an exact analysis of the stock.
Fish swim.
That is why nobody can count their precise number, and also why casting doubt on ICES' recommendations is a popular sport.
We have for a considerable time been able to see where that leads, not only with cod and hake, and not only in European waters.
I would like fisheries to be economically sustainable, environmentally responsible and socially acceptable.
If this is to happen, our prime need is for healthy stocks.
Action is needed to break the vicious circle of more and better boats chasing fewer and fewer fish.
Now!
Excess capacity is being cut back in other sectors of the economy as well, and that is something that fisheries will, unfortunately, have to get used to, as European fisheries have to be maintained, but standing on their own feet, not kept alive by Europe, and not without fish in our own waters.
