Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express an opinion on the action plan as it relates to the preservation of biodiversity in the context of economic cooperation and as it relates to development cooperation.
We have already heard this evening that the greatest degree of biodiversity is to be found in the tropical regions of the developing countries.
These parts of the world have a wide range of crop plants, livestock, wild animals, etc.
Moreover - and this is equally important in our eyes - huge numbers of the local, the indigenous, populations are dependent on the existence of this biodiversity.
If the breadth of biodiversity is now reduced, if there are major erosions of the natural world, this will create a knock-on effect which will plunge the people of these tropical regions into poverty.
We also know that, unless action is taken to combat poverty, it becomes very difficult to raise and foster awareness of the need for biodiversity and sustainability.
This is why it is important that this action plan seeks to integrate the principle of preserving biodiversity into the development-cooperation programmes of the European Union.
This means supporting the sustainable use of natural resources, particularly forests, as well as more frequent recourse to environmental-impact assessments of planned development projects.
May I also express the support of my group for all those amendments which emphasise the fundamental role of indigenous populations and their social, economic and cultural rights?
Now that we are talking about biodiversity and, of course, sustainability too, I should not wish to miss this opportunity to say that we must also put our own house in order if we want to possess credibility in the eyes of the international community.
When I recall the discussions on the resolution concerning the Barcelona Summit, a resolution which referred quite clearly to specific projects in Europe that contravene the principle of biodiversity and fail to protect rare flora and fauna, I am persuaded that it is not enough for us here in Europe merely to keep tabling splendid resolutions designed to protect mountain gorillas in African forests but that we also need to engage wholeheartedly in the implementation of projects and of our own European programmes, such as Natura 2000.
