Mr President, to follow on from what you just said, a very good morning.
Perhaps this is also a sign of the new start which we are planning with the sixth research framework programme.
My thanks also to the rapporteur.
I do not say that merely as a courtesy because I think we have worked well together and have basically followed the rapporteur's line and I should like to make a point of thanking her for her initiative.
As far as these rules of participation are concerned, I would like to say that we have put a great deal of responsibility on the Commission and demanded a great deal from it.
I do not envy the Commission its task, because it will be no easy matter to implement the sixth research framework programme; you only have to think of the provision requiring the Commission to give reasons for any decision rejecting a proposal.
That is one of our old demands, but with several tens of thousands of projects, it places an enormous responsibility on the Commission.
If it succeeds here, my hat off to it, because this is certainly one reason why many people are still just as enthusiastic about taking part in the European research programme.
But it will not be easy.
The main difficulty with this sixth research framework programme is that so many Member States are taking part in it - fifteen Member States, plus the countries which want to join the European Union, plus the countries in the European Economic Area, plus Israel and, in the future, Switzerland too.
In other words, there are a great many participants and "managing" them, by which I mean implementing the research framework programme properly, will be no easy task.
I also understand why it wants to encourage projects, networks of excellence, integrated projects etc. which are as big as possible and presumably this will also be the future of the European research programme.
However, this means that other, mainly smaller projects will increasingly need to be taken over by the Member States and the regions, leading to a stricter division of labour between the European Union and the Member States.
I am absolutely delighted that the matter of the two-stage procedure has been described in greater detail.
I expect this two-stage procedure to lighten the load somewhat, depending on how it is implemented.
The Commission has a certain amount of experience here and I trust it will be able to improve on it.
The faster we implement the sixth research framework programme, the more money we shall save.
Parliament has made its contribution, and there is a consensus in favour.
The thing now is to hand out the money as quickly as possible and I wish you every success in doing so, Commissioner.
