Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I would like first to congratulate Mr Beazley on his report and thank him for his good cooperation.
This topic is, as my predecessor on the floor has confirmed, close to all our hearts.
There are many points on which we agree, such as trust being a better fundamental premise for this common endeavour than overall control or even censorship, neither of which would serve as a good basis for cooperation.
We also agree that we must advertise the hotlines more extensively in order for them to be used, as we desire, right across the whole of Europe, and in order for us to be able to establish where protection is needed.
We agree, too, that we have to provide parents with the right tools to enable them, together with their children, to assess which TV programmes, computer games, and films are the right ones for their children, and in order to support them in their judgment of the programmes.
On this I agree with Mrs Sanders-ten Holte, who spoke before me.
This is where moving closer on a European level to a uniform system of classification for the whole audio-visual sector seems to be of the greatest and most urgent importance, as that would be a tool facilitating control by parents and young people themselves, one that could also function on the basis of trust and not tend towards either excessive control or censorship.
I now come to what I believe is at the moment the most important point in connection with this 'box', namely that the Internet strikes many as a sort of 'wonderbox'; they stand in front of it and are simply overwhelmed by all the stuff that comes out of it, forgetting in the process what influences can come into play, especially on children and young people, if we do not consciously discern what is heading in our direction.
Let me emphasise it three times, four times, ten times over: media literacy.
Media literacy - we cannot start too soon on heightening awareness of it and on playing our part in developing it.
To do this, we also need not only the political willingness; we also need more programmes.
For them, we need money.
Perhaps we will achieve some sort of collaboration with all the players at the European level, something which is, at the end of the day, in the interests of all.
