Mr President, obtaining food supplements as health products from the Internet is not encouraged by this report.
I well understand the life stories of the individuals who are concerned by this directive, but my own experiences tell me something different.
In my opinion, substances that are used to treat and alleviate the symptoms of serious illnesses, of illnesses that may not yet be curable at the present time, should be covered by legislation on medicinal products and have nothing to do with the consumption of foodstuffs.
In other words, products with pharmaceutical ingredients which are advertised as possessing medicinal powers must be subject to licensing as medicinal products.
The aim of the directive is to harmonise maximum permissible quantities of active ingredients throughout the 15 Member States and to improve national conditions on the basis of criteria relating to the harmlessness of products to human health as a preventive measure of consumer protection.
The national food and pharmaceuticals industries are vying for an extremely lucrative market in foodstuffs enriched with active ingredients.
A new type of food product is being advertised here, and the advertisements often focus on additional health- and performance-enhancing qualities, sometimes proven but often imputed, of these products.
I believe that it is important and that it befits our responsibility to ensure that the line between medicinal and food products does not become blurred or negotiable.
In this expanding market, the pharmaceuticals and foodstuffs industries will move heaven and earth to enrich food products with additives which are not naturally found in those products.
The report is based on transparency, disclosure and safety for consumers.
For this reason I support it.
The directive will never absolve patients and consumers, however, from the imperative obligation to read the small print: 'If in doubt, please consult your doctor or pharmacist'.
This is why scientists and researchers have a legal entitlement to improve this common position.
