Mr President, we have, in the European Union, an internal market, and a unitary currency in twelve of its Member States, but we do not have a communitarised European economic and fiscal policy and nor do we have a policy on employment.
This is our fundamental dilemma.
Opinions will differ to a marked degree as regards the Guidelines.
If we make growth our priority, we can discuss whether or not it presupposes a high rate of employment, which makes for greater purchasing power and hence strengthens domestic demand.
We can discuss whether to roll back supply-side economic policies a bit in favour of those that are demand-driven, but we will not solve the problem if we do not sort out communitarised policies.
The Member States are jostling for position among themselves, which means that a common framework needs to be laid down, at any rate to provide guidelines for economic policy.
How much can or should be budgeted for expenditure on investments?
Is it really necessary - as is stated in the text - to prioritise the reduction of outgoings, or can we not change the revenue side by means of tax justice?
Why does tax law not treat partnerships and corporate enterprises equally?
Why is it that not every business or private individual pays tax on the profits it or they make?
It is frameworks such as these that we can lay down and thereby enable there to be a level playing field in every country.
The question we have to ask ourselves - which I think Mr Karas framed in an improper way - is not to do with the Left wanting to engage in social policy as against economic policy or to oppose employment with stability.
Good employment policy and low unemployment are merely the precondition for growth actually being achieved.
We get growth only if the products that are manufactured are capable of being sold.
That means that the two are linked together.
That is why we have to give some thought to how to fit economic and social policies together much better, rather than setting them up in opposition to each other.
