Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concerns, desires and worries of young people must be taken seriously, and so I welcome Mrs Gröner's report on the Commission's White Paper for Europe's young people.
It is proposed that greater account should be taken of young people's needs when framing measures in different policy areas in the European Union.
We must give young people the opportunity to demonstrate active commitment by getting involved in public life.
In Germany, the Pisa survey came up with some sobering results.
It is for that reason that I advocate a reform of schools policy which would have to incorporate the aspirations of students and young people.
I do think that young people's participation in public life is especially important.
Today, young people are involving themselves less and less in traditionally structured organisations such as political parties and trade unions.
This is seen especially in the extent to which young people take part in elections at national and European level.
It is young people in particular whom we must encourage to stand as candidates at local, national and European level, and we must actively support them in doing so.
I urge that young people's votes and opinions on political matters should not be shrugged off as an irrelevance.
I find it particularly regrettable that the Commission White Paper devotes too little space to the gender angle, an aspect that I believe cannot be excluded from consideration.
Young women must be promoted in every respect, as women still do not have the same opportunities as men in the labour market.
Top jobs are mainly held by men.
The unemployment rate is higher in Europe for women and women earn on average less than their male colleagues.
I commit myself to women getting the same opportunities as men in the labour market.
I am glad that the fight against racism is given an important place in the White Paper.
This is especially important in view of the way in which people are discriminated against on the basis of their different skin colour or of their belonging to an ethnic or religious minority.
We have to encourage young people to reach out to other cultures, which I am convinced leads to each enriching the other.
Dialogue promotes mutual understanding among peoples in the cause of peace.
I am committed to people in Europe not only living alongside each other, but, above all, being able to live with each other.
Our willingness to reach out to those who are different or foreign gains us a view of the world that is cosmopolitan and tolerant.
Youth policy must be accorded a particular value at national and European level, and this means that schemes for young people need to be appropriately financially resourced.
I consider it particularly important that Community programmes should give adequate support to projects that benefit young people.
Our European home must not be built without taking into account the concerns of young people, and so I urge that their conceptions of Europe's future should have an influence on the Convention.
If we ignore young people's interests, our European home will rest on unsteady foundations, for the young of today are tomorrow's future!
