Mr President, of firsts there is no end.
There are not even any visitors to welcome here today.
There was similar silence yesterday in Yokohama, from where I have just returned.
What we are doing here today does not require 70 000 spectators.
But zero remains zero and gives clear expression to the fact that we have failed to give Parliament even the minimum of information.
That there are only three Members in their seats to hear this debate shows how Parliament itself values this report.
If the Rules of Procedure were reformed and people knew what we are doing here - and above all what we are failing to do here - then this place would be full to overflowing.
The question is for how long we will be reforming ourselves and how quickly we are going about it, and is that the topic for debate?
It is indeed the topic for debate, Mr President, for Euratom is doing the very same that we are doing here in this Parliament in which we hide ourselves away, where we do so much to ensure that nobody hears us doing it.
It is subject to no proper democratic control, and, whilst the context of course makes fundamental criticism difficult, some aspects of Mr Rübig's report are definitely praiseworthy.
By that I mean item 16, item 17 and most of all item 13, because there at least the attempt is made, albeit in typical fashion, to put a finger on the spots that have just been described.
Item 13 makes it very clear that Euratom functions undemocratically, without either transparency or accountability.
Unless one knows Parliamentary practices and perhaps also certain usages in debate behind closed doors, it is very difficult to track the thinking behind items 1, 2 and 3.
If we have so much material unaccounted for, how can we, on that basis, say that the job is done well, very well, because none of it has come to light?
If we carry on in this fashion, then not only will our work continue to be undermined, but so will what perhaps makes sense of the use of nuclear energy, and that brings me to my ceterum censeo.
Mr President, there is no democracy without transparency!
