Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to use this speech to dwell on depictions of the disadvantages under which women labour in developing countries or elsewhere, which have often been described.
I believe we are familiar enough with the problem.
The Commission is pursuing the implementation of the principle of gender mainstreaming - and, indeed, so is Parliament, as the two rapporteurs have reiterated.
Looking, though, at the resources that are made available for this purpose, I ask myself how it is to be achieved.
Gender mainstreaming is a top-down process, one that presupposes that the necessary raising of awareness and opportunities for training take place or are present within the organisations or authorities in question - in this case, the Commission.
We are well aware, though, of the substantial personnel shortage that exists in this field of work.
Unless there has been significant change in the meantime, we only have one national expert from Sweden who is at all involved in the area of women and development cooperation.
This is a lamentable state of affairs, one that we have been complaining of for years, and we have, unfortunately, seen no changes in it to date.
We do not weary of emphasising that the key to development is in the hands of women, but we have not the remotest possibility of being able even to start to put that into practice.
Commissioner Schreyer, please take note of how those very people who are responsible here for development cooperation are profoundly disappointed that what we have described in many papers - and on which there is, as is well known, a programme - stands not the remotest chance of being implemented in a truly satisfactory way.
There really have to be some changes here.
It is also, let it be added, in Europe's interest, for if we support the empowerment of women in the developing countries, that forms part of the emancipation of the European area and will also in part alleviate the problems we still have to deal with today.
If women are not empowered, if they are not given the tools for development, then development simply will not happen!
