Mr President, whilst the Budget Memorandum for 2003 still leaves many questions open, the economic situation in 2002 is becoming clearer and it is easier to get an overall view of it.
I believe that it is not only in Germany that the goal of stabilising euroland by not exceeding a public debt of 3% of gross domestic product is in danger of being missed.
The absence of 2%-3% annual economic growth means that grossly excessive unemployment figures can no longer be artificially covered up.
This makes it all the more understandable that the backlog of Structural Funds is being treated as if the funds were not there.
The prospect of actually successfully solving the problem of mass unemployment in the coming fourth quarter is made fainter by mounting indirect labour costs and the failure of the European Union, among others, to solve the problems caused by distortions of competition.
I also believe that the days of public jubilation at the freedom apparently won through globalisation are over.
The 2003 budget will instead be measured against the yardstick of seriousness, transparency and honesty.
I can recall that Parliament was always more than merely critical of the annual accumulation of financial resources from the Structural Funds.
What is decisive for the public's sense of belonging is what goes down well with them.
The Commission's non-existent policy on non-existent Structural Funds does little to promote a feeling of belonging on the part of the European Union's citizens.
The winter months are going to be the most difficult in economic terms for a long time.
The many pledges made in the wake of the flood disaster must at last be worked off at a more rapid pace.
If they are not, there is a growing danger of those aspects of land use for which we have already accorded financial assistance from the sources available triggering substantial conflicts between business, transport, housing, leisure and tourism at the various structural levels.
The situation is grave, and I assume that it is known that the public are seeing the gap between income and expenditure narrowing still further.
They need the money that is kept in Brussels.
