Mr President, I support this resolution by the PPE-DE, PSE, Liberals and the UEN.
I see it as a particularly good thing that, at the start of the joint resolutions, we are emphasising the values which Europe and Latin America share, as it is important that we see this partnership not only in an economic light, but that we can also speak of our common values and their consequences in political terms.
I believe that certain elements which the Greens have tried to introduce are also positive - for example, that we should have more to say about sustainability.
Overall, though, the Greens' resolution, and that of the UEN, are too negative, with their opposition to the USA, to globalisation, and to free trade, which I do not think gets us very far.
We need here a balanced relationship between constructive cooperation and justified criticism of details.
I expressly support what Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra had to say about the Budget.
Nothing is achieved by much talking and putting on great summits and at the same time allocating less money.
That is what the Commission has proposed over and over again in the last few years.
Over and over again, we have prevented it, but the Commission really should, for once, come up with constructive proposals at the outset.
Mrs Malmström and Mr Queiró had a certain amount to say about Cuba.
I believe it to be of the utmost importance that we should avoid sending the wrong signals to Cuba at the present time when people there are calling loud and clear for democracy.
We are of course opposed to the embargo, but we also oppose dictatorship and the violation of human rights.
That is why dialogue with the European Union can gain Cuba concessions only if the situation there as regards democracy and human rights improves.
I would like to conclude with the suggestion that, in opening up markets, we should focus above all on the poorer countries of Latin America.
I believe we can agree on mutual free trade with both Mexico and Chile, but perhaps not with the same timetable, but with countries such as Nicaragua, Honduras and Bolivia, we should also prioritise unilateral preferences, and I believe that these countries have the same right to preferential treatment as most of the ACP states.
I think the dialogue should give more attention to that.
