Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the great merit of Mrs Izquierdo Rojo's report is that it has triggered another wide-ranging debate about the influence of religious fundamentalism on the emancipation of women.
On behalf of the Socialist Group, I welcome the report, which emphasises Europe's responsibility for ensuring respect for fundamental rights and democratic principles as well as the secularity of nation states.
Throughout the world, however, women's rights are being restricted or breached on the pretext of religious or cultural traditions or the law.
This does not apply only to Islamists, but also to other religious groups.
After difficult negotiations, the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities is proposing more than 30 paragraphs of specific measures, which have met with the agreement of four groups.
We deeply regret the fact that of all groups the Christian-Democratic Group was not prepared to take part in compromise negotiations.
The rapporteur was willing to do so.
The need to fight against the suppression mechanisms of the fundamentalists should, after all, be the subject of a consensus.
The Afghan Taliban provided us with an example of how they first jettisoned women's rights, then forced women to wear the burka, and finally denied them education and medical care and cut them off from any kind of paid employment.
In a joint declaration, the Women's Rights Committee in the European Parliament and the women of the Council of Europe call for an international group of female observers to be set up to see that Afghan women have their unrestricted human rights restored to them.
We condemn any kind of fundamentalism, offence or crime for reasons of so-called honour, such as stoning or genital mutilation or withholding reproductive rights, and that includes in Europe.
Within the EU, we need to influence immigration laws and asylum policy so that reasons for persecution which are gender-specific or not related to a particular state are recognised.
In my country this is the subject of a major debate and there too it is the Christian-Democratic Group which is refusing to compromise.
