Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that the proposal for a regulation, which the Commission submitted almost a year ago now, is a good and reasonable compromise between the conflicting interests that there have been in the Commission and in the Member States.
What shows that it is not such a bad compromise is the fact that these conflicting interests and views were also, of course, present in Parliament and in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, and our agreeing, the second time around, to support this very Commission proposal, which is nearly a year old, says something about the proposal.
We - by which I mean my group - will in any case, when we eventually come to vote, be supporting it without amendment, and we will keep to what we agreed in committee.
That notwithstanding, whereas Mr Novelli made a few critical comments from his standpoint, I do so, of course, from my own, for any agreement on the details does not indeed prevent us from having outlooks that differ overall.
If the translation is accurate, Mr Novelli, you twice spoke in terms of the Commission proposal envisaging the cessation of production subsidies in 2007.
That is not actually the case; rather, production subsidies are to continue until 2010.
That is right and proper.
Closure aid is to come to an end in 2007.
I do, though, have a small problem with that, in that, in view of our desire for a strategic base of this sort and, of course in retrospect, the need for capacity to be adjusted as well, I can very well imagine that we will also need aid for closure and reconstruction, especially if it is maintained that this base, too, has to be underpinned by laws on the grant of aid.
No single Member State, no matter which one, can do as it pleases about this, but it must, both before and after 2010, be monitored by the Commission in accordance with the laws on subsidies.
I have a few difficulties with the phasing out of aid as well.
It is indeed the case that they have to be marked down on a sliding scale.
What the Commission is proposing appears to me to be a bit too mechanical.
On this point, I would recommend to the Council that they should just think a bit about whether they can refer back to what the ECJ decided when they ruled on the subject in 1998.
My last point has to do with the clause about the post-2007 assessment, which was mentioned in the proposal.
We should think again about that as well; otherwise, our approval of the Commission proposal is unconditional.
