Commissioner, today I have to accuse you of hostility to industry.
What do you actually think will happen to European industry now?
First we are told that, yes, the end will be in 1998, then it is 2000, next 2002, and now you come along with a presentation and have absolutely nothing to say.
How on earth do you think industrialists work?
Such a thing could only occur to a functionary who has never had to put even a brass farthing into his own industry.
The potential has been there for ages for European industry to have a whole new boom in cosmetics.
It is you who have prevented it!
In 1996, four million people signed up; they were artists and beautiful women who like using cosmetics.
Now you come along and tell us that, in the European Union, we do not want to torture animals any more; instead, we will do it just over the border.
This Parliament, the artists, the beautiful women - how stupid do you think we are?
What do you take us for?
Do you really think we are the sort of racists and xenophobes who will not have dumb beasts tormented here in the European Union, but will let it happen to dogs in Hungary or Poland?
That strikes me as monstrous, and as an insult to the four million people who signed their names to protest against such things.
You know, there is a fine saying to the effect that 'the day will come when men will look upon the murder of animals as they now look upon the murder of men.'
That was not said by some crazy animal rights activist, but by Leonardo da Vinci, perhaps the greatest artist who ever lived.
Never again, Commissioner, will you be referred to in the same sentence as Leonardo da Vinci.
You are certainly not a great artist, you are certainly not sensitive, but I do think you might have some idea of what we are talking about today.
I would like to thank Mrs Roth-Behrendt for what she has achieved, and especially also Mrs Christina García-Orcoyen.
An alliance the like of which you rarely come across, and I think that you, Commissioner, should be afraid of them.
