Mr President, I am pleasantly surprised that, as delegation leader Mr Galeote, you too have asked to speak on fisheries today.
You even have three minutes, time enough to score an equaliser, I think.
This official support - I trust you are indeed supporting the reform, Mr Galeote - would be most welcome from all the honourable Members.
Unfortunately, the fishing boat appears to have no one at the helm and there is a storm brewing, and not just in the Committee on Fisheries, unfortunately!
Perhaps in future every Member of this House could explain exactly which hat they are wearing when they address us.
Now to you, Mr Fischler.
Who, apart from you, will be our contact in your directorate-general in future, now that your important colleague is - not to put too fine a point on it - in the political wilderness?
And can we really expect the taxpayer to pay for people to move into consultancy posts when no one succeeds to office?
Who, at long last, is going to give me, is going to give all of us the data and facts we need if we are to back the reform?
Please, we need to see your figures and how you arrived at them.
With all these attacks going on, we need answers.
Having said which, may I ask you Mr Crespo - at least I would if you were still here - then you, Mr Noguera, what you mean by this North-South conflict you keep referring to?
Are we really at war, Mrs Figueiredo?
Why did our Spanish friends in the Committee on Fisheries welcome the new Amigos de la Pesca grouping with such jubilation?
Does this group integrate or render asunder?
Why are the other fisheries nations not involved?
Are they not wanted?
Where does this leave the Community?
I was in the Spanish port of Vigo just yesterday.
A few people said, 'Keep up the good work, girl!', but there are widely differing views on the matter there.
Alarm bells are going off in all directions.
I hope that everyone speaking on fisheries here today and tomorrow is up for integration.
In the final analysis, we all want reform, because we have fished everything there is out of the sea.
And now we must bear the consequences - as a Community!
