Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it would certainly appear that Mugabe has won the elections.
I can still remember electoral victories claimed by presidents who were very soon overtaken, and were very soon presidents no more.
I do not wish to draw any direct parallels, but it seems to me that he should not be too quick to celebrate his victory over his opponents.
Especially as the elections were held under the worst possible conditions, with intimidation, police action against members and supporters of the opposition and so on.
What saddens me is not just the situation in Zimbabwe itself, but the fact that numerous African Heads of State and Government and President Mugabe are indirectly providing a shield, even as they acknowledge his election victory.
Perhaps this hides the fear of more neo-colonialism on the part of Europe or the United States of America and other countries.
That certain parties may be entertaining such thoughts is, of course, no concern of ours.
It may be the case, but it is not the policy of the European Union.
What concerns us is the people who are starving there, who are suffering repression there.
A few days ago, I was on a jury which awarded a prize to the Nobel prize-winner Amartya Sen. This man has stated time and again that democracy and development go hand in glove and cannot be separated.
Which is why I think that the European Union should do everything it can to create democracy and the conditions for economic development here too.
We, by which I mean everyone from the European Union due to attend the session of the ACP/EU joint parliamentary assembly in Cape Town, shall no doubt be addressing these concerns.
Most importantly, we must call on South Africa to do proper justice to its hugely important role in southern Africa.
Unfortunately, we shall also have to step up sanctions, despite the economic difficulties.
But, and I say it again, if his African neighbours were to work with the European Union in taking against this dictatorship, success would come quickly and we could really help the people in this sorely afflicted country.
