draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Mr President, the Commission's report and Mr Musotto's are laudable, the one for its analytical description of the situation and the other for its supplementary proposals, although the observations of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs were taken into account only to a somewhat modest extent.
Further to them, though, I would like to elaborate, from my Committee's point of view, another issue which has almost been pushed into obscurity.
Commissioner, we have learned essential lessons from the difficulties we have had in raising poorer regions or suffering former industrialised zones to the level within the European Union; they should spur us on to improve things and should serve as a benchmark for the process of enlargement.
It is above all the poorer industrial zones in the future Member States whose need for massive restructuring measures causes me great concern.
I refer above all to coal and steel regions; the steel industries in these countries are absolutely incapable of competing with our own, and the collieries are a potential problem.
I do not want to go at this juncture into what will happen if we are unable to give our new friends sufficient aid.
I will only observe that, as the ECSC's expiry is imminent, we no longer have a suitable instrument in this field.
I reiterate that now because the ECSC continued to be of excellent service to us in recent years, no cofinancing is needed and the system of financing could in any case have been adapted.
We also have to make solidarity payments to the applicant countries.
I reiterate that now because the new States will not have adequate access to financing.
I have touched on this issue now because the Commission played a considerable part in changing this instrument without envisaging the difficulties in the process of enlargement or even giving them some thought.
Do something about this problem, Commissioner!
The problem is not a small one.
We do not have enough instruments suited to the processes of adaptation while enlargement is going on.
