, draftsperson of the opinion of the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism.
Mr President, Commissioner, thank you also, Mr Glante, for your efforts at producing this report in this form, and thank you for what you have said.
Mr Radwan, in his capacity as your shadow rapporteur, will further enlarge on the PPE proposal that you feel unable to support.
Having its own satellite navigation system has been one of Europe's concerns for many years now, but it exists only as an aspiration.
No decision on it has as yet been reached.
It is in connection with Galileo, of all things, that everything is weighed in the balance a thousand times over, every euro is examined closely, whereas in other areas the European purse-strings are much looser.
What I reproach the Member States for is the way they delay and defer, hang back and hesitate, and that is what could stick in the minds of Europe's citizens.
That is also what Europe's image threatens to become if we are not careful.
I, however, want Europe to be modern, technologically on the ball, quite literally the worldwide Number One.
This is where Europe can play its trump cards - economic strength, a talent for innovation, technological capacity and vision.
I do not want to make apocalyptic predictions, but I am convinced that, without Galileo, Europe could completely lose its position in an important sector and will fall back so far that it will, at the end of the day, be quite impossible for it to catch up.
If we do not manage to get Galileo started and at last open the doors to new technologies, if we do not manage to make the necessary funds available, then we will become a laughing-stock across the world, and in outer space as well.
Why am I telling you this?
We need now, at last, a resounding 'yes' to Galileo and a competitive alternative to GPS!
The Council wanted industry involved in Galileo as early as possible.
The Commission submitted a proposal which Parliament put to the acid test, and which received - and still receives - severe criticism from different sides, and I do think there were omissions on the Commission's side as well.
Our Committees have identified a number of problem areas.
Industry involvement in the Joint Undertaking - whether direct or via the development company - must not, though, be made so hard to reach that Galileo's failure becomes a possible result.
Europe needs Galileo, or, as the Commission puts it in its information note, Galileo is indispensable to Europe.
That is why I hope Parliament will speak with a clear voice and that there will be a large majority tomorrow.
