Mr President, this is a great piece of work, and I would like to thank Mr Caudron most warmly, as well as Mr Busquin, who has left his mark on this programme with new ideas.
I wish him great success in implementing this programme.
It will not be easy to manage and implement such a large programme, with not only the fifteen Member States, but also other states taking part in it.
We wish you good luck on the way ahead, in any case.
I note with great satisfaction that two issues which I have put forward again and again have been included, the first of these being research into improved methods of clearing away anti-personnel mines.
I would ask the Commission to keep these efforts under one roof if at all possible.
The second is the issue of disarmament, a contribution towards the abolition of nuclear, bacteriological and chemical weapons, a technical contribution to their destruction.
Open today's newspapers and you read about how the two former superpowers are disposing of the heritage of the Cold War, that is, they want to disarm on a really massive scale.
If the European Union were to join them in this, that would be a noble endeavour.
We have achieved a compromise on the ethics issue.
The Commission has issued a statement which corresponds in essence to what Parliament resolved at first reading.
I would ask that we bring forward discourse on the finality of science, and also on ethics in Europe.
The actual problem is not with the Council, Parliament, or the Commission, but with different publicly-expressed opinions.
Playing a part in bringing forward the broadest possible public debate on the purpose, content, and finality of science and technology in Europe would be important and should become fundamental as the Sixth Framework Programme progresses.
In saying this, I would like to give you an assurance that Parliament is interested in this.
Being myself a co-founder of STOA, I am aware of the importance of the task of technological assessment, and hope that we will work well with the Commission.
