.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope you will forgive me if I remain seated.
I am not yet well enough to stand while I talk to you, but please do not think I am being rude.
Also, I do not wish to talk for longer than necessary, but I would just like to thank everyone who has helped in preparing the report, which Commissioner Patten has said the Commission will take into account in the negotiations at the Moscow Summit.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
The fact that the debate on this report is being held in the right place, that is to say during a joint debate on the Russian Federation, makes it clear once again that we still believe it is up to the Russian Government to ensure that reasonable conditions prevail in Kaliningrad.
A delegation from this House recently visited Kaliningrad, and anyone travelling through this region or walking through the city is bound to be horrified, unless they close their eyes.
We had an opportunity to discuss matters with the mayor of Kaliningrad, who complained bitterly that the last visit by representatives of the European Union had raised hopes about the construction of a new hospital.
In this context, help for patients with TB is particularly important.
Everything that has been mentioned by the previous speakers - human rights issues, public health and environmental policy - are issues that must be tackled and where help is needed.
One thing is sure, and we should not lose sight of this, because it also underscores what Commissioner Vitorino has said: there will be no real peace in Europe until we have managed to breathe life into the partnership and cooperation agreement.
I hope we will succeed, but I will not be too concerned as long as the points mentioned here by the various representatives of the presidency, the Commission and of this House itself are also discussed at the Moscow Summit.
Many thanks for giving me a few minutes' speaking time.
I am sure we will continue to strive to ensure, working jointly where necessary, Mrs Lalumière, that what has been agreed by Parliament so far is actually implemented and becomes a practical policy.
Thank you very much indeed!
I would particularly like to thank Erika Mann, who, when I asked her if she would present my contribution here agreed to do so without hesitation.
Thank you very much, Erika!
(Applause)
