Mr President, the regulation on sales promotions is a problematic and controversial dossier, as has been made clear by what Commissioner Bolkestein and Mr Beysen have had to say.
I would like to thank Mr Beysen for such a useful result having emerged from such lengthy considerations.
That was really difficult, as the discussion was dominated by consumer protection, completion of the internal market, the bureaucracy that is to be found in the Member States, and the concerns of smaller enterprises.
The European treaties established the principle of an open market economy with free competition.
It is functioning markets rather than bureaucracy that best ensure the public interest.
Enforcing these competition rules is a matter for the Member States on the one hand and for the European institutions on the other.
It is precisely the introduction of the euro that makes it so necessary to harmonise in this area.
All but a very few of the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs welcomed the basic line of the Commission's draft regulation and delivered itself of an opinion that is more concerned with the Internal Market than is the final draft from the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market.
It was particularly with regard to the country of origin principle that we were more frank.
Admittedly, we wanted to retain the national cartel rules and the rules against unfair competition, but also to go one step further.
It is right that the provisions on cartel law in the Treaty establishing the European Communities and the essential national provisions on bargain sales should be maintained, as they protect smaller businesses against big groups of companies.
Derogations for specific areas such as lotteries, members of the professions, and medicines are to be laid down, and they are justifiable.
The explicit adoption of customer loyalty schemes alongside the customary discounts is likewise right and necessary, but the Commission did not take it into account.
The deletion of the rule prohibiting sales below cost price, as demanded by the Economic Committee and taken up by the Legal Affairs Committee, is right and proper.
On this, I want to expressly contradict Commissioner Bolkestein's remarks.
The Commission proposed transparency obligations as a precondition for the planned prohibition of sales below cost price, and these bear no relation to current practice, are questionable from the point of view of competition law and would lead to agreements to fix the resale price.
That cannot be our objective, and so, Commissioner, I do not believe that you will find a majority in Parliament in favour of this scheme.
