Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in these two minutes I would like to concentrate on a related matter that will play an important part in the Barcelona Summit.
Mr Prodi, the President of the Commission, has mentioned that the biotechnology action plan proposed by the Commission will also be on the agenda.
I believe it is a good thing that this will be discussed in Barcelona, as biotechnology offers opportunities for growth and employment.
I think it right that the Commission should be advancing so courageously on this issue.
I will state openly that most applications of genetic technology and biotechnology throw up no fundamental ethical problems, and so biotechnology should be supported, and, in that we save resources by its astute use, biotechnology can also make a contribution towards sustainable development.
However, Mr President of the Commission, there are also well-founded concerns.
I get the impression that, in the Commission's action plan, these well-founded concerns tend to be presented as a problem of acceptance, so that all that is needed is enough talk and public information and there will then no longer be a problem.
Parliament, though, has always emphasised that there are also requisite boundaries, boundaries that are necessary in themselves and which we have to lay down politically in order to protect health and the environment, but also on ethical grounds.
For we are no longer the European Economic Community; we are the European Union, and so we need common values, with the consequences that derive from them.
I therefore consider it false of the Commission to deal with stem cell research in a very wholesale way in their document, which does not sufficiently distinguish the ethical problems.
Mr Aznar has done things very differently in recent days.
He has explicitly aired the ethical problems.
I would like to call on the Council and the Commission to give their attention to these problems.
I wish to ask my fellow Members to support Amendment No 27 to the Jackson resolution, in which we have precisely and even-handedly dealt with this balance between opportunity and risk and call on the Council to act appropriately.
