Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome both the Commission's initiatives on biofuels.
Plans to apply reduced rates of excise duty to biofuels or to exempt them from duties altogether, and to provide for the promotion of their use with a catalogue of clear objectives, will help to reduce the European Union's high degree of dependency on oil imports in an environmentally sound manner.
From here on in, though, I propose to confine myself to the proposal on the promotion of biofuels.
My heartfelt thanks go primarily to our rapporteur, Mrs Ayuso González, not only for submitting an excellent draft report, but also for her really good cooperation.
The promotion of biofuels fits into the EU's overall strategy of doubling the penetration of renewable energy sources by 2010, a strategy for which we have essential reasons.
In Kyoto, the EU made the commitment to reduce the output of greenhouse gases by 8%.
Traffic in particular is a major source of these.
It is likewise important to safeguard security of supply, and promoting the biomass as a source of energy will give rural development new and significant impetus.
Speaking as I do for the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I therefore welcome the responsible Committee's confirmation of the line taken by the Commission, that binding national targets should be set for further increasing the share of biofuels.
I have, however joined with the rapporteur in tabling a compromise amendment providing for indicative targets to be linked with the possibility of their being reviewed.
The rapporteur has gone into the background to this.
The one thing we now see as important is that we should meet the Council halfway by being willing to set indicative targets as well, but this means that we expect the Council, this very week, to accede to the demands made by the competent Committee in various areas.
It is important in this context that environmental and climatic conditions should come under particular scrutiny, that agricultural practices should be examined accordingly, and that it is not in the least acceptable for the Council to do as it is no doubt currently trying to do, and provide for any Member State to be able to opt out without substantial obstacles being put in the way of their doing so.
What are we to do with a directive that starts by setting targets and then makes them more lenient?
We are, then, prepared to come to a speedy agreement - indeed, the whole point is that we desire one - but such an agreement is not to be had at any price.
We hope to have reached agreement with the Council by Thursday.
