Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, creating an area of lifelong learning means taking active steps to guarantee equality of opportunity for all population groups.
The European Union cannot realistically achieve that alone, considering that 1% of the total budget is invested in culture and education.
Something would need to change there too.
What is more, there is often a narrow-minded anxiety in the Member States, in Germany's Länder for example, as regards cultural sovereignty.
They feel that their cultural sovereignty is being threatened when the EU makes pronouncements about education policy.
The results of the Pisa Study should have opened people's eyes.
Finland has achieved excellent results in practising lifelong learning, beating Germany with its achievement principle in the first phase of education, which often blocks people's path to further education.
So we can learn from each other.
We should draw up training plans for new developments relating to the electronic revolution, in industry as well.
We should extend education centres.
The rapporteur has proposed individual learning accounts.
The key issues here are exchanges of information and experience.
We need to have recognised, guaranteed systems for mutual recognition of final examinations.
That needs to be developed.
We need to gear what is on offer towards specific groups, for example mothers returning to work, for single parents who need childcare arrangements, for migrant workers, and for people in rural areas.
The Commission and the Member States should focus on this in a coordinated way, and particularly careful attention needs to be paid to the gender mainstreaming approach for lifelong learning.
We also need to take advantage of all possible instruments, such as loans from the EIB, in order to extend our educational systems so as to create a modern and efficient educational system.
We need to involve the informal sector and accelerate the political process of adult education, we need a new learning culture to secure sustainable development of the most precious resource at our disposal - people and their minds.
