Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive concerns the exhaust and noise emissions of petrol and diesel engines intended for recreational craft.
We also have these regulations for cars and that certainly does not mean that if our cars meet these standards they too are permitted to be driven anywhere.
At present, for example, there are rules limiting the number of boats on lakes to 100 or even 2 per lake.
It is possible to ban recreational craft from lakes entirely.
There are time restrictions, limiting the use of boats only to certain hours each day.
In the end, this directive does not confer any right to operate recreational craft on all lakes at all times and under all possible conditions; all it does is allow free trade in boats and their licensing and it permits them to be used in authorised areas.
All of us in the European Union value the principle of harmonisation, but only where minimum standards are set so that these technical products can also be used.
As you know, we in Parliament - and in particular in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy - attach the utmost importance to the principle of mutual recognition, and I believe that this directive makes boat licensing possible.
We see it as very positive that the general standards in the European Union are being raised substantially here.
This would also automatically have an impact on the market, because with higher standards proportionally more boats would be permitted on the waters of Member States.
If the standards are very low, the Member States will quite certainly take matters into their own hands by prohibiting the use of recreational craft on certain lakes altogether or by imposing time restrictions, for example by only allowing boats to be used in May or June.
There is therefore sufficient room for manoeuvre here.
It is precisely from this point of view that it is necessary to alert individual drivers, as part of their training for their motorboat licences, to the environmental and noise problem, as well as to the problem of exhaust emissions.
There are countless regulations here and these are of course very important in the individual countries.
We should also observe how this directive develops in the future, because it is in all our interests - everyone in this House will agree - to have environmental regulations that are as good, rigorous and sustainable as possible.
The sportsmen and -women who operate these boats are also keen to have the best possible boats, so the switch to a new generation of craft certainly has to be in all our interests.
