Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me just start with warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Paulsen.
I am committed to retaining the use of food waste as feed under appropriately strict conditions.
Let me make it clear that we are talking here about dishes officially permitted for human consumption.
Let those listening to me understand that, to take a couple of examples, this is about unsaleable bread that will no longer be fresh the following day, about left-over pieces of cake and that sort of thing.
The prevention of disease is adequately taken care of by the heating of food waste in the manner prescribed, which furthermore facilitates proper recycling of such remnants and thereby acts as a deterrent against even more 'rubbish tourism'.
Moreover, it provides pigs with a first-rate supply of essential amino and fatty acids, and makes it possible to reduce the importation of feedingstuffs.
It is a fact that liquid feed, that is, swill, derived from food waste, is known to have relatively few negative effects on rearing pigs.
There is a need to guarantee an appropriate standard of sterilisation in order to kill off pathogens.
The outcome of the conciliation procedure, with the seven amendments, was indeed accepted by the Council without further ado, and, on the extremely important Amendment No 25, which embodies a comprehensive compromise, I welcome the Council's draft providing for transitional measures under stringently monitored conditions for at most four years from 1 November 2002 onwards.
Any firm undertaking by the Commission to develop a directive on biowaste including kitchen and food waste, by the end of 2004, must primarily aim to stipulate safe use, recovery and reuse.
Contamination has to be monitored, and we welcome this approach.
It is the firms that have invested a great deal of money in these measures in order to meet the very highest standards, and are officially monitored, that are the best guarantee of food waste for feed being harmlessly removed and processed under controlled conditions.
As has already been pointed out by those who spoke before me, we could give a whole catalogue of examples to demonstrate that no adequate guarantee can be provided by a general ban on feeding this sort of stuff to animals.
What becomes of it then?
The future should find us still not destroying this valuable feed.
Let me say in conclusion that, on this issue, I am myself a strong advocate of a regulation rather than a directive, because I can already see how these things will be transposed differently in different countries, because I have an inkling that competition will be distorted, and because, if something is wrong, then it is wrong everywhere, be it in Germany, in Austria, or in any other Member State in this internal market.
