Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, from the point of view of foreign policy, the Spanish Presidency comes at a time when there is war between two atomic powers to be prevented, peace to be established in the Middle East, and the Barcelona process to be brought to a successful conclusion, because, if we are not successful in these areas, they may have a merciless effect on our immediate interests.
I believe, Mr President, that we can make progress on the focal points that you have mapped out.
Internationally, and nationally too, all this is tied in with the fight against terrorism, and I would like to say, in response to a speech by one of the previous speakers, that there can be no political justification for terror, which must be rejected both within the European Union and outside it.
Mr President-in-Office, I have observed over the last few months how you, astutely preparing for your presidency, have not, on foreign policy issues, fallen victim to the peril of bilateralism, which has been seen to some degree in Berlin, London and Paris.
I believe this results from the recognition that we can achieve the objectives of combating international and national terrorism and securing peace only by a joint effort and not on the basis of everyone for himself, and that it is for this reason that we must bring about a common foreign and security policy.
I am thankful that you evidently are able to go down this road.
There are yet two more reasons why your presidency comes at a decisive moment.
You will, when the Convention begins, be able to emphasise certain features of what the internal configuration of the European Union will be like in the future.
We therefore ask you for the support that will give the Convention the working facilities it needs in order to be able to meet these requirements.
Your presidency will, though, also see the preparatory decisions on enlargement of the European Union taken, that is to say, on the outward configuration of the European Union in the future.
We hope for very close cooperation with you on these issues over the next six months.
