Mr President, I wish to start by thanking the rapporteur for the work he has done, which has enabled us to make out a good basis for the years to come.
I would also like - and I think this might be permitted me - to say a word in praise of our own group, whose discussions, which were highly intensive and also sometimes rigorously conducted, produced uniform outcomes, something I consider to be very important in this area.
I want to deal with those essentials that are of significance to us.
The first point I wish to make, Commissioner, is that we join with you in rejecting the renationalisation of regional policy.
That is for us of primary importance.
Efforts are being made in certain Member States to reclaim this policy for the national level.
We here are quite united in repudiating this.
Cohesion policy makes clear European solidarity, which we do not want to lose, but rather to emphasise in the future.
On this we, Parliament and Commission, stand shoulder to shoulder.
My second point is that we seek greater coherence - between regional policy on the one hand and, in particular, the common agricultural policy on the other.
We could perhaps engage in a dialogue, even with Commissioner Fischler, on how we might manage this, without which our goals for rural areas, and the agricultural policy's goals for rural areas, will not always be found in the same direction, and this is something we must work on.
It is also beyond dispute that going below the 0.45% level imperils the cohesion objectives, so we just have to become more efficient, as has also been made abundantly clear by Mr Pohjamo's report, which we were discussing earlier.
Now to my final point.
We need to achieve a balance between the candidate countries and the regions we have supported to date.
I think it is not at issue that we must make enormous efforts for the candidate countries, that there must also be a cohesion instrument to help them, and this was also mentioned in the interim report you presented last week.
We must also, though, give thought to the need to continue to bring the regions we used to support up to the EU average.
If we manage this balancing act, I believe we will gain Europe greater acceptance.
