Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by means of the White Paper 'A new impetus for European Youth', the Commission has presented us with a comprehensive outline of the European Union's youth policy for the future.
Although a step in the right direction, it is a concept capable of further development.
During consultations with the Commission, European youth associations clearly expressed the view that this White Paper should give a higher profile to gender-specific issues.
I incorporated this concern in my opinion for the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities and put it forward emphatically.
Equal opportunities and the gender issue do not only affect us adults - quite the opposite, in fact.
It is precisely in schools and in youth work that choices are made about the self-evidently equal rights of girls and boys, of women and men.
European youth policy, too, must attach great value to this.
I welcome the report's proposals for greater participation by young people at every political level, for better provision of information of specific relevance to them, for the promotion of voluntary service by young people and for the highlighting of their interests in the Convention and in discussions on the constitution.
However constructive the proposals may be, though, we must not lose sight of the principle of subsidiarity.
Youth policy is primarily a task for the nations, regions and municipalities, but it is Europe that can create the framework for it.
I take a very critical view of the open coordination that is proposed in connection with this, which, in the form proposed, comes across as incapable of definition and diminishing the role of Parliament.
The family, too, is a focal point in life as it is really lived by Europe's young people, something of which the White Paper and the report take insufficient account.
The family, too, is a youth policy, and must be protected and reinforced.
I see the White Paper, taken as a whole, as having a good approach and as giving Europe's future youth policy some impetus, but we must take dialogue with the younger generation further and invest a great deal of commitment in pushing for what results from it to be implemented.
Only then will this initial impetus become the forward-moving process that Europe's young people have every right to expect.
