Mr President, the Napolitano Report does indeed take us one important step towards greater clarity in this debate on the role of the parliaments in the EU, and thus also a step towards greater democracy in it.
Our objective is, in my judgement, the creation of a parliamentary democracy in the European Union.
Only then will these issues of legitimisation, transparency and monitoring be able to be satisfactorily resolved.
'Parliamentarising' the EU means reinforcing all elected assemblies in their relations with their executives at both national and European level.
Intellectual and political clarity is needed for the debate on their respective roles.
Some in this House have got all this a bit mixed up together.
We need to separate the levels at which the national parliaments and the European Parliament will have their roles to play.
The parliaments have a joint role in the introduction of a constitution, which is a primary role of parliaments rather than of governments.
Because of this too, we are glad that we have the Convention, and can rejoice that over two-thirds of the Convention's members will be coming from the parliaments.
For secondary legislation and for the enactment of laws, on the other hand, we have the institutions - the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
I also say that we do not need a third chamber, something that would bring no added value and would only make the decision-making arrangements as a whole more complicated.
That popular trust is at all likely to be increased by such ideas is something I simply doubt.
What is important is the strengthening of the national parliaments in their dealings with their national governments.
Much can be done in this area and there is much still to do, so I believe we should come to an agreement and work together.
I thank Mr Napolitano for bringing clarity with his report and also for achieving, in the hearings we have had here, greater understanding between the parliaments.
Congratulations on this report, which I hope will be adopted by a large majority!
