Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the identification of food ingredients issue is one that recurs in Parliament on a regular basis.
When a major amendment to the labelling directive was decided on in 1995, there were similar discussions on the same issues as are on the agenda today.
In my view, though, today's discussions are necessary simply because there has been an increase in people's allergic reactions to certain component foods, some of which have been a threat to life itself.
This alone makes amendment of the directive and other measures necessary.
In my estimation, the production processes have remained unchanged since 1995.
What has changed is Parliament's attitude, as, at that time, we were already debating the rights and wrongs of the 25% rule.
That is no longer an issue today, so we are - I think - going back to 5%, which ensures that consumers can be certain of spotting allergenic substances that are a danger to them, and that is the whole point of this amendment.
That is why we should carry on along this road.
Today, though, we are back to walking the tightrope between clarity and the need for information, by which I mean firstly the clarity of the label and secondly that of the directive.
The consolidated version 2013/EC was a superfluous piece of legislation, and, in my view, so complex that anyone starting to apply this directive needs the help of someone learned in the law in order to accomplish it properly.
Please do not misunderstand me: I know of no amendment that we should be making other than this one.
I would like, however, to sharpen our awareness so that we can consider, in view of the next amendment to the labelling directive being imminent, whether there are not essential things that we could leave off the label because the public now know a good deal more than once they did.
When the public enter a hostelry, restaurant or bar, where mixed drinks and many varieties of food are prepared, we work on the assumption that they know what is in them and can also find out by asking.
That is an approach that we might perhaps take to what lies ahead when the next amendment comes round; I believe it is nearly upon us.
I am thinking of such things as alcoholic drinks.
