Madam President, it was decided in Nice that accession negotiations must be completed by the end of the year so that, if required, the necessary codetermination rights can be exercised in the national parliaments in the course of 2003.
In the complex documentation accompanying accession negotiations, the chapters on agriculture, finance and regional policy in particular have attracted a lot of public interest.
People - by which I mean explicitly the citizens of the EU - are paying more attention to these things than ever before.
At this point I would like to ask the Commission to give the Info-Points Europe, where they exist, more money so they can perform their current tasks.
The present proposal to phase in direct aids to farmers by 2013 cannot be the last word.
This model is not convincing because it lacks sufficient justification.
The European reference yield, only 2.96 in Poland's case for example, used as the basis for payment of direct aid is more than just an ugly detail.
That is not the way to encourage viability and sustainability of agriculture in the candidate countries.
My group believes that European agricultural policy cannot operate two policies in the long term.
My group also wants to see the candidate countries' integration into the common agricultural policy organised in tune with those countries' specific macroeconomic trends with special attention paid to social needs.
EU enlargement can be achieved only by the EU, the Member States and their regions working together.
Development of the border regions is particularly important here.
All involved must intensify their efforts, but they need the close attention of the European Union and the nation states.
The current programme of economic development for the border regions, amounting to EUR 245 million, is not enough.
Its availability is tied to other flows into and out of the regions, placing an even greater burden on already weak local authorities.
But the EU budget is not under such pressure.
If the Council Presidency under Spanish Chairmanship is unable to agree a final figure for direct agricultural aids - because of impending elections as, alas, in Germany - then the last few months will be spent trying to catch up, and in my opinion there will only be losers.
