Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks must go first to Mrs Ayuso González, who has invested the greatest effort in this report, even if we are left to vote on just one amendment.
Members who sit on the Committee for Agriculture and Rural Development, with Mrs Ayuso, have disregarded party boundaries in trying to point the Commission proposal in a more balanced direction.
By balanced we mean that, as well as agricultural alcohol, which makes up only a part of the alcohol market as a whole, synthetic alcohol must also eventually be the subject of a Common Market Organisation, both types of alcohol being in direct competition with each other.
Our demand that this be done was rejected.
Secondly, there must be exceptions to the existing regulations in Member States which give state support to the production of agricultural alcohol in order to take account of the need to protect the landscape and environment, safeguard the diversity of species and maintain the structures of smallholdings.
I am speaking here with specific reference to the German agricultural alcohol monopoly, which has to date effectively performed the functions I have just mentioned.
Minimal state aid, which in the European context is in no way relevant to the Internal Market, is used, particularly in southern Germany, to maintain cultural landscapes with fruit meadows that are of ecological value, and which are cultivated and looked after almost exclusively by smallholders.
The result of this policy, which has to date been right and proper, can be seen by you yourselves, ladies and gentlemen, on the steepest slopes of the Black Forest, which are now in bloom.
This small remuneration for caring for the landscape is almost an idea from the second pillar, which is widely believed to be in need of reinforcement.
This concern, though, has not been taken into account either.
Parliament is therefore, in my view, doing the right thing in rejecting the Commission proposal before us, which, moreover, utterly disregarded the Council's original mandate for a simple framework regulation.
We have kicked the ball back.
I am putting my hopes in the unofficial meeting of agriculture ministers at the end of April, and quite specifically in Mrs Künast.
The desirable outcome would be for the Council to take up what Parliament has come up with, which I presume will be decided on tomorrow.
