Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, my colleague's closing comments make an excellent introduction to my intervention.
It is true, we need more strategic thinking and vision.
This is a very, very difficult situation to deal with.
Only if we try and put transatlantic relations on a new footing and make the quantum leap to strategic thinking will there be any permanent rapprochement between us in the long term.
I have focussed, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Relations, Research and Energy, on investigating the economic implications.
I came to the following conclusion, which my fellow Members supported and which I should like to thank James Elles for including in his report.
Basically, we started from the premise that the transatlantic market already exists; you can see that for yourselves in several sectors.
However, this has consequences because politicians and the public barely even notice this.
We basically start from the premise that we are competitors.
We are, however, also well aware of the fact that there is a closeness between us and that we are partners.
But this very often finds relatively little expression in political action.
So we need to take more note of economic realities and translate them into political thinking.
That should also give us food for thought for strategic planning.
The consequences are considerable.
We have found evidence of increasingly frequent frustration between us and of alienation setting in.
We have found evidence of segregation and of harping back to national policies - mainly on the American side but, to be fair, we are not completely innocent of this - and an upswing in so-called American and European values.
This leads to more and more trade disputes, which feed on these problems.
The question is: what can we do?
As James Elles rightly says, we need to update the new transatlantic agenda and transatlantic economic partnership.
How can we do that?
I think we need a radical paradigm shift.
We need to move away from mutual observation.
We can achieve this paradigm shift in three ways: first, through a sectoral analysis of economic interdependence, secondly, by strengthening bilateral methods upstream of the WTO dispute settlement procedure and early warning system and, thirdly, through greater rapprochement.
The Commission already set this out at the summit in the form of a positive agenda which the Council confirmed.
And we shall welcome it on Parliament's part.
I do not intend to go into any further detail right now.
The details are there in the report and I trust that the Commission and the Council will support it.
