Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for several years now there have been clear indications that the Republic of Korea has used subsidies in contravention of WTO rules to distort international competition in the shipbuilding sector to a considerable extent and with lasting effects.
In June 2001 the Commission declared that its negotiations with South Korea had failed and recommended to the Council and Parliament to launch a WTO procedure to be accompanied by time-limited protection measures in favour of Europe's shipbuilding sector, which is in great danger.
Parliament voted in favour of this procedure and also recommended including gas tankers in these protection measures.
A study by the Commission is now available on the competitive position for various types of shipbuilding and in particular gas tankers.
This study has now been transmitted to the Council.
I have several questions for the Commissioner regarding this brief summary of the position.
Firstly, when will the study be made available to Parliament and to the public?
Secondly, does the study confirm the need to launch a WTO procedure against South Korea?
Thirdly, are there differences of opinion about the study within the Commission?
Fourthly, when will the Commission launch the WTO procedure, and will it continue to provide for the introduction of protection measures for sectors which have suffered damage?
My fifth question is how many jobs have been put at risk in Europe because of this distortion in competition.
Sixth, how many jobs have already been lost because no WTO measures have been introduced over the last two years and no accompanying protection measures have been taken?
My seventh question is how many orders the European shipbuilding industry has lost over the last two years.
My final question, Commissioner, is how you regard the situation and the discussions held by the Council on this subject.
Mrs Riis-Jørgensen is here with us and the situation in the Council seems to be similar to that in Parliament.
There are great controversies raging in the Member States as to whether the Commission has come up with an appropriate procedure, as on the one hand it is proposing to launch a WTO procedure and on the other it is intending to offset this with protection measures.
The overwhelming majority of this House considered, when we voted on the Riis-Jørgensen report, that this was the right approach.
I assume that there will continue to be an overwhelming majority for this in future, but I still wish to ask the Commissioner to give us some information on what measures he proposes, and to explain this to the Council as part of the new discussions now that the study has been transmitted to the Council.
