Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, unlike Mrs Schroedter, I regard the final result of the Committee's vote on Mr Musotto's report as a success.
The report demonstrates, firstly, a balanced assessment of the disparities within the European Union, which continue to be marked, secondly, the challenge thrown down by enlargement, and thirdly, the need for improvements in the area of the EU's structural and cohesion policies.
I would very much like to highlight four fundamental points.
The first is that there must be no renationalisation of Structural Fund policy.
I can save myself the effort of justifying this, as Mr Duin has already done that for me.
Secondly, a polycentric model of space would be a sensible approach to counteracting the disparity between the centre and the periphery.
Thirdly, there is a need for improved coordination among the Structural Funds as well as of structural policy with the other Community policy areas, especially the common agricultural policy and fiscal and economic policy.
Fourthly, consistent application of the bottom-up and partnership principles at every stage - planning, implementation, monitoring and evaluation would not only promote closeness to the citizens, but also the subsidiarity principle.
What is imperative, quite apart from the need to continue with aid for the underdeveloped regions of the present Member States, is that the soon-to-be Member States of the European Union must enjoy our full solidarity with them, which means the involvement of these countries, with equal rights, in EU structural policy, without allowing the present Member States to fall by the wayside.
Serious shortfalls in development make it, in my view, already perfectly clear that even 0.45% of Europe's GDP will not be sufficient to do this.
Provision of support and transnational cooperation in the border regions will be of great significance as enlargement takes its course.
Justice has not, in my judgement, been adequately done to this in the report.
The course for the Structural Funds, with their criteria and indicators for support, must be set in such a way that economic and social cohesion is also reflected in falling unemployment figures.
My own country, the Federal Republic of Germany, is setting a bad example in this respect, for unemployment in the 'Objective 1' regions is rising dramatically.
We have a rate of over 20%, but this figure is, fortunately, not as high in the more developed regions.
