Mr President, honourable Members, in reply to the honourable Member's question, may I assure you that I not only know what 'pescaíto frito' is, I have also eaten this dish in Spain on several occasions, and I also know that 'pescaíto frito' is often prepared using fish which are below the minimum size prescribed in Community law.
The fish used for this dish are caught both in third countries and by the European fleet.
However, the same minimum sizes apply both to fish landed from the Community and to imported fish and it the responsibility of the Member State's authorities to monitor this in both cases.
I should like to point out here that we concluded, following numerous inspections in Spain, that Spanish monitoring leaves a great deal to be desired because large quantities of undersized fish are reaching the markets.
We therefore drew the logical conclusions and instituted infringement proceedings against Spain.
The Commission is also aware that this fish used to be fished by the Spanish fleet under the Morocco agreement.
As you know, we have been unable to renew this agreement, but the Community has recognised its responsibility and has agreed on measures for the benefit of the ships and crews affected.
Finally, may I point out that we also make a clear commitment to responsible, sustainable fisheries in non-Community waters in our proposed reform of the common fisheries policy.
We want to use our fisheries agreements to help third countries manage stocks in a sustainable manner.
And that of course precludes catching and selling juvenile fish.
In reply to your final question, I must reply quite categorically that our reform proposals do not seek in any way whatsoever to wipe out part of the Community fleet.
There is nothing in our proposals which gives cause to believe that industrial fleets are being given preference over small in-shore fisheries.
We recommend reducing fishing efforts, by which I mean the number of days at sea, wherever necessary, i.e. where stocks are endangered.
Each Member State can then decide how these days at sea are to be divided between ships, and hence between larger and smaller ships, on the basis of social and economic considerations.
