Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Junker has already mentioned Mr Mugabe's cynical speech at the Johannesburg Summit.
I tend to get the impression that speeches of this kind are, unfortunately, infectious.
I hope that the crass speech by Namibia's President Nujoma in Johannesburg on the same day will not have any political consequences in Namibia itself.
Meanwhile, the politicisation of food aid in Zimbabwe is continuing, amongst other things.
Maize is being specifically distributed to the party faithful, church food stores are being stormed by the so-called war veterans, and the church has been banned from distributing aid on the grounds that it is creating parallel structures.
What should we be doing?
We should do what we have decided to do.
To be precise, I expect that Zimbabwe's Foreign Minister will not be invited to the EU-SADEC meeting of Foreign Ministers in Copenhagen in November, and we should make it clear to our partners in southern Africa that European money is not intended to finance an African renaissance or a new NEPAD programme of African development for President Mugabe and his political allies.
We should financially participate in the reconstruction of Zimbabwe and land reform there once Mr Mugabe has gone and within a proper constitutional framework - but not now.
If Zimbabwe's neighbours exert pressure in their own interest, because they themselves are suffering from the impact of Mr Mugabe's policies - for example the flow of refugees into neighbouring countries - then we should support them in accommodating refugees, but certainly not now.
We should make our own policy perfectly clear and bring appropriate pressure to bear on our own Council of Ministers, because I really have the impression - as a number of Members have already said - that this is not really being given priority, and that no very clear statement was made about Mr Mugabe in Johannesburg.
That is why I hope that we will at least take a hard line in relation to the meeting in November in Copenhagen.
Our partners in southern Africa will then have to decide for themselves if they want to show solidarity with Mr Mugabe or with the people of Zimbabwe, and join us in the dialogue to put an end to this situation.
