Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to sincerely thank all the rapporteurs who have been involved so closely with the subject of eastern enlargement not only this year but over the last few years.
I think as Parliament we have set something revolutionary in motion here.
Political support and the support of the people in the enlargement process is the decisive point and that can of course only be given by democratically legitimised forces such as Members of Parliament as representatives of the people of Europe.
In that respect we are performing an important task here.
I want in particular to thank Mr Böge, the rapporteur, also as a member of the Committee on Budgets, because I think the financing of enlargement is naturally the most serious question being put to us from all sides and one which is naturally of particular concern also to the people of the European Union - just as it is in the candidate countries.
I think the approach that Mr Böge has found, that we in the Committee on Budgets have found, deserves to be taken seriously.
Of course whatever is available through Agenda 2000 must be included in this enlargement process, but we cannot at the same time commit ourselves for the period after that in such a manner that we no longer have any freedom to take decisions after 2007.
I think that is a very wise approach.
I am also very grateful to Mrs Sommer, because I think that in her report on the border regions she has managed to highlight the problems of the people directly affected by enlargement and who are already experiencing in their daily lives what it means to live in a region where there is a marked economic disparity and to ensure that we in Parliament send out a strong signal that appropriate support must be given, because we in Parliament can make those funds available in the budget procedure for 2002.
It was a hard struggle, but at the end of the day we succeeded.
I assume that in the 2003 procedure we shall be able to find a euro or two to make additional resources available for these areas.
