Mr President, may I say to the President-in-Office that he should not be deceived by the number of empty seats in the House.
We have a great deal of interest in Latin America.
Perhaps we are behaving like a semi-conductor.
Sometimes, the more empty positions, the higher the standard.
Maybe that also applies to Parliament.
I should like to join with Mr Fernández Martín in asking the Commission to speed up the implementation of projects.
When we parliamentarians visit Latin America, the response to our proposals is always, yes, you make excellent proposals, you decide to give us money, but the money never comes.
The credibility of the European Union does not depend on a to-do list, but on whether or not we keep our promises.
So my request - and I assume I speak here for the whole House - is that the projects be implemented.
That the money we budget be disbursed.
Thirdly, and this comment is addressed to the Latin Americans with us now, the more Latin America joins forces, the more Mercosur and the Andes countries and the whole of Latin America joins forces, the more clout they will have in negotiations with the European Union and other countries.
Take a leaf - and this really is meant as well-intentioned advice - out of the European Union's book in this case.
The problem for us in negotiations with Mercosur and other regions is that we have to listen to several, rather than one voice.
And, whether we like it or not, it slows down the negotiating process.
I personally am not involved in negotiations, but several people have told me as much.
It would be better if you were to speak with one voice.
I should also like to say how delighted I was with the Mercosur-Europe Business Forum which was held in parallel in Madrid.
This is the third time this forum of companies, associations and politicians from Mercosur and Europe has been staged.
We need economic and technical dialogue between Europe and Latin America similar to our dialogue with the United States.
Perhaps the Commission could make a contribution here too.
My last comment is that there are numerous problems, but there are also opportunities waiting to be exploited.
In Parliament, we are currently processing several directives which will offer trading opportunities: a directive on biofuels - where we can offer them new markets - and a directive on CO2 emissions trading in the wake of the Kyoto agreement.
This too offers new opportunities for collaboration, to Latin America's advantage.
All this deserves to be discussed.
