the opinion of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is of course interested in international development and especially the opportunity to play a part in shaping policy within the WTO.
We have two problems here.
On the one hand, our Committee's resources do not permit us to monitor and influence the debate to the extent that would be genuinely useful.
On the other, we have many parliamentarians from other countries - primarily from developing countries - who cannot meet the costs, even for travel and accommodation, in order to attend these debates and play a role in this decision-making process.
Firstly, we want Europe to commit itself to playing a leading role in global affairs.
The WTO and the capacity to make decisions on matters of WTO policy are extremely important, especially for our small and medium enterprises.
Secondly, we want to press ahead with standardisation, because what we want to push for first and foremost, in terms of legislation, is mutual recognition, rather than harmonisation within the European internal market.
In this context, standardisation is essential and fundamental.
Thirdly, in the energy field, we want to ensure that the intelligent energy programmes, but also the ALTENER, SAVE and SYNERGIE programmes, are used intensively and that the Commission sets priorities here, especially for our energy self-sufficiency, where the aim, after all, is to achieve an increase from 50% to 70%.
In this context, more intensive measures need to be adopted as a matter of urgency to safeguard and secure our energy supply.
Let me make one further point, which originates from Parliament alone: we want Basle II to have its own action programme.
We are concerned that the equity capital requirements for our SMEs will not be achievable by 2006, and that this will precipitate a massive number of foreclosures and bankruptcies.
So let's do our homework here first.
