Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mr Lannoye on his comprehensive report, whose contents are excellent.
I would like to take this opportunity to say that as parliamentarians, we must consider whether in future, when we adopt a position on a key conference such as Johannesburg, we could do so with more brevity, conciseness and structure, especially as this then makes it easier to convey to the public what the European Parliament does and does not stand for.
The previous speaker referred to the Commission and everything that it has to do.
I would like to point out, on the basis of my own almost three years of experience, that even in this House, the majorities are not always in favour of sustainable development and sustainable solutions.
The three elements of sustainable development have been cited frequently: they are economic, social and ecological development.
Here, it is important that in future, GDP growth does not remain the only key indicator of social progress.
GDP growth has nothing to do with sustainability.
We therefore urge the Commission to bring pressure to bear in Johannesburg so that new social and ecological indicators are adopted to calculate a country's well-being in future.
We cannot talk about a global partnership for sustainable development without highlighting the link between poverty and environmental destruction.
Poverty breeds population growth.
It is estimated that by 2015, the global population will have reached 7.5 billion.
This means more pressure on natural resources and more pressure on the environment.
In this context, I would like to stress the importance of greater efforts to ensure women's legal equality and their right to protection of their reproductive health, and to strive for progress in these areas.
I should also like to touch specifically on the proposed amendments.
My group will not vote for the Greens' Amendment No 5 to delete paragraph 26.
However, I should also stress that we are working from the French original.
We would delete the German version as it stands as well.
I should also mention that my group does not support Amendment No 12 which seeks to introduce a Sachs tax, i.e. tax-deductible contributions for charitable purposes.
Personally, I have problems using the adjective "charitable" at all.
When we refer to sustainable development as the challenge of the century, this has to do with the fact that we need to change our own production conditions; it has nothing to do with charity.
I also see a further problem, namely that we would be deducting tax revenue for developed countries which need this income for their own sustainable development in future.
