Madam President, Commissioner, I would first like to comment on Mrs Van Brempt's proposal as rapporteur to replace the phrase 'lifelong learning'.
It really does sound like a prison sentence and I would like to suggest an alternative straight away: 'learning for life'.
It implies the same thing, but it does not sound negative, or like a prison sentence.
Perhaps we could use that in future.
The report we have before us highlights many possibilities and this debate has also demonstrated how much we can and should do.
I would also like to touch again on a few points that are not clear to me, and, in particular, the question of recognising formal qualifications.
The Commission talks in one place about a voluntary minimum quality standard and in another place about a modular system that needs to be worked out by 2003 and which would allow people to combine different educational and vocational training establishments.
The term 'voluntary' gives rise to a degree of uncertainty here: we need to clearly express what we want and what would result in mutual recognition.
We have already talked a great deal here about equality of opportunities, and about lifelong learning or learning for life.
The fact that according to a Eurostat survey 16% of university graduates take advantage of further vocational training compared with only 2% of people with the lowest educational qualifications tells us that access to education should not create inequalities but reduce them.
We in this House need to help to overcome these barriers.
Social exclusion and marginalisation need to be reduced by means of a new European project such as lifelong learning.
The Lisbon Council set the target of making the EU the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area in the world.
However, if we are to achieve this objective, everyone needs to be involved right from the start.
Access to education and training should no longer be dependent on people's level of education, gender and nationality and on infrastructural issues.
