Mr President, considering this first discharge procedure for the new Commission somewhat dispassionately, we observe two explosive things: firstly, a gigantic Budget surplus, a massive underutilisation that actually shakes budgetary truth to its very foundations.
One cannot but wonder for a moment why we spend months here on the Budget process if 14% of a Budget is not utilised.
I know, as we all do, that the underutilisation in 2001 was even greater than it was in 2000.
If, against that, we set the fact that the same year, 2000, also saw a doubling of the irregularities and frauds that were recorded in this Budget, then, in Budget matters, the first year of Mr Prodi's Commission seems not to have been much of a success.
But, Mr McCartin, this does not mean assigning the debt to the Member States!
Commissioner Schreyer has already referred to the desire to make use of the time for enlargement, in order to prepare these countries for it.
So I ask the same Commission what is happening about the implementation of pre-accession aid in the context of agricultural policy, which was demonstrably not implemented at all in 2000 and 2001.
The same Commission proposes to the European Union that enlargement should take place in 2004.
How, then, is that to be done?
Either the countries desirous of joining are - to put it in plain language - too stupid to collect money they have been given, or the Commission is not in a position to devise pre-accession programmes that are, at the end of the day, capable of being implemented!
Today already, Commissioner, we can take it for granted, for example, that a programme such as IACS, that is, all the agricultural monitoring systems about which we have had so much to say, cannot be implemented for years on end if these countries are onboard, one of many reasons being that the Commission has overslept and missed the pre-accession programmes.
I think it highly important, Commissioner, that we should, in the years to come, not spend all our time speculating about who should hand over which documents to whom - if any at all - and estimates differ as to how great this agreement between Parliament and the Commission is.
What this is about is that you at last grasp that you are accountable to the European public for all of what you have utilised - or, in this instance, not utilised - right down to the last cent.
Then, it is to be hoped, we will enter the new culture of political management in Brussels that Mr Prodi has, admittedly, promised us, but which has not, to date, been discernible.
