Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this own-initiative report is concerned with analysing problems in the use actually made of the Structural Funds and with submitting proposals as to how their management and effectiveness could be improved, not least with a view to the next pending revision of post-2006 regional policy.
The rapporteur has succeeded both in highlighting the improvements achieved in the wake of the 2000 reform of the Structural Funds and also in drawing our attention to difficulties in their application, especially the problems in connection with the delayed implementation of the programme.
It is these to which I wish to give particular attention.
Although it was an essential objective of the pre-2000 reform of the Structural Funds to avoid repetition of mistakes from the beginning of the 1994 planning period, but rather to get fully involved in the first year, this has only partly succeeded.
Negotiations on the programme still took up too much time.
The guidelines set out by the Commission were not always understood in the regions.
Negotiations were often delayed through the pace at which the Commission worked and through slow response times, which were sometimes contingent on new requirements imposed by the Commission.
It is reported from the regions that these in turn were seen there as merely petty.
On the other hand, the Member States were not always prompt in sending in the programme documents and the additional items of information that had been requested.
All these things, Mr President, are facts - facts of which I had warned when I was the rapporteur presenting an own-initiative report in the same terms, appealing urgently for the start of a new planning period not to again be delayed as it had been in 1994.
Let us then now draw the right and necessary conclusions for 2006, or else reports of that sort will in fact be nothing more than wastepaper.
There should be no gaps occurring between programming periods.
That is why I support the rapporteur's proposal that we should also examine whether in future there should not also be separation and limitation of the periods for which project-oriented programmes and Community initiatives run.
