Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your statements today; for us they are a really important step forward in the joint voluntary procedure, as Ruth Hieronymi has pointed out.
We have not raised the question of comprehensive interoperability in the telecommunications directive, but we know that it is of huge importance to Europe, which sets standards in media policy.
The Commission and the regulators, like the European Parliament, were not perhaps decisive enough in the early days.
But we are now, because time is running out.
The summer of 2004 will be here before we know it.
Let us call it guidance that we need in this voluntary procedure; what our institutions are waiting for and what we are jointly calling for is a clear media policy message.
We have mentioned a single standard.
We have consistently avoided the word simple.
We do not want to jump the gun.
But this is not jumping the gun, it is being logical.
As my honourable friend, Mrs Hieronymi said, we could have set one standard that speaks this common language, a single language, in the MHP.
We need more clear political signals here.
We opted for a single system for mobile telephones and we should do the same here and now.
Before the industry invests any more and we have various other APIs which cannot talk to each other as we would like, because the more economic facts, figures and data there are on the table, the harder it will be for politicians to intervene directly here.
This common voluntary procedure needs clear signals from us.
Again I read a quotation in a technical journal recently in which you pointed out that the Commission can lay down binding European standards here if appropriate freedom of choice for our citizens and interoperability are not achieved by 2004.
I do not think it will come to that.
We should be able to find a joint solution before then.
We need to meet each other half way.
A large majority of market players are in favour of MHP and we should say so clearly.
I think that is the answer expected of us.
