Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Stenzel, this is a very fine and comprehensive report.
The fact that we, as my group has demanded, are actually debating it this evening is almost enough to give one a bad conscience.
I wish to apologise to all those for whom that is their reason for being here.
I do think, though, that it is right to review what we have achieved in the Balkans, especially in the area where the Agency is active, and consider what we have not yet achieved.
As previous speakers have done, we must hang on to the fundamental truth that the Agency has performed well and that we can take much satisfaction in that.
At the same time, though, it must be said that there are a number of aspects in which the European Union's policy has to be continued with and perhaps even stepped up.
If we are to use the Agency to disburse funds - Mrs Stenzel thinks the amount should decrease, and she is right - we have to be aware that the economic situation continues to be very, very bleak.
Money will not compensate for all of that; we must rather concentrate on building up structures that make it possible for there to be perceptible - but, admittedly slow - economic development and growth.
Such structures are, unfortunately, not yet in place.
As far as the political situation is concerned, we still also have great deficiencies to deal with; one might almost say we have to deal with the lack of a maturation process, both in relations between Serbia and Montenegro and in the conditions within them.
There is still, alas, insufficient willingness in Kosovo to accept that this European Union of ours has committed itself to a multi-ethnic Kosovo inhabited mainly by the Albanian population, but in which the Serbs must also be able to live in freedom and peace and go about their normal work and economic activity.
That has not even started to happen in Kosovo!
In Macedonia, to which some of us are travelling in a few days to observe the elections, there are still recurrent incidents, and some killings.
There, too, the process of political maturation has not yet progressed as far as it needs to.
I am glad that Commissioner Vitorino is present to hear the third point I would like to make, which is that the central Balkan region continues to be a country of transit for a lot of objectionable cross-border activities.
We are of course aware that certain illegal organisations do not object to ethnic cooperation and have no problem with the overcoming of borders.
Now, I do not want to run this region down, as activities such as trafficking in drugs and human beings often have EU countries as their destinations, whilst their sources are often elsewhere.
I do believe, though, that it is with our own population in mind that we have to shoulder full responsibility for a Balkan policy that makes it possible to put the brakes on these dealings as quickly and effectively as possible.
Some of us have ourselves visited the Bucharest centre that is actively dedicated specifically to combating these criminal activities, and I want to ask Commissioner Vitorino, as a matter of urgency, to collaborate to the utmost with Commissioner Patten in seeing to it that a stop is put to these criminal activities, which are giving the region a bad reputation.
