Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, please let me make three introductory comments.
The first is that I am very happy that we are dealing with the Trentin and Marinos reports in a joint debate, because that again gives clear expression to the fact that there is not only no contradiction between the stability and convergence programme and the Guidelines of the Economic Policies, but also that they even complement each other.
The second is that anyone comparing the Lisbon objectives with reality will be aware how much there is still to be done, and will see that there have been substantial delays in their being put into practice.
The Lisbon objectives, which are to make the EU into the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economic area, facilitating sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater cohesion, represent the goal to which all of us - Parliament, Council and Commission - give the highest priority and to which we have committed ourselves.
Thirdly, Commissioner, and speaking on behalf of my group, I fully support, as regards their content, the guidelines you have put forward and believe that their main features, despite a number of amendments we have also agreed to, are right and merit our entire support.
Our objective is best, and most safely, reached by way of the model of the environmentally responsible market economy.
I have to reiterate that, because the environmentally-responsible market economy incorporates on the one hand functioning free and liberalised markets and, on the other, sees responsibility towards enterprises, employees and consumers, along with sustainability, as part of its responsibility towards future generations.
I would like to appeal right now to an element among the speakers on the Left.
Let us at last stop playing social policy off against economic policy, and employment policy against price stability.
Growth and employment presuppose price stability, and social cohesion in our society presupposes growth and employment.
Those who jeopardise the Stability and Growth Pact are mortgaging the future and acting irresponsibly.
Those who abide by it have enough room for their political initiatives and investments to manoeuvre.
I call for greater consistency in implementing what we have agreed to and adhering to it.
The implementation of Lisbon, of the convergence criteria, of the Stability and Growth Pact, of the Action Plan for Financial Services, of the plans for liberalisation, offers enough opportunities for coordination.
Coordination at the expense of participation is something we will never agree to, but we will support coordination for the purpose of implementing our common objectives.
The internal market enhances competitiveness in Europe and in the world, but it does not ban competition within Europe.
We need competition in products and competition in systems!
