Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that you cannot control safety - you have to create it.
Listening to today's debate on food safety, I fear that we have not come very far in recent years.
Producers and consumers have the same objective, we are all in the same boat, so it is not just consumers that are affected but the producers themselves as well.
As I see it, consumers are quite right to be alarmed by the serious problems we have had recently, the string of scandals that have already been mentioned - BSE, dioxin, Nitrofen - it is a very long list.
Ultimately, however, the weakest link in the chain is always the farmer, the producer, who has taken a battering because of the price situation.
That is why the agricultural sector has a particularly great interest in achieving high quality in the upstream market.
I am at present rapporteur on the issue of additives in animal feed.
Commissioner, I am certainly in agreement with you in calling for very stringent measures to be applied to a wide variety of additives.
We are talking here about antibiotics and cocciodiostatic drugs.
I have just been discussing this with some of your colleagues.
As a practical person, I firmly believe that we got things adequately sorted out on paper a long time ago but, in practice, when it comes to implementation and control, I regret to say that we will still have a lot of black sheep to deal with in future.
We will only make progress here if the control system involves tougher sanctions.
As I see it, those who are too slack deserve to be pilloried and should have their quota withdrawn and their production units shut down.
Only if you point the way on this with our support can pressure be exerted to restore a reasonable situation in the European Union, one in which producers and consumers can process or consume food in the knowledge that it is safe and we can maintain the high quality of food that we have in the future as well.
I would like to fully support Mrs Roth-Behrendt's proposals, but we have spent over 20 years talking about people's willingness to spend more money on food; it is just that the distribution process has totally changed.
We need to be honest about the fact that many people simply cannot afford it.
They want it all.
They want not just to eat and drink, they also want to go on holiday, to travel, and so on and so forth.
That is why we have food that is virtually free.
