Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to thank the Commission for their balanced and pragmatic proposal and Mr Marinho for his report and for his willingness to cooperate in a constructive manner.
The Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs adopted this report by a large majority and thereby confirmed the rapporteur in his views.
The Commission proposal represents a perceptible advance on the Dublin Convention and is thus an important step towards the establishment of a common European asylum system.
The most important innovations are:
Firstly, the emphasis laid on the responsibility of the individual Member States when such Member States permit persons who have entered them illegally to remain in their national territory.
Secondly, the adaptation of the procedural time limits to the time limits for the granting and revocation of refugee status, ensuring that applications for asylum can be processed speedily.
Thirdly, the introduction of provisions aimed at maintaining the unity of the asylum seeker's family.
The procedures for determining which Member State is responsible are also intended to serve the purpose of sharing burdens fairly.
The making of the application in a specified Member State must not, therefore, create a fait accompli; that is, it must not determine responsibility.
This requirement is taken into account by the measures intended to simplify procedures and simultaneously speed them up, while maintaining the principle of responsibility, as does the planned less onerous burden of proof when determining which Member State is responsible.
It was thanks to a compromise with the rapporteur that we in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs were able to adopt a report that disregarded impractical and unacceptable amendments.
This opens up the possibility of the Commission, Parliament and the Council finding together a rational way of deciding on the responsibility of Member States in asylum matters.
The excluded amendments, which envisaged a widening of the family circle and the deletion of essential parts of the Regulation, were now reintroduced.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats rejects these amendments, particularly as regards their indiscriminate extension of the family circle, which would include, for example, dependant family members outside the nuclear family.
In the same way, when we vote tomorrow, we should give a clear rebuff to the idea of deleting essential parts of the Regulation.
Let me repeat: the Commission proposal is realistic and balanced.
It offers an array of improvements in comparison with the Dublin Convention.
There are no grounds for trying to recast this draft in a form that will, at the end of the day, benefit neither the applicants for asylum nor the Member States.
Thank you for your cooperation.
