Mr President, I would like to follow on from what Mr Karas has said, and refer to a level competitive playing field.
Yes, we certainly have an internal market, but we also have 15 sets of national circumstances within this internal market.
So there is not a level competitive playing field.
For example, there is not a level playing field between large companies and SMEs, because there are already wide differences in taxation between them, nor is there a level playing field between companies that operate globally and those that operate at regional level.
There is not a level playing field when you consider the system of taxes and charges in the Member States and how market access is guaranteed.
When we talk about wanting to become the most dynamic economic region in the world, that means that we have to increase our economic power.
In a nutshell, that means that we either have to rationalise, which is in the economic interest of individual companies, but not in our macroeconomic interest, as it of course involves job losses, or else we can increase turnover.
If we want to increase turnover, we need a market - we need customers.
Customers who must have money.
That means that we have to increase demand.
Demand must come from both public and private investment.
That means that people must obtain sufficient income from paid employment, if they are to be in a position to buy products in the first place.
It is no good having the very best, most well-designed, most durable and most keenly priced product if there are no customers who can pay for it.
I therefore simply believe that the contrast that is constantly made between economic policy and social policy is simply wrong.
Mr Radwan, you said that the best economic policy is simultaneously also the best social policy.
I would also like to turn that round: a good social policy is also a good economic policy.
I say that because there is a common denominator here, which is why investments have to be taken into account.
As I see it, education is not a form of consumption, but an investment in the future, because we have to develop new products.
To do that, we need a skilled workforce.
And that has to be built into this whole framework of investment activity.
