.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Zorba has raised the issue of protection for minors in sport.
In particular, she has referred to the risks involved in taking part in major sporting events for minors, who are often professionals or semi-professionals.
The subject of protection for young athletes was first approached in the declaration adopted by the European Council in Nice, which referred to the special nature of sport and its social function in Europe, and how these should be taken into account in common policies.
The Commission addressed this subject in the context of the Helsinki Report on Sport and of the European Sports Forum held on 26 and 27 October 2000 in Lille, particularly in the workshop on youth protection, and the special position of young people under 18 was examined in depth during the discussions between the Commission and FIFA on the rules for international transfers of football players, which were concluded in March 2001.
However, there is one thing we should not forget: protection of young athletes is largely the responsibility of the Member States.
Nevertheless, the Commission's own initiatives have done a great deal to encourage dialogue between the Member States on this problem.
In addition, whilst taking account of the principle of subsidiarity, measures have also been taken at Community level.
For example, on 22 June 1994 the Council adopted Directive 94/33 on youth employment protection.
This directive prohibits child labour, regulates work by minors and generally provides for all employees to guarantee that young people have working conditions appropriate to their age.
The key objective of the directive is therefore to promote better working conditions for minors without enforcing a total ban.
Lastly, the Commission has also launched various anti-doping measures, with particular reference to minors.
In 1999, a report was adopted on a plan for the Community's role in combating doping.
Furthermore, in the previous year various studies were financed, including a study on the protection of young athletes.
Lastly, the Commission is currently working on ideas for the implementation of a new Community anti-doping plan, which is intended to give even greater weight to the problems of combating doping amongst young people.
