.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes today's debate, which gives us the opportunity to draw up an interim balance sheet of democratic rights in Turkey and on the progress made in the area of political reforms.
The background to our debate is the decision taken in Helsinki in 1999 to accord Turkey candidate status, and the pre-accession strategy agreed on this basis.
All this strategy's elements have in the meantime been implemented.
Turkey has, in particular, in order to meet the priorities of the Accession Partnership, accepted a national programme for the adoption of the acquis communautaire, thus at last setting in motion a reform process that is also playing an ever greater role in public discussion in Turkey.
Initial results are already visible.
Last year's constitutional reform is evidence that Turkey is seriously getting to grips with the political reforms that are needed.
The Laeken European Council paid tribute to Turkey's efforts and noted that Turkey had moved closer to its objective of joining the European Union.
Allied with this is, though, the expectation on the part of the European Union that the reform process will be carried on consistently.
Turkey does not at present meet the political Copenhagen criteria.
During my conversations in Ankara a few days ago, I strongly encouraged the Turkish government to be determined in proceeding with their package of political and economic reforms.
My conversation partners, who were from all the parties in the present coalition government, confirmed to me both their desire for reform and their objective of rapprochement with the European Union.
In order to implement last year's constitutional changes, Turkey has, this month, enacted a first mini-package, the provisions of which the Commission welcomes in so far as they deal with pre-trial detention.
Although these provisions comply with EU standards, we take the view that they do not go far enough as regards freedom of opinion.
Having expected more extensive and comprehensive reforms in accordance with the constitution, we are unable to find much improvement in the new wording of the relevant articles as compared with the current legal provisions on freedom of opinion.
During my brief visit to Turkey, I therefore underlined our expectation that further steps would be taken in such areas as freedom of association, the use of languages in radio, television and education, the abolition of the death penalty and the introduction of fundamental legal rights in accordance with the case law of the European Court of Human Rights.
Alongside changes in the law, there need to be real changes on the ground through the way the law is interpreted in Turkey.
At the end of the day, we must not measure the human rights situation in Turkey according to what is written down, but have to judge it by what actually happens in practice from day to day.
State prosecutors and judges have an important part to play in this.
To this end, the Commission offers Turkey a range of training programmes, which are eagerly taken up.
The Commission, like Parliament, is observing developments in connection with the court case against the HADEP party in the Turkish Constitutional Court.
A new hearing is to begin on 1 March, that is, the day after tomorrow, and representatives from the Commission are endeavouring to be present at it.
It goes without saying that the Commission assesses this case on the basis of the Copenhagen political criteria, and so I can tell you that, in our view, a ban on the HADEP party in Turkey would offend against our political principles.
Last year, the Turkish parliament amended the constitution towards strengthening human rights in Turkey, but left untouched the legal basis for the banning of political parties.
It has therefore to be said that current provisions in Turkey cannot accord with EU standards.
The Commission therefore calls on the Turkish government to make further efforts to comply with these standards.
It can indeed be said that Turkey is in the midst of an intensive debate on the future course of its reform policy.
Positive steps, for example the constitutional reform, can be set against other areas, in which we continue to observe deficits.
As a result, though, I am confident that Turkey possesses the strength and the will to carry on with its reform policy.
I see Turkey's consent to the opening of an Amnesty International office as a favourable indication.
I also see it as positive that the mini-package to implement the constitutional reforms, enacted a few weeks ago, is soon to be followed by another package of legislative implementing measures, which is, apparently, to cover laws on the press and on public assembly, criminal law and the law on the powers of the police.
It is my hope and expectation that this legislation will clearly manifest a strong desire for reform, and so I take this opportunity again to encourage Turkey to strengthen democratic rights within its borders, set the relevant legislative initiatives in motion and bring them to a conclusion.
What is and will continue to be crucial, is that human rights are safeguarded in practice and that Turkey, as regards day-by-day social coexistence guarantees the benchmarks of a democratic and pluralist society.
It makes a nation - and the Turkish nation is no exception - stronger rather than weaker, when it sets itself the highest objectives as regards the realisation of democracy and human rights.
