Mr President, I wish first to pay tribute to the work put in by our rapporteur, who has made very great efforts to live up to the ideal of optimising the EU's asylum policy.
His guiding concern was, unmistakably, the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice.
He has taken very seriously the task enshrined in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
I only hope that we will all do likewise.
I think it right to speak at length about the Member States' responsibility in receiving applications for asylum and about which Member State should process them.
All this not only benefits the EU's citizens, but also the refugees, who then know exactly where they stand.
The increased threat of terror and the general rise in movements of refugees worldwide mean that we must at last give people a clear picture of what possibilities there are for them in the European Union.
It is therefore right that we should give careful thought in this draft Regulation to what is meant by families joining their head, and make this quite clear.
It is also very much the right thing to help bring families together, and it is important that this should be done.
Both these things contribute to a coherent policy on asylum.
We want every State to have the right to act in accordance with its national legislation, but this is not meant to stop anyone learning from other Member States.
We want to share in granting asylum and preventing abuses.
Not everything has to be the same from one State to another; we should be learning from one another how to protect refugees and how abuses can be prevented.
Another reason for us now to be discussing the apportionment of responsibilities among Member States is that the first candidates for accession will be joining the EU in the foreseeable future.
One thing is clear, namely that the EU must, as far as possible, have its policies on internal affairs, asylum, and immigration well in hand before the new members join.
We cannot face the new members with an incomplete asylum policy.
Much in the accession process will be difficult enough for them.
It is now, even before the first new States join us, that we need to create rules across the EU on precisely what Member States' responsibilities are towards refugees.
If we manage to get all the Member States to adhere to common rules, our work on this report will have given the project of an enlarged European Union and a common judicial area greater certainty and more success.
This proposal for a Council regulation gives us the chance to evaluate our experience of the Dublin Convention and let it have an influence on new legislation.
I hope we will all succeed in doing that.
