Mr President, Commissioner, I welcome the Commission proposals and support the rapporteur and the report as it was voted on in the committee.
However, I find the amendments tabled by the Greens and others absolutely unacceptable and counterproductive.
If accepted, they would bring about the rejection of the whole report, and so I hope that it will be the original report that will be supported, with the Commission proposals.
I will also tell you why in a few points: You Greens want to extend the concept of the family as far as it will go, far beyond the nuclear family and to the point of including de facto family members and friends.
By doing this, you will only promote immigration.
What this is about is help for refugees.
You also want to introduce options for applicants for asylum, so that they will be able, as it were, to decide for themselves in which Member State the procedure is to be dealt with.
By this, you are offending against the principle that the first Member State with which the application is lodged is to be responsible for examining it and the principle that burdens should be shared, something that we can achieve indirectly, and you would end up exacerbating the situation in countries which are, in any case, already struggling with the greatest integration problems.
You also want to do away with the instruments provided by the Commission and the rapporteur to combat abuses in situations involving false or invalid documents, expired visas and so on.
In doing that, you would not only be accepting abuses, but even promoting them and, with that, promoting non-compliance with existing legal standards.
Under no circumstances could we accept that.
If, in addition to that, you make all appeals have suspensive effect, you would thereby be hindering speedy and sure decisions and good solutions.
In this House, as in the committee, I can definitely tell you once again that we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats support the Commission proposals and those made by the rapporteur.
If, though, your amendments get a majority, or if even just one of them does, we intend to vote down the whole report.
