Mr President, High Representative, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the events of 11 September and subsequent action taken in Afghanistan and the current situation in the Middle East, have pushed into the background a matter that both Mr Solana and Mr Patten have mentioned, namely a peaceful settlement in Macedonia.
I wish to say a word of thanks to Mr Solana, the High Representative and also to Commissioner Patten, but also to all the others who have played their part there in making Macedonia peaceful today.
This is a gigantic success for the European Union, for which our Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats thanks you.
In these days and weeks, we are looking eastwards.
We expect there to be new countries in the European Union in the next few years.
I will, though, say quite emphatically and underline what the High Representative said, that it is important to our security in Europe that we achieve peace in the Middle East and that we, as Europeans, cooperate peacefully and well with all the countries of the Mediterranean region.
We will also state that, when these problems are under discussion, we must first just put people on centre stage.
We state quite clearly that the life and human dignity of a Christian and a non-Christian in Europe, the life of a Jew, an Israeli in Jerusalem or Tel Aviv and the life of a Palestinian, of a Muslim in Ramallah or the Gaza Strip are of the same value, and no distinction must be made between human rights in Europe, in the Islamic world or anywhere else on this earth.
(Applause)
We wholeheartedly agree with both Mr Solana and also Mr Patten in declaring our need of dialogue and of partnership.
These involve us telling the truth and not going along with irresponsible language.
When, for example, the Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon says, in Thursday's issue of 'Maariv' - and I am quoting him verbatim: 'In Lebanon' - that is, in 1982 - 'it was agreed that Arafat was not to be eliminated.
To tell the truth, I regret that we did not eliminate him.' - that is irresponsible language.
That is the sort of language that leads to war; it is not the sort of language that brings about reconciliation.
(Applause) I find it difficult, even in view of my nationality - and I was born after the war - to say this here.
I find it cynical of the Israeli Prime Minister to respond to our criticism of his attitude by speaking of a resurgence of anti-Semitism in Europe.
No, we are not anti-Semitic.
We want Israel to live in peace within secure borders.
In that, we stand alongside all Israelis.
This has absolutely nothing to do with anti-Semitism.
We reject that appellation with all the decisiveness we have.
(Applause)
We have, of course, demands to make of Yasser Arafat.
He wrote a remarkable article in the 'New York Times' a few days ago.
In it he says that he intends to redouble his efforts against terrorism from the Palestinian side, thus expressing the possibility that he might not have previously done all that was necessary.
So we also call on Yasser Arafat to do more in this respect in the places where he has influence, knowing as we do that he does not have all the Palestinian groupings under his control.
Mr Solana also mentioned the weapons shipments on the Karine-A.
We too want to have information on who they were intended for.
We urge Arafat to provide information on this.
I believe that we Europeans have, along with the Americans, a great task ahead of us.
The Americans, though, must also understand that they have to give Israel and Palestine equal treatment, and that both sides have the same dignity.
Secretary of State Powell, in an interview a few days ago, spoke of Palestine's right to exist, its right to be a state.
All this we welcome.
I think that we, Europeans and Americans together, now have a common task, to contribute to peace in that region.
Yasser Arafat is, of course, the elected President of Palestine.
If we do not accept him as a partner in dialogue, then there can be no peace and no dialogue.
We therefore call on Ariel Sharon and Yasser Arafat to make a start on peace by talking to each other so that people in the region, in the Middle East, can have a future worthy of human beings.
All those who promote that, such as Javier Solana, Chris Patten and others, have the full support of our group.
(Applause)
