Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Europeans travel across their continent without border controls, paying with the same money, and carrying passports of the same colour.
That there is a European identity over and above all national differences has never been a matter of dispute.
The wonderful thing is, though, that more and more Europeans are experiencing this in their daily lives.
The European youth and education programmes, of which this Youth programme is one, have played a great part in this success.
As the rapporteur has just said, it is one of the Community's most important support programmes, being the only one open to all young people without reference to their working or educational situation.
We have already heard that over 10 000 projects, with over 100 000 participants, were financed in 2000 alone.
We see this success as considerable, as we are talking here only about the first year of implementation.
Good news like this should not, of course, have a detrimental effect on the Member States' national youth programmes, which could perhaps take the Youth programme's success as a pretext for cutting back on their own resources.
I will therefore reiterate that the Youth programme was created in order to support and supplement the Member States' actions, rather than to discharge the Member States from their obligations.
Quite on the contrary, the countries participating in the programme should make it easier for young people with an interest in the programme to take part in it, by reducing the administrative expenditure and, as the report was right to observe, granting the participants visas, where necessary, automatically and free of charge.
One of this programme's important objectives is the greater involvement of disadvantaged young people, for whom, according to the Commission, 50% of the centrally-managed projects were intended.
Short-term voluntary service, which was created especially for disadvantaged young people, has, however, not yet been made use of to a satisfactory extent, and the objective set of 20% of these resources was not attained.
I see that, though, as appropriate.
It is appropriate in terms of the programme's resources, rated at just about EUR 80 million, and of the relatively high administrative costs of EUR 12 million, and the Commission should succeed in achieving this objective.
I take the view that such high administrative costs are defensible if new sources of participants are actually found and disadvantaged young people are brought into the programme to an appreciable degree.
