Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating the members of the committee, and particularly the rapporteur, on the extremely careful and valuable work they have done, as well as thanking them for both their excellent suggestions and critical comments.
Very progressive and inspiring ideas have been explored, and these encourage the Commission to continue its efforts towards this objective.
Every year, we observe how effective, efficient and innovative our dual strategy is, involving as it does on the one hand, the inclusion of gender mainstreaming in all the Commission's areas of activity, and, on the other, the implementation of specific measures of positive action in favour of women.
As we did in the last annual report, we have taken care, in the report on 2001, to take your comments and proposals into account.
Your proposals, suggestions and concerns will, of course, also be taken into account in preparing and elaborating the report on 2002, work on which has already started.
I would like, at this point to enlarge on one point in particular, the evaluation issue.
I am already in a position to inform you that, in 2003, evaluation will be carried out by means of two methods which, although different, complement each other.
As happens every year, what we call a gender scoreboard will be set up, whilst it is planned that a second evaluation will be carried out by external experts.
These efforts have to do both with the assessment of the 2001-2005 framework strategy and also with the financial plan.
It is envisaged that a provisional report on these activities will appear at the end of 2003.
Turning to lawmaking, we will support the revision of the directive on the equal treatment of women and men, planned for 2003, by, among other things, drawing up a report evaluating the implementing measures taken at national level.
It is precisely this to which you have just drawn attention, and we will make it our common concern to carry out an assessment in this area.
The object of the revision of the equal treatment directives is to simplify them, help to make them more coherent, and bring them into line with the acquis communautaire.
Another reason why the coming year will be significant is that we will be focussing on how to balance the participation of women and men in the decision-making processes.
In this respect, too, we are endeavouring to achieve tangible results in all areas, with women becoming better represented in all sectors, including in the social partners.
Your report will be a very valuable help to us in doing this.
In 2004, we will be concentrating on the crucial area of combating negative stereotyped images of women.
Misogynistic clichés, being a substantial obstacle to equal treatment for both genders, can and must be combated.
This will be a comprehensive action, aimed at all the actors, with the objective of robbing obsolete ways of thinking of their power and, in the medium term - who knows? - perhaps even completely eradicating them.
In any case, misogynistic clichés should soon be seen as ridiculous relics of times that are no more.
Parliament has insisted on the best possible utilisation of funds for this purpose.
Let me, in this context, remind you of the assessment to be carried out by outside experts, and, furthermore, bring to your attention the imminent adoption of a Commission communication on the introduction of the gender question in the Structural Fund.
This communication will be a valuable instrument in the programme's mid-term assessment.
Although the candidate countries have made evident efforts to transpose the acquis communautaire on equal treatment, substantial advances remain to be made, and so the Commission will continue to give the utmost attention to this topic.
The success of European enlargement policy is dependent on the common rules being correctly applied.
In this respect, the role of the programme of action, with which eight candidate countries have associated themselves this year, is that of giving impetus, and a valuable one.
I would like to conclude by returning to the issue of violence against women, in relation to which the Commission welcomes the Council's framework resolution of 19 July 2002 on the fight against trafficking in human beings.
This resolution is of great importance in terms of the conclusions to be drawn at criminal level as regards the trafficking in human beings.
The Commission will follow closely the way in which this resolution is transposed into the laws of individual states, and will work very closely with the committee in closely monitoring this as well.
