Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is marked by a good sense of community and by confidence in Europe's future.
Positive emotions help to overcome the difficulties that still await the candidate countries.
Processes of economic adjustment call for the greatest political and social commitment on the part of all sides.
The processes of restructuring heavy industry and mining alone will call for an intensification of accompanying measures to combat rising unemployment.
This makes it necessary to use all available measures that might help to prevent it, and to step up the social dialogue in the candidate countries.
That alone will guarantee that social and labour legislation will continue to progress along democratic lines.
We talk a great deal, and on many occasions, about the social dimension of Europe, but deliberately forget to point out that legislation on social affairs is just as important a constituent part of the acquis as are, for example, the provisions on competition.
The transposition of the social acquis has an importance extending right across Europe, as it can be a means towards achieving stability preventing potential conflicts.
In view of this, I ask you to adopt the two amendments in the name of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, tabled by Mr Oostlander and myself.
In the time that remains to us before the candidate countries accede, much remains to be done in the areas of employment policy, economic policy and social policy.
It is incumbent on those Member States that share borders with the candidate countries to support cross-border cooperation and press for advances in it.
Workers in these regions must be helped to come to terms better with changes in the labour market.
This alone will enable us to dismantle prejudices that still affect the freedom of movement of services and workers.
I wish to conclude by emphasising that, in any case, the candidate countries deserve the greatest respect for the efforts they have made to date with accession to the EU in mind.
