Mr President, I assume that it had escaped Mr de Gaulle's mind that our discussion today is on theatre rather than television or journalists.
I would prefer to speak to the matter on the agenda.
I wish to congratulate Mrs Fraisse and say something on just a couple of points that have not yet been mentioned today.
First of all, I am glad that a Member has taken up this matter again after an interval of ten years, in the course of which the issue has lost none of its topicality.
It was in 1992 that I produced a report on the state of artists, and I can only say that I still search in vain today for the practical results that the Commission could have brought about in these ten years.
Whilst believing that the topics addressed today are very multi-faceted, I would nonetheless like to limit myself to two things, the first being the way in which the cultural sector is financed at both national and European level.
It is the subject of politicians' speeches, but does not give rise to political action, and it is for that reason that I believe much is still amiss in this area.
I would like to observe that there are two things that are in need of improvement.
Firstly, the Culture 2002 programme, to which Mrs Reding has already referred, has to have more money allocated to it; if the Council of Ministers suddenly attaches such importance to culture, then it should provide funds for it.
In addition, we should also bear in mind that it is the performing arts that are popular with quite specific viewers and listeners.
So far, these are small-scale projects, for which the Commission has no love, but which we want because the public likes them!
Secondly, the private sector must be involved more than it has been before.
Patronage and sponsorship are important.
There are no Budget resources available, and so we have to look for ways to enable people with a lot of money to spend it in the right way.
That is why we should do more about this.
I regret the way that the coalition agreements in my own country mean that it is precisely this that is to be done away with.
Thirdly, artists face a very large number of technical obstacles in terms of the material they have to work with, and here in particular the Commission could really do something, for example, for circuses and small travelling theatres.
Please do something in this area; it would be a great help to the performers!
