Madam President, as others have already said, these death sentences have absolutely nothing to do with the war on terrorism.
However, that also demonstrates that we have a responsibility to wage that war.
The United States also bears that responsibility within the international institutions, the United Nations and under international law.
If you only fight terrorism - and that is unfortunately a danger that also exists in Washington - strictly by means of a coalition of the major powers, there is a risk that those powers will misuse that war on terror for their own ends: Moscow will use it against the Chechens and Beijing will use it against Tibet.
We need to be fully aware that the sort of repression that has been practised in Tibet or in Chechnya is no way to fight terrorism, it will simply engender it.
We were talking earlier on about mountain regions.
A few decades back there were even bomb attacks here in the Community, in the South Tyrol, which is nowadays a peaceful model region of Europe of which we can be proud.
There were even extremist movements in our European democracies.
That sounds unlikely today, because by granting autonomy we have ensured that no one takes separatist or terrorist action.
We now feel comfortable in the greater community of Europeans and regard ourselves as being at the heart of Europe.
My message to the Chinese is therefore this: 'Give the Tibetans autonomy, give them democracy, and give them human rights!'
That is the way to fight terrorism and separatism.
That is a successful approach that will not lead to terrorism but will genuinely bring peace and ensure that peace will prevail in the world's most important and most historically precious mountain region, peace that can be a model for the entire world.
The motion for a resolution before us has much to recommend it, but the wording is rather infelicitous, by which I mean the phrase 'the Tibetan minority in China'.
Of course, in comparison with China's massive population, we are all minorities.
However, what we are talking about here is the great Tibetan people with its ancient world culture, which is a valuable heritage for mankind.
We appeal to the Chinese to respect this people and its culture as full partners, just as we treat the Tibetans and Chinese as equals.
