Mr President, Commissioner, ladies, gentlemen, and our erstwhile lady colleague, I believe that any framework directive or Green Paper should take into account our previous experience with services of general interest.
That being so, I want to give an example of how we in this House can bring some influence to bear.
If we were actually to manage to at last make some progress with the legislation on local public transport, we would have done a substantial chunk of Parliament's and the Council's work.
Here, for once, I would like to give the Commission credit for submitting a very specific proposal for a regulation on local public transport as long ago as 2000.
We in this House delivered an unambiguous opinion on it in 2001.
And what is the Council doing?
It has shoved the draft in a drawer, done nothing with it, and still does not want to do anything with it.
I believe that we have to make it clear to the Council that we will not put up with further delays on matters as fundamental as the right range of services provided to people in towns and in the regions, but may well have to consider bringing proceedings against the Council in respect of its failure to act.
Why, ladies and gentlemen, is this issue of legislation on local public transport so important?
The law on the situation we are in is unclear.
We have the option of awaiting rulings from the ECJ, but we want the decisions on what public transport systems should be like to be taken politically, and so we, the towns, the communities and private enterprise, need legal certainty as to how local public transport is to be organised.
The second point I want to address is as follows.
I believe that a slip of the tongue has crept in here.
Services of general interest and competition are not mutually exclusive, but are, in my view, mutually complementary, something that we see particularly clearly in local public transport.
If, in the exercise of its responsibilities for public services, the city or the region makes the right decision and defines what is required of local public transport - its accessibility to disabled people, the timetables, the intervals between services and the fares; you can add all the social factors you want - then, Mr President, it must be put out to tender, and then the best offer must be accepted, whether it be from the public or private sector.
It is competition that decides, and the public that benefits.
