Mr President, anyone who does as I and a number of my colleagues in this group have done, and spends time with the fishermen on the Galician coast, will discover how urgently European aid is needed there.
I think this House would do well to agree to that today and tomorrow.
Arriving in Santiago de Compostela, one is aware that it marks the end of the Way of St James, with which the Commissioner will be familiar.
The Way of St James is the route taken by pilgrims and sinners in order to do penance for their sins.
We know that this path ought to be trudged by a whole host of Heads of State and Government, along with their Transport Ministers, in order to do penance for their sins of omission.
The sin recorded against their names is that of inadequate port State control.
If you sign up to 25%, but only manage to come up with 9%, as one Member State has done, then that amounts to a great sin.
The charge sheet reads: lack of a decent system of European ports of refuge.
Mr Haarder, that was decided on a considerable time ago, but the Council has not yet set it up.
The charge sheet reads: absolute failure when it comes to a compensation fund for oil disasters.
Parliament decided on this one and a half years ago, but until today the Council has had nothing to say on the subject.
Mr Haarder, the Prestige sailed past Copenhagen.
Let us remind ourselves of the route it took.
Coming from Latvia, it passed through the Baltic, the Skaggerak, the Channel, the Bay of Biscay and past Galicia - it could have happened anywhere.
In the Baltic, though, there are four candidate countries, which keep themselves well covered when it comes to safety at sea.
Malta and Cyprus were always among the flags of convenience under critical discussion.
Commissioner, what we need from the Commission by April 2003 is a report deciding whether and, if so, how all these candidate countries should play their part in Europe's policy on safety at sea.
The Prestige - as Mr Haarder will be aware - could also have broken up in the 'Kadettrinne', one of the most dangerous places in the Baltic Sea, the scene of innumerable accidents, near-accidents and ships being driven the wrong way.
This is where we need to make pilots mandatory.
The Council and the Commission must bring pressure to bear on Russia in order to get a general requirement for pilots introduced via the IMO.
This is one of the most dangerous places in Europe for traffic at sea.
If it is our intention to withdraw single-hulled tankers from circulation, then we need more double-hulled tankers.
Perhaps you could have a word with your fellow-Commissioner Mr Monti about what we should do about future aid for Europe's shipyards.
