Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market probably got its best birthday present today in the form of the Commissioner's words that, despite its achievements, his patience is wearing thin.
I thank you for your impatience, hoping that, for the good of the internal market, all who operate in it and especially all who impede its progress will be made increasingly aware of how impatient you are.
Europe must become a continent, and the EU must become a political union.
We therefore give an unreserved 'yes' to an internal market that is developing fully and is able to give full expression to its dynamism for the good of Europe.
We have only a year left to implement the internal market strategy for 1999/2004, a year in which we will need greater seriousness of purpose in place of half-heartedness, more speed in place of hesitancy and greater responsibility for the whole rather than parochialism.
There is no mistaking the internal market's significance, which became apparent in the aftermath of 11 September.
The stronger our internal market, the stronger is Europe's position in the world, and the more independent we are.
This, then, makes me very glad that we are now discussing enlargement, as enlargement will extend our internal market and thereby strengthen Europe.
The euro has made the internal market into a domestic market for many countries and thus strengthened it overall, so I also want to expressly welcome the internal market safeguard clause in the accession treaties.
Directives need to be transposed with greater speed.
We need the decision-making process to be speeded up, rather than have it take twenty-eight months as it did with company pension schemes.
We need a debate to get the regulation of competences revised in the light of the internal market strategy and of the Lisbon strategy and made the basis of the work in the Convention.
So what I expect of you - even bearing your impatience in mind - is that you avail yourself more of your right of initiative and name names rather than keeping quiet about those who are blocking progress.
