Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, with the permission of the Members of this House, I would like to use this speech to make a statement relating to my twin roles, as rapporteur for Malta, and also as co-chairman of the Joint Committee on the Czech Republic.
Today makes me proud, as Parliament has today demonstrated its openness and signalled to the candidates for accession that they are welcome among us.
European parliamentarism has thereby shown signs of being very much alive.
The impression I get from today's debate with the candidate countries is of how self-evident the whole thing is, that it is normal for Europe to meet together, for the first time in a peaceful, voluntary and democratic way.
For Austria in particular, a country in the heart of Europe, this means that, following Europe's division by the consequences of the Second World War, a corner has been rounded on the way to a better, more economically and socially stable Europe with an added value in terms of security policy.
We are continuing a Central European tradition, one which has been particularly brought home to us today by the 90th birthday of Otto von Habsburg, the committed MEP and son of an emperor.
We must not, of course, allow the historical perspective to distract our attention from the problems of today.
There is still much to be done in the run-up to accession - corruption has to be combated, just as administrative systems and an independent workable justice system have to be built up.
There must of course be safety in the nuclear field, and so I welcome the expectation expressed in the report on the Czech Republic that the bilateral undertakings negotiated by the European Commission with regard to Temelin will be adhered to in full, and that, furthermore, power stations such as Ignalina and Koslodui, with parts of Bohunice, must be closed down.
We can welcome the transitional arrangements that demonstrate flexibility in making it possible for the labour market and vulnerable sectors of the economy to be protected.
The progressive introduction of direct payments to farmers in the candidate countries - primarily Poland - also makes sense.
Such arrangements are in no way a handicap.
Processes of integration have always been accompanied by transitional arrangements and by temporary safeguard clauses such as those to which you, Mr Verheugen, have referred.
If enlargement were to fail, the Austrian economy would lose EUR 270 million per annum.
The removal of barriers to trade alone amounts to EUR 450 million per annum, meaning that every Austrian is investing EUR 28 per annum in enlargement.
Enlargement of the EU is where our future lies.
There are problems from the past that need to be dealt with, and it is in this sense that the additional clause proposed by Jürgen Schroedter - who is the rapporteur on the Czech Republic - on the subject of the Bene? decrees, should be understood.
I wish to fully endorse what he said in his speech advocating support for this article.
By giving broad-based support to this amendment, Parliament would be sending out a positive message.
Let me now turn to my own report on Malta.
It is a good thing that there is also a Mediterranean component to enlargement.
Malta is a small island state, and there is no doubt that it is in the European Union that its future lies.
The problems of integration to be overcome have essentially to do with agriculture and subsidies to dockyards.
Malta also has a profoundly European heritage.
Austria has a particular interest in Malta because thousands of our holidaymakers go there every year and because we have a share in the privatised airport.
Speaking in political terms, we hope that the outcome of a referendum on Malta's accession to the EU will be accepted as the people's democratic choice, for there will not be a third chance!
