Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are in all nine directives on equal treatment, but no measures to improve their implementation.
That is why we need data and statistics to facilitate comparative assessments based on which solutions can be identified.
A simple statement that men and women are equal before the law is not enough.
The Commission's priority theme for 2001 was equal pay.
However, the report once again reminds us that women's pay for the same or equivalent work continues to average only 76% of men's pay.
The Joint Report on Employment for 2001 states that the Member States have taken only limited measures to reduce this pay differential, and the Commission needs to play an active role here, especially with the prospect of enlargement.
The committee is actively working on the priority themes for 2002 and 2003 - the reconciliation of work and family life and the participation of women in decision-making processes.
The provisions in force at present will have to be better adapted to current requirements.
If women, and men too, opt for family life and to have children, that should not prevent them from participating in working life.
Women need to be involved in decision-making processes at all levels.
The only way to make credible progress with a policy for both sexes is by means of mutual cooperation based on equal opportunities.
Commissioner, some good projects have been worked out by women's organisations, but those organisations need more information on access to the Commission's system of financing and aid.
The objective should be to ensure that as many stakeholders as possible can participate in the relevant programmes.
After all, appropriations are made available every year to support projects relating to women, for example in the Structural Funds and in particular in the 2000-2006 action programme.
However, the procedures involved need to be rationalised and simplified, because they are too complicated, both at Community and at national level.
I would like to conclude by very sincerely thanking Mrs Rodi Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou for her balanced report.
Unfortunately, the limited time we have available means that I can only touch on a few points.
