Mr President, Commissioner Vitorino, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish initiative and Mr Coelho's report represent the fulfilment of a longstanding parliamentary demand.
Europol and Eurojust are now at last to be given the right to access the Schengen Information System, something that in the light of new threats from organised criminality and terrorism is also an urgent necessity.
It is also a real step forward that invitations to tender can be collated.
In his report, Mr Coelho addresses the issues and problems relating to data protection and puts forward well-reasoned proposals for resolving them.
His report therefore deserves wholehearted support.
As this House's former rapporteur on the development of the second-generation Schengen Information System, I would like to take this opportunity to again urge the Commission and the Council to act with speed.
Mr Coelho himself has already pointed out that access will be able to be extended to certain persons or bodies only in conjunction with this new generation.
This development must be complete by 2006 at the latest, and even that is actually two years too late, because, as we all know, the eastward enlargement is to be accomplished in 2004.
We do, though, have to think further ahead.
There are indications that the Convention will dispense with the existing three-pillar model of the European Union, and I say that it is right to do so, as it was the intergovernmental 'justice and home affairs' pillar that originally caused the data protection problem that we are discussing.
The application of fifteen different sets of national data protection rules within Europol and Eurojust is even now leading to chaos.
In addition, a lack of parliamentary and judicial oversight has resulted in a democratic deficit such as would make Montesquieu turn in his grave.
The Convention's Working Party X has now, quite rightly, proposed that Europol be incorporated into the Community sphere, but, Commissioner Vitorino, that will not be enough.
What is needed is the complete incorporation of the Schengen Agreement as well as of Europol and Eurojust into the Community sphere, and the establishment of what one might call 'Eurobord', an additional coordinating body for the external borders.
Under this one roof we need a unitary system, combining the Schengen Information System, the customs information system and the Europol database, that is subject to European data protection and monitored by a European Data Protection Commissioner, by Parliament and by the European Court of Justice.
Let me just say something to the left-wingers in this House.
I see that Mr Krarup is here.
Mr Krarup, you are opposed to the Schengen Information System and would like to see it abolished.
This is all I have to say to that: anyone who concerns himself with the fate of refugees and stands up for them, whilst at the same time ignoring the fact that there are also criminals and lawbreakers outside Europe, has the misfortune to live in a dream world and takes an irresponsible, not to say unscrupulous attitude towards our people.
You will not get a majority in this House!
Mr Coelho's report, which we are adopting today, is a step in the right direction, but it is the Convention that will have to make the great leaps.
For that, Commissioner, we wish you every success and perhaps a little more courage than you have hitherto demonstrated!
