Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Verheugen, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to preface my observations with an expression of my own gratitude and that of my group, for this debate, and also for all the work of reporting on enlargement and of preparation for it, which I address to the Commission among others.
To say this, Commissioner, is not just to pay lip-service, for we have indeed received all the information we needed whenever we needed it.
We have carried on the debate in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Human Rights, Common Security and Defence Policy, and I also want to thank that committee's chairman, not only for his report but also for all the cooperation that was involved.
It is my belief that all groups and all the political forces on the committee did their best to accompany this process in a critical frame of mind and have helped to make it, and enlargement, a success.
I have two specific points that I wish to address in addition to what my fellow-Members have said about the individual countries and also about the general aspect, which was apposite and intelligent.
These have to do with two very real problems.
My first point has to do with Cyprus, specifically with the UN Secretary-General's proposal on the subject, which has been welcomed by all sides.
There is, however, one item in Annex IX that could lead to misunderstandings; I refer to the proposals relating to Article 1(1) on a referendum of the citizens in this divided country when the Basic Agreement is adopted.
The questions in this referendum are to be answered with 'yes' or 'no'.
They deal firstly with the new structure of the state and then with Cyprus' accession to the European Union.
It is my belief that the European Union ought, quite independently of this - I am glad that I can already expect something of you, Commissioner - to decide this question in accordance with the Helsinki accords, and Cyprus should have its say on the subject.
The second issue has to do with Turkey.
I would like to remind you that we are not debating Turkey today, but are engaged in the debate on enlargement, and, although Turkey has had candidate status since 1999, it is not one of the countries expecting to accede in the immediate future.
The Copenhagen political criteria have still not been fulfilled, despite Turkey's great efforts in that direction, the great successes it has had and the great progress it has made.
I therefore see no reason to talk in terms of this or that date.
Let me tell you this, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: fixing a date is not an issue, at any rate not for us!
