Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, those of us who sit on the Committee on Budgets have had a truly great task laid on our shoulders, and I am both glad and grateful that there is one thing that has so far on this occasion become abundantly clear.
It is a matter of common knowledge that this is, on the one hand, about getting very diverse things done very quickly because people really are waiting for assistance after having undergone something that we can scarcely imagine.
On the other hand, we would have to toil our way through three complicated subject areas if we were actually to be able to do something that will be equal to the pressures of the future.
For a start, we have to create a legal basis; one is in place today.
We have today already been engaged in negotiations about it, and have had discussions about it in a very good atmosphere.
I believe we will be able to come to an agreement.
The Committee on Budgets attached primary importance to the need to embody all this in an Interinstitutional Agreement.
We have to take care that we do not only give people the impression that we are now able to give aid with all speed, but must at the same time make it robust enough for it to last, to fit into the overall framework, to stand the test of time, and ensure that others affected at a later date may know that there are some things on which they can rely.
What we must not do is again dangle a carrot before them and then later have to say that there is no basis capable of supporting what we want to do.
We have therefore put the emphasis on three things.
The legal basis must be decided on as soon as possible, and so we have cooperated very constructively with the Committee on the Regions, to which I am very grateful for having taken the majority of our amendments on board.
Today, the Interinstitutional Agreement is as good as concluded, but just one small problem remains.
The Commission must, as soon as possible, propose a supplementary and amending budget in which the money - the EUR 1 billion of which we are speaking - is actually made available as quickly as possible, and an appeal can be made to the Member States to produce the figures with all speed so that we can make progress on this.
In our budgetary capacity, we have agreed that we want, in future, to hold out this EUR 1 billion at least as an offer.
We will work together with everyone else as quickly as possible, but it must also be clear that we will do this as thoroughly as possible.
My present optimism is founded on my past experience, in this House, of cooperation across all national boundaries, without regard to political allegiances, between the committees and also between the institutions - Parliament, the Council, and the Commission.
I believe that the people of Europe can know that here there is real cooperation with human beings in mind.
We, who, in our budgetary capacity are otherwise meant to focus our attention more or less exclusively on money, now know how valuable the human dimension is.
There is now a need to provide assistance as quickly as possible, here and now, in Germany, in Austria, in the Czech Republic and, in future, also in regions which in the past sometimes felt that we, unfortunately, could not really meet their needs adequately.
