Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I count myself among those who wish to extend the warmest of congratulations to the Council Presidency on its success.
Whilst I think that what was achieved in Copenhagen will still be sending out signals long after the end of the summit and will be of great significance for European integration in the twenty-first century, I of course want to pour a certain amount of cold water on this achievement in order to enlarge on a few points.
The first topic that I wish to address is as follows.
We are of course already expecting the Czech Republic to take the initiative in making an unambiguous statement, even before we are called upon to vote on its accession treaty in this Parliament.
In November, with reference to the Brok Report, Parliament expressed its position with perfect clarity.
Secondly, President Prodi and Commissioner Verheugen, I would like to ask the Commission to give some thought to how we can work together to develop a sort of third way as regards Turkey.
How do we bridge the gap in time between monitoring the compliance with the criteria and the day when we actually discuss negotiations?
What types of cooperation can we offer that are in both Turkey's interests and our own?
I think these considerations make 2003 a very important year.
We should all - Council, Commission and Parliament - be working together on how a large number of individual projects, ranging from customs union to the common foreign and security policy, can enable us to achieve a new kind of co-existence with an important strategic neighbour.
My last topic, one that I want to address briefly, is the need for us to resist all the attempts at blackmail that are being made even from within the European Union.
I do not want to go into the details right now, but various Council working parties are meeting right now to resolve a problem for a Member State that joined in 1995.
I think there should be no support here for attempts at extortion on the part of Member States, and I am very grateful to the Council and to you, Mr President-in-Office, for not yielding to them.
