Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the undoubted success of the Brussels Summit was primarily brought about, of course, by the compromise that was reached on agricultural funding.
This is a compromise with which it is possible to live, but many speakers have already alluded to the fact that it is no substitute for reform of European agricultural policy.
I wish to call upon you, Mr President of the Council, to do something that is made urgent by the decision we are to take tomorrow, namely, to maintain dialogue with Parliament on agricultural policy reform, without leaving out the Commission or, when he comes up with sensible proposals, Commissioner Fischler, who is responsible for these matters.
Secondly, the safeguard clause, to which reference has already been made, is an important factor in building our countries' confidence that reforms and the reform process in the candidate countries will be continued with.
I would ask you, Mr President of the Council, to see to it that this safeguard clause also includes consultation with the countries concerned, so that the procedure may be one on which there is general agreement.
In third place comes the issue of Turkey.
Both of you have let it be known that we can look forward to decisions specifically relating to Turkey being taken in Copenhagen.
It is my opinion that any response to the new government has to be a cautious one.
There is no need for it to be met with mistrust, greeted with premature praise, or declared to be whiter than white.
This government must first demonstrate its ability to implement the decisions taken by the previous parliament, to recognise human rights and the rights of minorities, and Turkey has to show its ability to handle a change of government without military intervention.
Any promises we make to Turkey must be ones that we are prepared to keep over the next few years.
Our actions in this area will be judicious if we bear that in mind.
There is no doubt that it is tactically astute not to discuss further steps towards enlargement right now, but I would like to emphatically underline what was said by the President of the Commission.
Particularly as regards the Balkans, it is important to indicate by word and deed - as Brussels has done - that when these countries are prepared to implement economic reforms, when they are ready to give recognition to human and minority rights, when they are ready to take the road that leads to full democracy, then the Balkan countries can join the EU - not today, not tomorrow, but the day after tomorrow.
This is a clear signal that they should take the road to democracy and the acknowledgement of human rights, and an incentive for them to do so.
