Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us today a wide-ranging revision of the law on medicinal products in Europe.
This will have an impact on the competitiveness of companies of all sizes in this sector and accordingly on a great many jobs.
However, it also of course affects the entire trade, pharmacists and, last but not least, the patient.
This mammoth document is, amongst other things, the result of a new strategy that the Commission has already been pursuing for several years.
The volume of Community law, which currently stands at over 80 000 pages, is to be simplified and tightened up.
In the case of this particular revision, a single legislative act is to be adopted, taking account of the various substantive changes required and codifying the remaining provisions.
The many amendments tabled in committee and now once again in the plenary are just one indication of how difficult this undertaking is.
I have enormous respect for the massive amount of work put in by the Commission and by our two rapporteurs, Mrs Grossetête and Mrs Müller, but I am genuinely concerned that we may to some extent have lost track of the overall picture, so that some apparently less important issues have not perhaps been attended to.
That is why I would like to draw your attention to homeopathic medicines, not just for humans but also for animals, and I urge you to support these amendments too.
The European Parliament is a co-legislator here and we need to make sure that we do our work carefully.
At first reading, we still have a lot of opportunities, but we should also leave the way open for the second reading.
That is why I am asking for your support, but I am also calling on the Legal Service and on our rapporteurs to check whether the final outcome is coherent.
Only the future can tell whether this pharmaceutical legislation will be easier for the Member States and other stakeholders to apply because of its reduced linguistic complexity.
I would like to thank everyone involved and hope that this magnum opus will be a success.
