Mr President, European competition policy is one of the European Union's central policy instruments and that is why I would very much welcome it if the Commission were to stand alongside Parliament and also include this sector in the codecision procedure.
I really do think it is important for us to make competition policy more democratic and invest it with greater legitimacy than it has had so far, because after all the decisions that the European Union makes on the internal market, the market economy and competition are justified by the fact that competition has a distributive function and is therefore said to contribute to fair income distribution, increase social welfare and act as a mechanism to ensure that the factors of production are efficiently allocated.
This should improve supply to the benefit of producers and consumers and finally it should also act as an incentive to promote technical progress and maximise the national product.
Obviously we all consider market power and processes of concentration to be damaging.
These considerations should also play a role in our debate about a constitution and in the revision of the treaties, and I very much hope that they will also be even more visible in the application and reform of competition law.
Finally, this policy must also be brought into line with the Lisbon process and its objectives.
That is why the annual report is certainly a successful report and it is also positive that for the first time it addresses the issues surrounding services of general interest.
Unlike Mr Langen, I expect the Green Paper to provide not only a thorough analysis of how to handle the provision of public services of general interest, but also a decision on a starting point for future legislation.
In this context, I welcome the fact that you wish to put the public service guarantee on the same footing as the principle of free competition.
I hope that the Commission will produce a proposal for a framework regulation or framework directive as quickly as possible and that it will take account of national specificities and traditions and in particular leave it up to the Member States to define public services.
Commissioner, you were right to say how important it is to control cartels and mergers.
I should like to stress once more here that there is certainly a need to analyse the individual parts of the latest court rulings in precise detail and to draw conclusions from them.
But these court rulings do not in any way dent Parliament's confidence in the Commission's competence, which has been amply proven over the years.
Commissioner, I should like to ask you to take greater account of workers' rights in your merger control work ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
