Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have an almost balanced representation of Members here today for this debate on women's rights.
On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would like to thank the Commission and Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou for their reports.
The Commission has succeeded particularly well in giving clear pointers for the way forward in equal opportunities, by means of the framework strategy on gender mainstreaming and the associated fifth action programme on gender equality.
More rapid progress is being made in some areas.
Last year, we adopted the directive on equal treatment in employment.
That is a milestone, and we keenly await the first evaluation report.
In other areas, things are taking a little longer.
However, there are already clear pointers in the case of the Structural Funds and as regards combating violence.
I would like to point out that we in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities have already on several occasions proposed what was agreed here this morning: to make 2004 the European Year of Education through Sport.
This House and I myself have for many years been calling for a European year of action against violence.
I hope that will be picked up again.
We are also very anxious to see the proposal for a directive under Article 13 banning discrimination.
There is also some delay on that.
This needs to be pursued with great vigour.
We also need to maintain the political will to make progress in involving women at all levels of decision making, both legally speaking and in practice.
The outcome of the Convention in that respect has been very disappointing, so we need to act now.
There is also still a great deal to be done in the European Parliament, and my criticisms are accordingly also aimed at this House.
Let us not beat about the bush - Parliament is lagging somewhat behind the Commission when it comes to implementing gender mainstreaming internally.
We need to make progress both in terms of political decision-making and as regards the administration.
Balanced participation of women and men can only be achieved if a genuine political will exists, and it requires a top-down approach.
We are particularly looking to the political group chairs, to the President of Parliament and to the committee chairs to set a clear example.
We are at present working in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities on an initiative to achieve gender mainstreaming in the European Parliament, a kind of gender equality health programme if you like.
It will be ready in time for the 2003 International Women's Day.
I believe that we can set an example here to make it crystal clear that the European Parliament - even when enlargement is in the offing - is serious about equal opportunities for women and men.
Particularly when elections are on the horizon, it is not enough for the parties just to include equal opportunities in their manifestos; we also have to make sure it is implemented in practice.
We expect that here in the European Parliament, where 30% of the Members are women, which means that we are somewhat better than average, things will be even better after the elections, so that we will move significantly closer to the goal of equal representation of men and women in this House.
There are many other points appearing in both reports that I could comment on.
I believe that ultimately the crucial factor will be the political will that needs to be demonstrated if the position of women is really to be improved.
