Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like firstly to express warm thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Stenmarck.
He has managed to enshrine our desire for a WTO parliamentary assembly in the budget.
This is, I believe, a historic act.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy is deeply proud that this has been achieved, at least in this reading.
Secondly, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I should also like to thank Mr Färm very much for his understanding of the problems facing small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly in border regions, where I believe that this initiative will be very well received and to which it will offer huge benefits for the future, particularly with a view to enlargement.
I see a further problem.
The Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy adopted the sixth framework programme of research unanimously.
Since this was agreed with the Commission and the Council, however, a new problem has arisen.
On the one hand, we have a development on Basle II that poses a serious threat to the creditworthiness of small and medium-sized enterprises, and at the same time enlargement is imminent and the economy is currently in a very poor state.
Mr Walter has already said, quite rightly, that we need to strike a balance and that at present things are out of balance.
We are losing revenue.
So, what do we need to do to improve tax revenue?
We need to prevent even more companies from going bankrupt because bankruptcies threaten to cause a huge increase in unemployment.
This trend could be exacerbated if we do not prepare for the introduction of Basel II in good time.
I myself am an economist, but I believe that the sixth framework programme really does need a Basle II-related research priority - creditworthiness for small and medium-sized enterprises.
I would strongly urge Mr Färm to support us on this important matter, because we need new instruments so as to continue to guarantee the stability of Europe, and what we need is a stability pact for SMEs.
