Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there are issues relating to the current situation in Iraq which are uncontentious, which we all share and where we have a broad consensus.
The first is that Iraq must comply with all the UN Security Council's resolutions in full and without any ifs, buts or maybes.
I am very grateful to you, Commissioner, for saying that it is not only Iraq which should do so, but we are talking about Iraq here today.
Secondly, we all agree that the weapons inspectors must return to Iraq and that they must have unfettered access to be able to do their job properly.
In particular, they must search for, and then destroy, weapons of mass destruction and delivery systems.
I am most grateful to you, Commissioner, for making a further point on this consensus, and I am especially gratified that you did so by pointing out that the response to this situation, to the problem of Iraq, should be sought multilaterally and through the United Nations framework.
That is the opportunity for us genuinely to resolve this problem once and for all.
There are other issues where we do not have this consensus.
They include, for example, the question whether the weapons inspectors who now have a mandate to go to Iraq must wait until the Security Council adopts a new resolution.
I think that a definition of their mandate by the UN Secretary-General would suffice.
If it is indeed the case that a major threat emanates from Iraq, then it is logical, after all, to ensure that these inspectors go to Iraq as soon as possible.
At the same time, the UN Secretary-General must look at the issue of the embargo.
While the inspectors are searching for weapons in Iraq, conditions must be re-established for the embargo to be abolished entirely, and for the embargo to be ended.
I think this is axiomatic, but I would like to reiterate and underline this point here once again.
While the weapons inspectors are searching for weapons in Iraq, the bombing campaign by the US and the United Kingdom, which is not based on any UN resolution, cannot continue.
It should be suspended - I am phrasing this carefully - until we have the inspectors' report.
Finally, the UN should prepare a roadmap for the destruction of weapons and for the inspections, and a roadmap for the embargo and for Iraq's reintegration into the international community.
This would be an important step which could be initiated by the UN.
In the context of the UN, let me say that if we opt for the UN, we cannot have a UN à la carte.
In other words, we cannot comply with the resolutions which suit us and ignore the ones that do not!
We must be very clear about this, and I am in favour of our respecting and implementing all the UN resolutions accordingly.
