Mr President, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy has given rise to enormous debate in Europe's farms.
I welcome the fact that the Commission has presented this review on schedule, and I would specifically like to express my thanks for its forward-looking nature.
However, I would like to stress and reiterate what the Commissioner told us - we should view this paper as a basis for a debate, a debate which we are all called upon to participate in.
The Commission has proposed a broadly based approach to reform.
There is still a substantial need for clarification and debate in many areas.
The Brussels Summit on 24 and 25 October set the financial framework up to 2013.
We now need to establish in good time what shape the agricultural policy of the enlarged Community should take.
Mr Daul's motion for a resolution was voted on in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development after lengthy discussions between all the groups and many amendments.
I would like to thank Mr Daul for his outstanding work and for his willingness to compromise.
That is why I ask my fellow Members to vote for this motion for a resolution.
We do not need to go into all that much detail today.
I hope we will have sufficient opportunities to do that at a later stage.
However, there are a few important points I would like to touch upon briefly.
The idea of decoupling aids and cutting red tape sounds appealing.
However, I cannot imagine either working in practice.
We are talking about money for farming families and that means that there must be fair and measurable criteria for distribution.
It seems to me that basing the future of our agricultural policy on historical values, as the Commission is proposing, is not very forward-looking.
As regards rules, commitments and audits the Commission should be proposing a simple and efficient procedure for such audits.
The idea of burdening farms with new and unnecessary formalities and costs is not acceptable.
I hope that in December we will have an opportunity to discuss concrete proposals from the Commission on market organisations.
