Mr President, the control of state aids is one of the three pillars of competition policy.
Many of these aids concern industry, the energy sector, the transport sector or agriculture, which is why the Committee on Industry has issued an opinion on the Herzog report.
In this opinion, which was adopted by a large majority, we firstly welcomed the State Aid Scoreboard, which provides greater transparency and openness and gives a clearer overview of the situation.
Secondly, in conjunction with this, we adopted a series of demands in the Committee on Industry, which are addressed to the Commission.
Firstly, we welcome the objective of continuously reducing overall aid allocations.
Secondly, we say that future scoreboards should include subsidies in the accession countries.
Our third demand - and this is an old request - is for the thresholds applied to the 'de minimis' rule to be raised.
In the future we want the smaller cases to be exempted so that local decision-makers have more room for manoeuvre.
In addition, we want the special tax arrangements to be subjected to more intensive scrutiny and to be included in this Scoreboard.
Finally, in particular where services of general interest are concerned - other Members have already commented on this - we want the Commission to at last get round to doing its job, as it has been saying it will for so long.
We know that a Green Paper on the provision of services of general interest is currently being prepared.
We hope, Commissioner, that this Green Paper, which is of course being drafted primarily under the authority of the Commission President, will encompass all aspects of services of general interest.
We do not think that in general these services should be exempt from the competition rules, as has just been said, but that where the picture is unclear, clarity can be achieved.
Our final point in the Committee on Industry is a long-standing demand on the part of Parliament.
It concerns the regulations on which you have just reported, Commissioner, and which will entail an update of Regulation No 17.
We want these regulations - including the forthcoming rules on services of general interest - to be classified as internal market legislation and to be subject to the codecision procedure.
I know that this is not in your interests, but it is in ours.
Nevertheless, we hope for your understanding on at least some of these points.
