Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first may I thank you, Mr Pérez Álvarez, for your report on our proposal on the conclusion of a new fisheries protocol with Senegal.
I am delighted that you support this proposal.
It will enable our fishermen to continue fishing in Senegal until 30 June 2006.
I think this protocol is of huge interest to both parties.
Senegal will receive a financial contribution of EUR 16 million and we shall be helping Senegal to build up sustainable fisheries.
In addition, more Senegalese fishermen and observers will be deployed on board our vessels, although fishing opportunities for our vessels have been cut back, in line with data from Senegalese scientists.
The fishing zones for Community ships have been reduced and coastal zones have been reserved for the local artisanal fleet.
Finally, we have increased compulsory landings for the Senegalese fishing industry in the new protocol.
The agreement offers our fleet stability, because the new protocol will run for four years, and flexibility, thanks to the new system for calculating fishing opportunities.
In turn, this will foster higher utilisation rates and hence a better cost-benefit ratio.
The Senegalese authorities have confirmed that our fisheries will not endanger stocks because, even during the period from 1997 to 2001, Community catches only accounted for between 1.7% to 3.3% of total catches in Senegal.
By comparison, our vessels accounted for 25% of landings for the local industry in 1997.
Now to the proposed amendments.
I agree with the content of Amendments Nos 1, 3 and 4 but in form they are, I think, superfluous.
The Commission already passes on the information called for.
We are required to do so under the interinstitutional agreements, especially the framework agreement between the Commission and Parliament.
I cannot accept Amendment No 5, because this is a protocol to a fisheries agreement.
As an addendum to a framework agreement, no new mandate is required in order to renew a protocol.
I must also reject Amendment No 2 for this fisheries protocol.
However, I promise to propose this sort of clause during negotiations on future fisheries agreements with third countries.
