Mr President, I would first like to thank Mr Pronk for pointing out that Article 202 is by no means a legislative soft option, and it does not make life easy for the Council or the Commission.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for her clear statement about the arrangements for the tripartite social summit, and to thank the Danish Presidency for attempting to accommodate us.
What I do not understand as the nominated rapporteur, however, is that at a moment when we are anxious to tackle employment policy and growth in an active way, we are wasting time.
The intention was to begin making arrangements for this standing tripartite social summit now, before the spring summit, so that the social partners could start work straight away.
The approach we have now adopted means that we are wasting time again, possibly a whole year, at a point when we want to play an active role on employment issues.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs has virtually been neutralised - we do not have an appropriate mechanism here.
This means that the social dialogue will not be particularly mobilised as a fundamental mechanism for the social partners to be able to - or in fact be obliged to - achieve something practice-related.
At a point when the term 'social dimension' and thus all the mechanism that involves - notably the social dialogue - are constantly on everyone's lips, and when we are talking about deepening social issues in Europe, we are wasting time.
I just cannot understand that.
One more point: today we stand on the threshold of the enlargement of the European Union.
I have discussed these issues with many partner states and they all want a properly functioning mechanism in this field, and one that would help all the new Member States.
However, I do not believe that it will be easier, if the mechanism does not become operational under the Greek Presidency, to sort matters out later on, once the new Member States have joined us.
Things can only get more difficult then, because the existing social partnerships, industrial relations that is, are not so robust.
That is the problem we face.
I do not need to use all my speaking time; I have already expressed my indignation about the fact that Article 202 is constantly referred to as a soft option.
Parliament's Legal Service will give us its opinion on this next week, and I hope that will help us somewhat.
I would like to thank the Danish Presidency and Commissioner Diamantopoulou once again for their support.
I hope that 3 December will be a productive day in this area.
