Mr President, I would like to thank those of the Commissioners who, out of respect for Parliament and the debate on the work programme, have been able to spend a couple of hours with us - once a year.
I admire Mrs de Palacio for answering questions across all areas of policy, including those of her colleagues who have other priorities.
What I have said amounts to praise for those of her colleagues who are actually here.
Mrs de Palacio, Commissioners, I have read the work programme very carefully.
It is better than what you have usually come up with.
In my areas of interest at least, it is more helpful.
You have integrated the concept of sustainability throughout, as we have always requested.
I really get the impression that you have done your homework, that you have understood the issues and that the external presentation at least has been very well done.
'External presentation' and 'internal behaviour' are, however, two very different things.
My queries relate in particular to internal behaviour.
Let us consider the leftovers, that is to say the things you are carrying forward from 2002.
In my field, which is environmental policy, there are some areas that Mrs Schörling and Mrs Frassoni and others have touched upon, such as policy on chemical products, PVC, the batteries directive, and various others.
If I consider why that is, I see that one of the main problem areas is that you cannot achieve any internal agreement.
You have conflicts between environmental, industrial and trade policy, and there is also often conflict between consumer protection and trade policy.
If you cannot resolve these internal conflicts, if you cannot manage to demonstrate leadership and say 'OK, the Commissioner responsible has power over the inter-service procedure', then we will always find ourselves with 'leftovers'.
That is why I am asking you, Mrs de Palacio, how you intend to resolve conflicts within the Commission in future, and whether you are willing to air these conflicts in a more open and transparent way.
We can only ever guess the reasons why no proposals are presented to us.
We learn them already from the grapevine and the rumour mill.
We mostly seek answers in Commissioner Liikanen's areas of responsibility, sometimes, often enough in fact, we seek them in Commissioner Lamy's areas, and sometimes in Commissioner Bolkestein's areas too.
I regard them as being the naughty boys.
I am not referring to poor Commissioner Wallström and Commissioner Byrne, who always do their best but are sometimes pushed to one side.
I expect your internal behaviour to reflect the way you present things externally.
That means that you will also present the proposals that you have presented to us very quickly in future.
