Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my thanks to Mrs Jackson for tabling such an important question and to Mrs Wallström for her honest answer.
It is, though, a pity that, realistically speaking, no serious political progress is expected in New Delhi because people are in fact hoping for something else.
After the dreadful floods in Germany and neighbouring countries, people expected the climate problem to be resolved once and for all in Johannesburg, only to be told that it had a different agenda.
The same appears to be true of New Delhi, but we must continue to be tough negotiators, even if we cannot always make rapid progress.
We must also remember that Kyoto is, of course, just the first step, which is why we reiterate quite clearly in our resolution that all citizens must end up with the same rights, which basically means that per capita emissions should be the same the world over.
For the developing countries, this implies a great deal more than we promised in Kyoto.
In view of the recent debate on emissions trading in Germany, we have to keep reminding ourselves that all the parties in Germany are in fact agreed that we need to reduce emissions in the long term by 80% - I repeat 80% by 2050 - and if we are already arguing so energetically against it now, when first steps need to be taken, then I do not hold out much hope for this long-term objective.
Nonetheless, we must stand by it and our resolution reaffirms this.
Ratification by Russia, Japan and the USA is still very, very important.
As we have been told on numerous occasions, all we can do is keep on making demands and ensuring that every meeting, at whatever level, between representatives of the European Union, be it the Commission or the Council of Ministers or us here in the European Parliament, between the EU and the USA, between the EU and Russia, addresses this issue.
It must be our top priority in our dealings with these countries.
We must not relax in our efforts and I expressly endorse what Mr Moreira Da Silva said about the WTO.
We must get the WTO to agree to allow us to keep certain products off the European market if they have been manufactured using processes that cause additional climate change.
The credibility of the European Union is, of course, vital.
We have to clean up our own act.
Parliament has, by a very large majority, taken a clear stand on emissions trading.
I am sorry that the Council of Ministers has postponed its decision yet again and I am sorry to hear from initial reactions that important amendments which we adopted, for example on the CAP or on 1990 as the base year, may not meet with the Council's approval.
The Council needs to adopt a clear concept, and quickly, and we, the European Parliament, need to be tough negotiators.
That is all I have to say.
Three minutes is too short a time to expand on the whole issue but I think it really is important for us to keep clarifying our position here in this House.
