Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my agreement with Mr Titley and also say that it also strikes me that the spirit of European integration is standing at a door on which there hangs a 'No Entry' sign, as it is not wanted in negotiations that are confined to milk quotas and direct grants.
In the European Union, solidarity stops when it comes to money.
The Danish Presidency may well have tried, by means of its negotiating package, to do justice to all positions, but, as the spirit of integration was shown the door, all that has come out is a worthless patchwork of rags that is no kind of framework for a future together.
Why is this?
The Member States' mean-minded attitude leaves the candidate countries with the impression that they are second-class citizens who are not welcome.
That puts wind in the sails of the EU's opponents in those countries, and jeopardises its acceptance.
Savings in the Structural Funds mean savings in cohesion, in the very heart of the European Union, and thus have adverse effects on the project of integration.
Hence the impossibility of significant impetus for rural development or an attempt at it, the most devastating indication of which is the fact that it will lose out when grants of aid are increased.
This is an attempt at making manifest the structures of an agricultural policy that has failed in the European Union, and, in practical terms, an indirect rejection of agricultural reform, meaning that the demise of farms in the candidate countries is being pre-planned without there being any alternative jobs.
That is sending the wrong signal.
We, the Group of the Greens, reject all attempts at downgrading enlargement into a national savings bank, and hereby demand that the Council and the Commission should give absolute priority to the project of support for rural areas in the candidate countries and allocate more funds to it.
Without that, the result will be social collapse, the European Union's spirit will be endangered and so will the project for EU reform!
