Mr President, Madam Vice-President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Haarder, I am glad that you are here and that we are engaged in discussion, but I must go straight to the heart of all these debates.
I was delighted to read the resolutions from the Transport Ministers' Council of 5 and 6 December on increased safety at sea, but - alas - I have no faith in them.
Let me give you two examples.
Up until now, the Council has always done its utmost to defend the use of single-hulled tankers up to 2015, and suddenly the Transport Ministers in Council announce an immediate end to the use of single-hulled tankers for the transport of heavy oil.
In addition, there is this wonderful question, Mr President-in-Office: by virtue of which law is this to come about?
We cannot make it Community law within the next couple of weeks.
Can you quote me any national regulations that will put the Member States in any sort of position to implement the ban on single-hulled tankers?
My second point, Mr President-in-Office, is that Mr Piecyk and others have already referred to the fact that a number of Member States are failing to meet the obligation imposed on them by the port state directive of controlling 25% of the vessels calling at EU ports.
Now, acting through the Council of Transport Ministers, the Council has decided to increase its efforts to step up monitoring of controls, if at all possible by 1 January.
Can you, in your capacity as President-in-Office, confirm how many posts have been newly created for inspectors, and in which countries, in the course of the last week or the last ten days, and how many qualified applicants there are for these positions as inspectors?
You see, Mr President-in-Office, passing fine resolutions is no use at all.
What we want you to tell us is how they are to be implemented.
I would like to refer back to Mr Sterckx, who wrote the report on ports of refuge.
He is perfectly right, and here too, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the same questions arise.
You have now said that the Member States should set up ports of refuge and register them more quickly, but I would like you to tell us how you propose to ensure that, once the individual states have designated the ports of refuge, they are actually set up.
Let us remember that the Erika wanted to call at a port and was not allowed to, and the question is similar when it comes to the Prestige: if she had called at a port, might she not have avoided breaking up, might it not have been possible to pump out the crude oil more easily and to avoid a disaster of such a magnitude?
Mr President-in-Office, how do you intend to make sure that the Member States do actually set up these ports of refuge so as to avoid greater calamities?
