Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a government that has presided over the execution of over 250 people since January 2002, including 27 since 30 September alone - the day on which negotiations were held between the EU and Iran; one which, secondly, includes a woman such as the advisor to President Khatami, a woman who has said that stoning is a legitimate and defensible method of protecting family values; thirdly, one that sentences human rights activists such as Nasser Zarafshan to years in prison - such a government deserves the label 'inhumane regime' and must be condemned in the strongest terms.
I do of course endorse the material need for dialogue between the European Union and Iran.
However, I simply cannot understand why negotiations on a cooperation and trade agreement between the European Union and Iran should begin on 29 October.
Parliament has called on numerous occasions for cooperation agreements or financial aid to be suspended or frozen when human rights are being violated.
So why are we applying this double standard?
The Council decided on 22 October, just two days ago, not to table a human rights resolution on Iran at the next sitting of the UN Commission on Human Rights.
I find that totally unacceptable.
I cannot but wonder if the reason for not wanting to expose the Iranian Government now is that it does not square with the policy on Iraq?
We in the Confederal Group of the United European Left/Nordic Green Left support the joint motion, although it does represent a shift from the real resolution on human rights to a composite resolution on human rights plus cooperation between the European Union and Iraq, but we think that parts of items 4 and 5 are wrong for the reasons I have mentioned and we have therefore applied for a split vote.
I really would be delighted if the hope reflected by this common motion were to be fulfilled, by which I mean if an end to human rights violations in Iran were to give us cause for optimism.
However, present circumstances alone give me no cause whatsoever for any such belief, which is why we must raise our voices, at any rate here in Parliament.
