Madam President, the Lisbon strategy is due for re-evaluation at the special summit next spring.
This is not just about evaluating whether the objectives have been implemented; measures will also need to be corrected and new elements introduced.
For example, the Council has decided to add a third dimension to the economic and employment policy dimensions: the ecological dimension, as a number of my honourable friends have already mentioned.
I totally fail to understand why the Commission refuses to include ecological objectives.
We have discussed the possibility of a new edition of the Stability Pact in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
My group, the PPE-DE, is against watering it down because that would undermine the stability of the euro and make people anxious.
I think that greater involvement of the social partners in a tripartite social summit and a strengthened macroeconomic dialogue are noteworthy ideas.
I think there are three important points in Othmar Karas's excellent report.
First, we need better coordination of economic policy, employment policy and social integration.
The annual guidelines are the main tool for coordinating employment policy.
It is a shame that numerous Member States agree on the objectives but then fail to put them into practice.
Secondly, Parliament needs to be comprehensively involved in preparations for the spring summit.
That means having enough time in the run up to the summit to examine the Commission's proposal.
We really must be allowed enough time.
We expect the Convention to further strengthen our position as representatives of the people and the EU Treaty is to be amended to give us more codecision rights at all stages of the coordination process.
Thirdly, on the future EU Member States: we need to integrate candidate countries at the very earliest opportunity if we want to achieve our ambitious aim of transforming the European Union into the most competitive, dynamic, knowledge-based economy in the world within eight years.
We call on the Commission to ensure the relevant departments in these countries are involved in a technically - and more important - logistically efficient manner.
