Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after so much criticism, I should like to offer Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf my warmest thanks for his oral question to the Commission.
It is not just on the mind of my group, it is, of course, also on Mrs Sommer's mind.
As she said, we worked together with an overwhelming majority in the Committee on the Environment on this issue, precisely because we have the impression that our right of codetermination is being curtailed, whatever the legal situation here; I think we all know that, Mrs Sommer.
We have asked the Commission and various representatives working on this directive for a deferment on several occasions, because the message we keep getting is that the idea is to railroad these legal provisions through before the end of the year.
The legislation in this area, which is currently being dealt with by the Council but which was dealt with by Parliament at first reading up to July, signals that we are taking this seriously.
I shall resist the temptation to rehash the debate we held up to July, but I should like to comment on one point which is, of course, also addressed in the legislation and which, as rapporteur, I am familiar with, namely the regulation on genetically modified food and feedingstuffs.
What we want to know is: what is being done to prevent technically unavoidable, unwanted contamination?
What proposals does the Commission have for investigating this question?
Word is spreading that we are in fact regulating something at European level.
We are regulating limit values, threshold values for technically unavoidable, adventitious contamination.
We all agree here that we need these limit values and that there is no such thing as completely 'GM-free'.
At the same time, we are not saying that there are laws in the pipeline, there are recommendations in the pipeline tackling how this can be avoided in future.
If the objective - and here too we agree with the Commission - is to deny this contamination and if the objective is the coexistence of various types of farming, such as traditional and organic farming, then this is a question we really should be asking ourselves.
If the Commissioner says that there are no clear-cut replies to these questions, which is perfectly understandable, then I understand even less why this is now being railroaded through here under the comitology procedure.
