Madam President, Commissioner, there are two areas that give us cause for concern.
The health of consumers is, of course, one of them, but there is also the position of producers here if we are not able to ensure that what may not be used here, may not be used outside the EU either.
The question is, who produces these substances and how can they get into the European Union?
You have now said there are intensive controls, but - if I understood that correctly - foreign missions are unnecessary because we find bad conditions there anyway.
So we do not need to go there.
I have heard that today's meeting of the Standing Committee was to have discussed removing Thailand again from the list of countries that must be subject to special inspections.
On what basis was that decision to be taken?
I have also heard that you have announced inspection missions to those countries for next year.
What reason do you now have to assume that those missions will be worthwhile?
I think that, if these countries do not meet our requirements, they should be put on the list, and then they cannot supply us until they can guarantee that the products they supply to the European Union meet our standards.
There is another problem that needs to be clarified.
What happens to the shrimps, poultry meat and turkey that is imported into the Union and does not meet our requirements?
Is it sent back?
What is done with it?
As we have been saying about food waste for a long time, a ban is not enough.
We saw that with the shrimps from China, which somewhere found their way into animal feed and by that route got into the food chain again.
What I would therefore like is for you to put forward a clear plan that we, who have to justify ourselves as parliamentarians - including to the Commission - can stand by and say that the Commission, the European Union, is being strict enough here.
We cannot have it perceived to be true that you say the Commission enters into trade relations with some countries and is less strict with them, even though doubts have arisen about that recently.
I hope you will be able to clear this up in your reply.
