Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy, I see a need for discussion of four areas that are of great importance to us.
The first is external trade.
The next round of WTO talks is imminent.
I believe that the trend towards moving from the promotion of products to the promotion of quality is one that is especially important and will be of very great significance for Europe.
Secondly, the WTO is in urgent need of a parliamentary assembly to accompany it.
We can observe how pressure on the part of NGOs is constantly increasing, and how a political debate on globalisation issues is becoming ever more important.
Thirdly, we in this House must ourselves step up our efforts in order to meet the challenges involved in preparing the WTO to face the future.
At the end of the day, this issue will decisively affect some 20% of jobs in the European Union.
On the subject of industry, I want to record the fact that support for border regions has been very successful, especially that given to small and medium-sized enterprises.
The B5-510 budget line would also be very well suited to increasing the budget for the 'Arge 28' working community of chambers of commerce.
I think it very sensible that discussions have touched on this.
A further factor is that consideration is given, in the fourth multiannual programme, to the various modes of financing Basle II.
I believe these programmes to be of great importance for the future.
In particular, we want to start up a preparatory operation for next year, in order to give particular help in this area to small and medium-sized enterprises in meeting the requirements of Basle II.
Turning to research and development, the earmarking for SMEs is especially laudable, and I believe that the EUR 3 billion to be spent in the coming year can also give an impetus to improved economic development.
My fourth and final point has to do with intelligent energy.
Here too, I believe, we have taken a step in the right direction as regards the supply, safety and efficiency of energy, with especial consideration for small and medium-sized enterprises.
