Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nowadays, an outbreak of foot and mouth disease even in one small part of one Member State has very rapid and grave effects on the Community as a whole.
The loss of considerable numbers of animals as a result of the slaughter of whole herds and the profound disquiet and insecurity felt in society as a whole in the countries affected and also throughout the other parts of Europe, meant great financial loss in the affected areas, not only for farming, but also for the economy as a whole and tourism in particular.
The control of disease can today be understood no longer as merely a means of preserving the stock of farm animals or of defending specific commercial interests, but must also take into account the population's changed lifestyle, their mobility, and their changed attitudes towards the environment and the protection of animals.
With these things in mind, the Temporary Committee on Foot and Mouth Disease engaged intensively with the whole range of problems associated with epidemics, including their effect on the public and the economy.
Whilst we do not need to reinvent the wheel, there is much that we can do better when it comes to limiting risks and minimising damage to the economy, while at the same time taking account of the welfare of animals and the sentiments of the public.
This is not just about a few cows and sheep.
We are all affected; this is relevant to all of us, and it helps not a bit to make sweeping assertions about who is guilty and who is not.
I would also like to unambiguously refute the accusations - and there have been some - levelled at farmers, be it in Great Britain or any other country.
What is important is that all imports should be controlled, that plans for emergencies should be kept up to date, and that the Commission should actively involve itself in them without delay.
Mass slaughter cannot be a solution, and I wish to put the case for emergency vaccination as being the very least we can do, and, apparently, the best means of getting a speedy grip on the disease and sparing the animals' lives.
We all know that meat from vaccinated animals is completely safe and therefore capable of being marketed.
I would like to express my gratitude to our rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler.
I would like to thank Mrs Redondo Jiménez, who chaired our committee, and also the Commission, and those of its members who were of assistance to us.
I trust that you will all now go and enjoy a nice juicy steak!
