Mr President, Mrs Zorba, Commissioner, on the contrary, theatre is not dead.
It has been pronounced dead at regular intervals ever since it came into being.
It lives!
Deserving protection as the biotope of every democratic society, the theatre lives not only thanks to the antics of its exponents, but also thanks to public interest and childlike curiosity, and thanks to national policies.
We all know that this responsibility is borne by the Fifteen, soon to be twenty-five and more.
Like Mr Beazley and others who have spoken before me, I wonder whether everyone is truly aware of the enormous political and delicate task that we have been set to do.
The business world has galloped on ahead, but the EU's citizens are still tottering along behind integration.
Europe must help where it can.
Let me first thank you, Geneviève Fraisse, for your initiative, and for this wonderful report.
If, within the internal market framework, we enact laws relating to culture, we must also make full use of every instrument at our disposal in the service of the many kinds of theatre - whether houses rich in tradition, buildings commandeered for alternative uses, streets between Lisbon and Helsinki, Athens and London - to protect this diversity, helping it to develop further and come to full bloom.
This will call for a shared effort on the part of all of us.
It is primarily to the Member States that I appeal.
We have to do away with fiscal discrimination as part of European mobility policy and as an essential contribution to integration.
We have to exploit to the utmost all the options that the framework of the sixth VAT directive offers us and win over the media, for they - especially the public broadcasting institutions - are our partners.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your observations.
Take this report as a mandate and as a support.
Do not let it gather dust in a drawer; it is too valuable to be eaten away by moths.
No holes in the Budget are stopped if we cut back on art and culture; we are just the poorer thereby.
