Mr President, Mr Prodi, if the implementation of a policy to limit the new debts entered into by states adds up in practice to inflation-cutting measures combined with a simultaneous increase in economic growth, then there is nothing to be said against it.
Here lies the crux of the situation we are in today.
The best option for generating growth is to encourage demand by means of investments by governments, investments by enterprises and by private consumption.
If, despite the European internal market, nation states continue to assume that they must gain for themselves advantageous positions within the European Union - and that is possible in the absence of an adequate harmonisation of economic, fiscal and social policy - then, quite simply, the fundamental conditions for sustainable growth in Europe are not there.
Increased domestic demand will not be achieved by reducing wages, which diminishes purchasing power, or by increasing the tax burden on small businesses, which create more jobs and apprenticeships than anyone else, and it will not be brought about by taking so much of the tax burden off big businesses that they no longer pay anything at all.
Cutting investment rates during a slowdown, even though there is no inflation of any significance, has a procyclic effect and makes no economic sense.
There are marked differences between the budgets of the Member States.
The fact that shadow budgets are the order of the day means that there is, even within the European Union, no comparable basis for the calculation and management of budgets.
If this leads us to talk in terms of altering the Stability and Growth Pact, this must not be done because of the present complex economic situation, for that would be political opportunism; instead, discussion must be a consequence of the construct being fundamentally dysfunctional.
Any reform of the Stability and Growth Pact must go hand in hand with greater coordination of European policies on the economy, social affairs, employment, tax and the environment, if there is to be any real upturn in investment.
