Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that this report, for which I would like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely, is a refinement of the Musotto report that we adopted at the beginning of the year.
To be more precise, this report is about the direction Parliament wishes to go in.
I am quite willing to admit that we have not totally achieved that, because there is still too much in this report, but I still think that it is a good one.
All in all, I do not think the picture is as black as the rapporteur has painted it.
In this report we have once again emphasised certain points that have already been identified, such as our rejection of any renationalisation of structural policy.
We have also once again made it clear that regions currently benefiting from support will have to accept cuts; we do not want to pull the wool over anyone's eyes about this.
However, we have also managed to clarify some points in this report.
I disagree totally with the previous speaker on this, because I think it is very important for the Commission to make proposals at this stage about how it will move forward with Objective 2.
People are waiting for a signal in Objective 2 regions too, and we cannot just concentrate on Objective 1 in our discussions.
The same applies to Community initiatives.
This is also an important area where we need to either clarify matters or at least identify a recognisable direction.
How will the Community Action for Border Regions be continued?
And how will action on cities move forward?
And rural areas?
I would like to stress two more points of great concern to me.
One is that the programme must be scheduled to start so that funds are actually available on 1 January 2007, and, equally important, we need a more coherent approach, and in that regard we need to send a signal to the Commission that it should at long last achieve greater coherence between individual policy areas.
My final point is this: I believe, and my group has also taken a decision to this effect, that for Objective 1 we should neither establish a fixed criterion nor a fixed percentage.
We need to make a decision on the basis of concrete proposals, and the Commission is in the process of drawing something up.
