Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, climate policy is a process that will inform everything we do in the twenty-first century and I trust that Europe will continue to play a leading role here.
I have something to say to the members of the parliaments.
We have more and more global processes, not just now with Kyoto, but on other issues - I am thinking of the International Monetary Fund, financial policy, worldwide credit policy, environmental policy and trade policy - which are in fact decided solely by the executive.
The parliaments rubberstamp them, they have no choice.
The question is: surely, with increasing globalisation, parliaments could be more involved in the opinion-forming process?
This question is directed both to us and to our parliaments.
We need to find new ways of working together instead of just taking recourse to the executive - in this case the Commission.
Secondly, Kyoto must be ratified and that will be our main job in New Delhi.
We must convince our counterparts, especially our Russian counterparts, that this makes sense.
Thirdly, when we talk of reducing CO2 - and other greenhouse gas emissions, but mainly CO2 - we always mention renewable energy in the same breath.
And so we should.
I have no wish to contradict that.
It is just that, in New Delhi, we will be in a country that generates well over 50% of its electricity from coal.
If they could bring their coal technology up to current European standards, we would save much, much more CO2 throughout the world than with all the other very costly reduction measures put together.
This is a fact and we must face it.
In other words, if we want a climate policy, we need an active coal policy and we should mention that in the same breath as renewable energy, because 80% of the world's energy is still generated from fossil fuels.
Finally, I think that climate policy also gives us a chance to foster a new relationship with developing countries, in the form of emissions trading.
The Commission itself conducted a very interesting study in its institute in Seville, with a time frame of up to 2030, when, it states, emissions trading with Asia will be worth around EUR 80 billion.
That implies a capital inflow of around EUR 80 billion for these countries.
Know-how will be transmitted to these countries and the advantage to us is that the reduction in emissions will be entered against our account, meaning that both sides will benefit from the trade off.
We should be thinking more along these lines.
