Mr President, I wish to appeal to the Heads of Government and Foreign Ministers who are congregating in Brussels: that appeal is that they take seriously their responsibility in respect of enlargement.
It is not possible to make everything dependent on everything else, nor is it possible to force through an agricultural reform with enlargement in the offing.
Time must be found for that later on.
It is not possible to be willing to pay more for enlargement and, at one and the same time, to compel others to pay less.
I think it must be clear that the costs of enlargement, within the bounds of reasonable perspectives, should rather be planned to be below the level of Agenda 2000 as set out in Berlin.
We should be looking seriously at proper finance for agriculture, making it possible for there to be stable conditions for farmers by 2006, but we should also be clear in our own minds that not everything has a final solution.
There will be no pre-enlargement agricultural reform without postponing enlargement for ever and a day, and nor can we prejudice future, post-2006, Budget frameworks.
It is with this in mind that I can say that we in the Austrian People's Party, and I as a representative of it, take the line of 100% support for enlargement.
I know that your team in Brussels is empowered to act properly in the interests of the European Community and of Austria.
We hope, of course, that there will be sensitivity for our concerns about transit and support for border regions, but we are all aware that enlargement is a great chance - a chance that must be made use of.
This must be guaranteed in a policy and a procedure that means that the candidates for accession are not forced into a 'do or die' situation, about which we have heard so much.
So I ask you this: how do you intend to go about finding a method whereby, on the one hand, the Brussels Conference is prevented from degenerating into a secretive conclave and, on the other, there is enough space left for negotiations with the candidates for enlargement?
