Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by making a point of thanking Mr Beysen.
It is unlike me to start a speech by congratulating the rapporteur, because I think that is what we are here for and we generally make a good job of it.
I think, however, that Mr Beysen deserves special praise for his hard work in contacting the other groups right from the start, in order to ensure the report was as unanimous as possible before it was tabled in plenary.
And he has succeeded admirably.
So thank you for involving us from the outset.
As a result, my group feels there is no need to table any amendments because, in my opinion, what Mr Beysen has done is fine as it is.
I would therefore like to just comment briefly on three political points that are important to me.
First, as the Commissioner made clear, this decision comes under the general heading of the liberalisation of the energy market; in other words, it contributes to what is already on the Council's agenda.
And when it comes to the overall package to open up the energy market, let there be no mistake, we have handed our homework in on time.
We adopted our first reading here in plenary on 13 March, after the Council urged us to get a move on.
The Commission did likewise; it too has done its homework, unlike the Council.
The Council is doing what it always does, what it does best - nothing at all.
It sits and talks and fails to come to any decision.
That amounts to institutionalised indecisiveness, and that is why we need to say at this juncture: this is an overall package and we want results so that we can move forward.
Secondly, I really do think the Commission was right in this context to suggest - and our resolution should reflect this - that strategically important projects in the trans-European energy network sector should be given top priority.
By which we mean projects which are vital for security of supply, strategically important projects which are important in opening up the market, especially those relating to one part of this package I referred to, namely the regulation on which Mr Mombaur acted as rapporteur.
It is a pity he is not here today; I think he too would have had a few comments to make here.
Thirdly, unlike traffic networks, the industry and companies involved in the energy networks generally make real money.
They make money!
And that means that it is primarily up to the industry to finance these projects.
It is our job as legislator to support this by putting framework conditions in place, which brings me back to the fact that the Council needs to wrap things up.
So that is how we want to go about this, by cofinancing support but with the companies in the front row when it comes to putting money in the kitty.
