Mr President, it is indeed a fine thing to read out allegories and then say that the report is too complicated, moreover referring, as Mr Rack did, to the fact that one has seen the amendments.
Of course, details are deceptive - as you, being an outstanding representative of the legal profession, will be well aware.
It was in precisely such a decisive situation as this in which we found ourselves.
Let us move more towards clarity, or towards what one might term the absence of intellectual doubt.
Absurd though it might sound, I was wholeheartedly on Mrs Theato's side, and said that it really should be worked out with absolute clarity and utterly unambiguously, and that the third variant was to be left open.
But that, Mr Rack, would have meant that the amendments would have been far more extensive, far more complex and much harder to understand.
Hearing what we have heard from the Netherlands, and other positions, makes it possible, however, to live with a fellow-countryman saying that sort of thing.
Please allow me to enlarge on two points, those made by Mrs Theato and by Commissioner Schreyer.
Both refer to legal bases and to the Legal Service, both of which are sources of doubt.
Of course we had to give ourselves safeguards on that, in order to have any chance of reaching a compromise, as we eventually did when we negotiated one with Mr Bourlanges and the Liberals' Mr Duff.
One legal opinion is now being pitted against another, and that is something we will have to live with.
I do think though that, as a whole, what we have worked out reflects this House's thinking, and it goes without saying, Mrs Theato, that I respect your attitude.
I only hope there will not be too many who think as you do, as otherwise we will be back to the beginning.
Those who want everything sorted out in the Convention will perhaps be happy with that.
There is no more simple way, though, for us to put this together.
We have to make a political statement - that is our task as MEPs, but the Rules of Procedure are not designed for that purpose.
With that in mind, then, thank you again for your cooperation and support.
