Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union's core concerns include the safeguarding of freedom of information and the freedom and diversity of opinion.
These are among our fundamental values, to which, it is to be hoped, the Convention will give a prominent place in the constitution that will be our common possession.
That being so, Parliament has, over past years, repeatedly done in-depth work on these issues and taken actual developments in the European Union and the Member States as a yardstick when measuring the extent to which these things have become reality.
I do not think one can say that Parliament has been asleep.
It is not only 1997 that should be mentioned here; I would like to remind you all of what we decided together in 2000 with our position on the fundamental questions relating to the communication and information society in the European Union, and would also refer you to our common position on the revision of the television directive in 2001.
That was something on which we did not yield.
The only thing is that we have to take a realistic view of how things stand.
So far, the results are clear and unambiguous: we have no option but to draw distinctions.
The media markets continue largely to be the national markets that they were previously, as is unmistakeably clear in the case of the print media.
Secondly, it is the case that in the electronic media field, the television markets are still predominantly national in character.
It must, thirdly, be clear to us that development has progressed further.
Cross-border developments are increasingly taking place in the electronic media, especially where digital technology is brought into play.
This is a question on which we have to focus, examining very carefully what consequences this development is having for the safeguarding of freedom of opinion and information and pluralism of the media in the European Union and in its Member States.
That is why my group, that of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has put to you a question with reference to this specific development.
We are asking the Commission to draw up a Green Paper on the current situation to take up the question of the structural developments observable today in Europe's political, economic and legal media.
We additionally ask you to table a proposal for our consideration on what you consider to be appropriate action in order to achieve the objective, which it is to be hoped is shared by us all, of safeguarding the pluralism of the media and of opinion in the European Union.
I do think that, if we travel together in this direction, we will together take a significant step along the road towards guaranteeing diversity of opinion in the European Union.
