Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want just to deal briefly with a number of the questions that have been raised, starting, of course, with the management of the budget.
I would like to mention here that we have again come to a very good arrangement in this budget procedure on the very issue of pilot projects and preparatory measures, namely that a vote can be held beforehand on approaches to implementation, so that what the budgetary authority has decided in the budget procedure is also speedily implemented by the Commission.
Mrs Buitenweg asked about the complement of posts for the environmental area, with reference to, among other things, the tasks that enlargement makes necessary, as environmental legislation must - quite rightly - also be implemented from day one, unless transitional arrangements are in place, but transitional arrangements, too, have to be observed.
After you have finished voting on the 2003 Budget on Thursday, the enlargement DG will be given an additional 18 posts for preparation for enlargement, and more when the budget is implemented, with the result that, in the course of 2003, the environment DG will have 33 additional posts at its disposal.
I would like to pick up on what Mr Walter said in his intervention with reference to the adjustment of the Financial Perspective in the course of enlargement.
I really can unreservedly assure you, Mr Walter, that the Commission has been quite specific in emphasising that the adjustment of the Financial Perspective is not something that has been, so to speak, decided in advance; rather, it is to be decided jointly by Parliament and the Council on the basis of the Commission's proposal.
I take the same view as you here: the maximum amounts were decided on in Copenhagen, but decisions on what we might call precise adjustments will have to be a joint effort.
I would be very glad if we could succeed in laying down the timetable in the way the Greek Presidency is contemplating, so that we can indeed have the essential discussions on these matters as part of the first trialogue.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, who is no longer in the Chamber, raised the subject of Parliament's decisions on expenditure in the area of agricultural policy.
The Commission entirely shares the view that, in future, this distinction between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure should be removed and the consequent differences in Parliament's rights eliminated, so that the European Parliament becomes fully competent in budget matters.
It is my belief that this particular budget procedure has again shown that the European Budget cannot but stand to gain by this.
