Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have already heard several times, one of the most important items on the agenda of the COP 8 conference in New Delhi in India is to agree on when the Kyoto Protocol will finally enter into force, with the emphasis on ratification by Russia.
I should like to reiterate what Mrs Annelie Hulthén said, namely that we must make sure that future Member States of the European Union understand that this is one of our priorities.
Another important issue -- and at this time and at this conference, which should not be taking place anyway, this probably has less to do with specific negotiations and more to do with thinking up a strategy and enumerating its features - is how we can convince numerous developing countries to join the fight against climate change in the future.
This will of course depend on our own credibility when it comes to climate change.
In other words, Europe and the European Union must deliver satisfactory results here.
Our success or failure in achieving this credibility with our partners in the developing countries - for whom I realise, Commissioner, this will not be easy - will not depend solely on our environmental policy; it will also depend on whether we have coherent policies in other sectors, such as European agriculture.
One point, which has not yet been raised today but which I consider very important, is the question of monitoring.
I think that, if we want the Kyoto Protocol to be a success and deliver demonstrable results, then we need a reasonable, reliable monitoring system.
In other words, we must ensure that the Member States deliver reliable figures on their emissions and on the flexible mechanisms.
We also need reliable data on what Europe sees as the very negative question of planting, in other words reforestation and similar activities.
My final point, which numerous members have raised, is of course the question of what happens after 2012, at the end of the first period, and it seems to me that we can make good use of COP 8 if we avoid getting embroiled in finer points and negotiations in order to table this problem and start thinking now about what must and will happen in 2012.
