Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I do not understand what all the fuss is about.
We have been arguing about Turkey since yesterday.
Whilst I have a very high regard for Mrs Sommer, it is she in particular who makes it impossible for me to understand at all why, when we are talking about enlargement, we are suddenly arguing about a question of principle, namely whether Turkey belongs in the European Union or not.
We will very soon have an opportunity to deal with this question objectively when we talk about the Oostlander report.
It is now a member of your group who is the rapporteur; he is a well-known politician and at any rate not a supporter of Turkey.
His report will give us an opportunity to dispute or discuss this subject objectively.
When I read Mr Ferber's motion, Amendment No 7, I increasingly suspect that it is not really about Turkey and the European Union at all.
It appears to be about Germany, about German domestic politics.
It appears to be about the fact that there will shortly be two important regional elections in Germany, in Hesse and in Lower Saxony.
We supposedly have to argue about Turkey in the European Parliament now, but that is the real reason why we are taking the opportunity to do so.
That is the main problem.
I will be perfectly honest with you.
At the moment I have more problems with Turkey than Mrs Sommer does, because I do not think much of Islamists, and I believe they are Islamists, even if nowadays they call themselves something else.
I am very curious to know how they intend bringing about everything they have promised.
I have tremendous problems with the latest development in particular.
All the same, I do not see why we are now misusing this debate for something else.
By suddenly producing such artificial debates, we are not actually being honest with the people of the European Union either.
If you want, let us do that when we are discussing the Oostlander report, and then people will see that we are capable of discussing openly and honestly.
