Mr President, the 'Prestige' tanker disaster is an appalling tragedy.
We must show solidarity here, and - as our Portuguese and Spanish colleagues should know - it must be tangible rather than abstract.
That is why the region and the people there need assistance from Europe quickly.
I do not think that anyone would question this.
We should be aware, however, that this disaster could be repeated any day, Commissioner, because for years it has been the same old story.
The combination of an ancient tanker that is only fit for the scrap heap and a flag of convenience - this time of the Bahamas - is usually the cause.
Flags of convenience are synonymous with poor quality, a poor vessel, poor technology and a poor crew.
Usually the story ends with a coordinated reluctance to claim responsibility so that no one knows any more who is actually to blame for what.
That, Commissioner, is the reason for Paragraph 3 of our motion.
As soon as all of the information is on the table, we will expect to receive a report from you stating who was responsible for this disaster, when, how and why.
I think that a few words will also have to be reserved for the Spanish authorities in this context.
I have been surprised at some of the statements made by ministers of transport over the last few days and at the demands that they are now making.
Clearly these transport ministers have forgotten that, for example, the regulation on compensation in cases of liability for oil pollution, which the Commission and Parliament have passed, has been lying on the table in the Council for over a year without any action being taken.
Commissioner, you have Parliament's full support if you want to put a bomb under these gentlemen in the Council so that we finally get legislation soon.
Where incidents of this kind are concerned, we have to call to account the oil companies, the shipowners, the cargo owners and the classification societies.
The system of flags of convenience cannot continue in its present form, Commissioner.
I appeal to you to consider making a proposal on this.
We need European shipping; we need good European vessels with good European crews.
Flags of convenience are a blight on the system.
Help to eradicate them by making a good Commission proposal.
Parliament will give it speedy consideration.
