Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like first of all to thank Mr Khanbhai very much for drafting his report and also for making it possible for us to cooperate so effectively with all colleagues.
Agriculture and rural development are of central importance in the EU and developing countries alike.
That is why I support and welcome the fact that 'food security and sustainable rural development strategies' is one of the six priorities listed for EU development policy.
The multifunctional agricultural model and its underlying philosophy is, I believe, also the only right way forward for developing countries.
We should continue to support the approach of making sustainable management one of the non-trade concerns.
Let me remind you that the EU is by far the world's largest importer of agricultural products from poor countries.
The Commissioner has already pointed out that the EU has substantially increased market access for the poorest countries in recent years.
I hope that other industrialised countries will also follow the EU's example.
The agripolitical measures in the developing countries should not focus exclusively on exports, but must above all guarantee the food security of the domestic population.
The war on poverty must continue to be the overriding aim of development policy.
An important precondition for this is to improve the infrastructure for supplying energy, for transport, for water supply and distribution and for health and education.
Above all, however, improved governmental and administrative systems as well as democracy and the rule of law are necessary, as has already been said, to enable robust policy-making.
Appropriate land reform and access to water and productive resources can enable the rural population to increase their standard of living and help to boost economic development.
To support the process of building appropriate capacities in the developing countries, the European Community should provide more technical help for farmers and also pass on technical know-how, for example on renewable energies and in many other areas.
A further essential aspect is, in my view, policy in rural areas, so as to stop migration to the slums, and it is also important that there be proper recognition of the work carried out by women.
