Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteurs, Göran Färm und Per Stenmarck, have already produced the broad outlines of our future Budget for 2003.
Previous speakers have highlighted particular points and added new ones.
I wish to do the same and highlight one small point, one that Mrs Buitenweg has already mentioned.
My particular concern, as incidentally has been the case for some time now, is small and medium-sized enterprises and above all micro-enterprises.
We cannot invent a new priority every financial year, so I am sticking to this one.
That is why I will also repeat what many of you know, but it will not do any harm to remind you of it again: 99% of all companies in Europe have fewer than 50 employees.
They employ more than half of all workers and are also responsible for around half of the European Union's entire turnover.
On average each company employs five people.
It is small and medium-sized enterprises that are very innovative and growth-driven.
They therefore play a decisive role in the fight to increase jobs and reduce unemployment.
That, for a social democrat, is what counts!
We are already doing a certain amount at European level to increase the competitiveness of SMEs; let me remind you of the multiannual programme for enterprise and entrepreneurship.
However, we want to do even more.
The project 'SMEs in border regions' should be replaced by a project on 'SMEs and enlargement' and - a number of social democrats have in any case spoken strongly in favour of this - we want a project that helps SMEs to implement the concept of 'Corporate Social Responsibility - a business contribution to sustainable development'.
So far these proposals have tended to be directed more at the large companies.
This comes as no surprise: after all they were involved in drafting them.
We do not consider this to be wrong, far from it, but now we want them to be extended to include guidelines for our small and medium-sized companies.
We want a pilot project on SMEs and social responsibility.
