Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many of those involved in this business used to wonder whether regulation is needed - they still do.
It is my belief that the answer to this question should be an unambiguous 'yes', even though many of the actors take the opposite view.
I am, in principle, opposed to the proliferation of rules.
I hope that the future will see politicians, policies, and even the Commission, judged on the basis of what rules and directives they have abolished or unified, rather than the opposite.
This situation, though, is rather different.
This is about honesty, about trust; this has to do with the prevention of theft, insecurity and, in the final analysis, fraud.
I am glad that there is to be an increase in controls and, it is to be hoped, that there will be more sanctions in future.
If I may turn to the subject of journalists and media freedom, I cannot but agree with what Mr Karas has said about the principle that we stand up for freedom of opinion and oppose any sort of censorship.
I do, however, see it as inadequate to take the view, as some in this House do, that the good name of certain media and media organisations that have been referred to guarantees that abuses will be prevented.
I was myself in that line of business and am, alas, all too well aware that publishers and journalists are human, but that there is a very, very narrow dividing line between honesty and respectability on the one hand and debatable conduct on the other.
It is for this reason that I believe a good reputation does not at present offer a sufficient guarantee, and that there is a need for regulation.
Arthur Andersen also had a good reputation until that business was struck by disaster.
I am in favour of these interests being disclosed.
I believe that we owe a duty to the public to address problems and find approaches towards a solution even in sensitive areas.
It will be for the future to show whether we have been able to do that properly in the first stage, with all the nuances involved.
We will then have to make any adjustments that turn out to be necessary.
(Applause)
