Mr President, we - by which I mean not only the economic actors, but also the Member States and the European Union - have to stand firm on implementing the Kyoto Protocol.
Mr Langen should not forget that we live in an internal market which is not meant to function in such a way that the lights go out all over Europe, but rather so that we try to create ecologically compatible and sustainable economic growth in the interests of employment and of saving the environment.
This, in my view, makes it very right and proper that the Commission should take note of the fact that certain Member States are already engaged in emissions trading, and that, as has repeatedly been said today, certain of them already have previous achievements to their name in reducing carbon dioxide.
This makes it particularly important that we should take 1990 as a base year.
Let me, moreover, make the economic point that it is extraordinarily important that emissions certificates be granted free of charge.
There is nothing to be gained from auctions; we have been shown that by our bitter experiences in the past, from the trade in banana licences to the auctioning of UMTS licences, and that is why it matters that this instrument should be granted free of charge.
It is important from the investor's point of view, as this will not lead to enterprises being harmed by costs at the outset and this will also ensure that emissions trading does not work like a tax.
Enterprises thus have at their disposal the resources they need for research and development and for the use of energy-saving, low-emission processes.
Allocation without charge also guarantees that all involved are on an equal footing and that the procedure is transparent.
I consider that to be of the utmost importance, and I must say that we welcome this proposal on economic grounds as well, because it ends up helping the price to take account of external costs.
I would, though, beg the Commission to do everything possible to achieve a breakthrough on the taxation framework directive as well, as it cannot but help to supplement taxes on business and thus help Europe to successfully realise ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
