Mr President, President of the Commission, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I would like particularly to thank the Commission for preparing for this occasion so outstandingly well over recent months.
It has put forward a proposal, based on all the analyses that have been possible to date, which is viable - so viable, indeed, that it will be possible, in December, to take the decisions to invite ten countries to join the European Union.
As the chairman of the committee responsible, let me say that we are making preparations to shape the parliamentary procedure as speedily as possible so that there is no delay on Parliament's part, and so that the date envisaged for the signing of the Treaties can be adhered to.
I am convinced that overall, Parliament will endorse a positive outcome.
This is a great moment, but this great moment does not mark the completion of the work, for the difficult negotiations will continue until December.
It must be clear that we cannot hold the accession countries hostage to problems we face in one Member State or another.
It must be clear to us that reforms must be undertaken in areas such as agricultural policy, but these reforms must not be framed in such a way as to give rise to an alibi for delaying the enlargement process.
The internal process within the European Union must be shaped in a way that ensures that there are no trumped-up new grounds for delay.
This is why we also call on the governments of the Member States to ensure that in those specific areas - such as agricultural policy and financing - where they have still not reached agreement, to do so as quickly as possible so that it is not down to us if there is a delay in the enlargement of the European Union.
As part of this process, for example, we must try to resolve the Cyprus issue in a way that ensures that there are no new tensions or delays.
I realise this is like squaring the circle, but I believe that this issue, too, can be resolved.
It must be clear that, outside the European Union, there is nothing by virtue of which any of the accession candidates has any right to influence the timetable for enlargement as it affects any country whatever.
There are many cases in which we too must have a clear awareness of this, regardless of the direction in which this is meant.
In my view, the accession candidates also need to continue their efforts, and I would like to thank the Commission for placing such emphasis on implementation through appropriate administrative and judicial structures.
The accession candidates still have a great deal of work to do before accession comes in 2004.
Transposing Community law into national law is not enough.
Capacity to implement this law in practice is also required.
This means providing the necessary aid, but it also means making the necessary efforts.
These efforts cannot end in December, for otherwise, we will find ourselves in a very difficult situation.
This also means making it clear - also with regard to the Czech Republic - that we have a legal system which does not tolerate discrimination.
In future, no EU citizen may suffer discrimination on any grounds whatsoever.
The European Union is not there to settle old scores but to make a new start and break through the cycle of violence in Europe, and this means that everyone must be willing to make their contribution.
I hope that the relevant reports commissioned by Parliament will be duly noted by all sides and the opportunity taken to unite this with appropriate signals, gestures and actions so that it can work well in practice.
Let me just add one more sentence, which should really be the longest part of my speech.
We too still have our homework to do, for we are not yet ready for enlargement either.
For this reason, the Convention preparing the European constitution must be a success next year: this is a prerequisite if an enlarged Community is to function.
We too are therefore called on to make a particular effort in this context.
