Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to thank my colleague, Mr Khanbhai, very much for his own-initiative report.
As a member of Parliament's ACP delegation, I have been concerned with this issue for years.
Sustainable agricultural policy, land reform and rural development are important political challenges with a view to the developing countries being entirely independent.
Why, with our considerable financial aid, have we not been able to make a more decisive contribution to improving the situation in the poorest countries?
I constantly ask myself what Europe is doing wrong.
What are the rich countries doing wrong, but also what do the poor countries gain by stepping up their own efforts?
I think that we will have to get much tougher on these issues because we can see - and have examples to prove it - that the world population is not prepared to put up with this injustice any longer.
As European politicians working on agriculture, we know only too well that the European Community's common agricultural policy regularly comes in for harsh criticism for the impact that it has on agriculture in the poorest countries and this has again been the case this evening in a number of contributions to the debate.
It is true, however, that the critics often think that the answer is too easy, because it is wrong to think that a greater opening up of trade will inevitably lead to better development of the food sector in the developing countries.
Many have said it: the EU is already the largest importer of food in the world and against this background the agricultural problems in the vast majority of developing countries will not be resolved solely by more intensive trade and agricultural deregulation.
It is actually wrong - and here too I am addressing Mrs Kinnock - to call for total liberalisation and an abandonment of national quotas in developing countries.
This would lead to merciless distortions of competition, which small farmers would have absolutely no chance of withstanding.
In conclusion, allow me to mention three facts: we need production for domestic consumption and for export on the basis of a reformed system of land tenure; we need better employment; we need sustainable management and we should consider new ways forward.
