Mr President, I am grateful to Mr Fabra Vallés, especially for the sensitivity by which he has been guided in recent weeks as regards the question of how his report should be publicly presented to the committee, believing as I do that it was necessary for us not to do this sort of thing behind closed doors while a report of this nature is also doing the rounds of interested parties in Brussels.
So let me express my gratitude for that.
I want to say something about the points that have already featured in numerous comments, such as, for example, the issue of the accounting system.
Over the coming months, we Social Democrats will need to make the Court of Auditors' observations the foundation of the work we do, and, on that point, I have complete confidence in our rapporteur, Mr Paulo Casaca, who will not release the Commission from its obligation of providing information.
There is though, one thing that I want to have put on the record, and that is the fact that the Committee on Budgetary Control attached conditions to the invitation to the accounting officer to whom a number of references have been made.
She was to provide additional evidence of the things that the Court of Auditors' comments had in any case already denounced.
We then learned from an article in a newspaper published here in Brussels, that she was not willing to do so.
This is also part of the story and should not be concealed.
I noted down what Mr Fabra Vallés said, in very diplomatic language, about the other point - that there was a lack of rigour and objectivity.
Let me say it in my own words: we Social Democrats - like the other groups - have refused to let this House and its procedures degenerate into a circus of personalities, and we will continue to do so.
Of course we do not include in that the Commission's expressions of delight at the state of the accounting system.
The comments made by the Court of Auditors indeed give every cause for concern, and this is not, indeed, a matter in which we will be handing out credit points.
We will pursue this matter, and the Commission will have to give an answer as to why, for certain periods of time, practically nothing was done to take into consideration the comments made by the Court of Auditors.
We will not let them get away with telling us that this could not be done, because work had to be done on the new Financial Regulation.
The two things have nothing to do with each other, and we expect prompt and clear information enabling us to follow up the reasons why certain things did not happen.
If these explanations prove to be less than satisfactory, things are going to get unpleasant for everyone involved.
That, I can promise you, is when things will turn ugly!
(Applause)
