Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Stevenson has already said, we are dealing today with our proposal on access requirements applicable to fishing for deep-sea stocks and the proposal for the imposition of TACs and quotas for deepwater species.
I would like to start by warmly congratulating Mr Holmes on his report.
Expert opinion is as one in confirming that deep-sea stocks are at present heavily overfished, and the pressure on fisheries continues to increase.
Stocks of deep-sea fish are, however, very sensitive in biological terms, as they have a very low breeding rate and grow very slowly - substantially more slowly than other types of fish.
It therefore takes many years before deep-sea stocks that have been too heavily fished are able to recover.
The opinions that we have received also state that TACs and quotas can be only a first step towards protecting deep-sea species.
Experts also urge that the fishing effort should be restricted and new methods developed, principally for the collection of data relating to these stocks.
That is why we have also submitted a proposal for licences, for effort limitation and the collection of data, and this proposal, taken as a whole, rests on four central pillars.
Firstly, we need better flow of information from the fishermen to the scientists.
Secondly, we have to introduce better supervision in order to get more reliable data.
Thirdly, we have to be more vigilant in monitoring the landing of deepwater species and provide for fishing vessels to be monitored with the aid of satellites.
Fourthly, we have to introduce a freeze on fishing licences for deep-sea species to keep them at the present level and prevent any further increase of the pressure on fishery.
As a whole, we have to gain better knowledge of deep sea fishing and improve the stocks.
Only then will we be able to enact fair and appropriate regulations.
So I hope that Parliament will endorse these measures.
I would like to wait until after the debate to say something about the amendments and let you know what position the Commission takes on them.
