Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to speak not about fish and frying pans, like Mr Fatuzzo, but about a very serious issue in connection with the Lambert Report.
The SPD Members of this Parliament have voted for this report although we can understand the difficulty that a number of our fellow Members had in supporting it.
I would like to mention one key point that persuaded us to give this report our support, although we would have liked it to be structured differently.
I have in mind here the fact that Mrs Lambert's directive makes no legal distinction between refugees, that is people who are victims of political persecution, and people who require the European Union to offer them temporary protection.
When the question is what care and benefits these groups of persons should receive in the EU Member States, this is quite justifiable.
Indeed, we do not want people who have fled from a country to be treated differently.
What is, however, at stake here is that a qualifying distinction needs to be drawn between someone who is a victim of political persecution, such as a member of a resistance movement against a dictatorship who goes into exile and needs protection, and on the other hand people fleeing from a temporary situation such as, for example, a civil war, who therefore only need temporary protection, or, as defined in the Geneva convention on refugees, subsidiary protection.
Mrs Lambert's directive covers all these groups of persons.
Our view is that a distinction ought to have been made.
We also make this distinction in German constitutional law as a matter of principle, because Article 16 of the German constitution defines a legally obtainable right to protection against political persecution, but not a legally obtainable right to subsidiary protection.
We German Social Democrats have therefore voted in favour of this report despite all these misgivings, partly because it would not have got through otherwise and this House cannot fail to deliver an opinion when consulted by the Council.
