Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, in view of all the decisions being made during this key phase of the enlargement process, I would like to support you in your call for us to continue with the reform of the common agricultural policy.
However, and this is an important distinction, we are now talking about reforming the common agricultural policy as from 2007, which means that we will continue with the present policy up to 2006 and that Europe's agricultural sector will move forward on the basis of a reformed policy as from 2007.
Commissioner Fischler, I think you need to assume that neither the timing nor the content of your proposals will be viable if we have correctly interpreted the compromise on direct agricultural payments negotiated in Brussels by the Heads of State and Government.
In other words, it is now clear that the agreements reached at the Berlin Summit will remain in force until 2006, and that the most recent decisions provide a firm basis for planning by the EU's farmers up to 2013.
This means that the candidate countries can certainly rely on increases in direct payments as from 2004.
That, incidentally, formed part of the proposals presented by the Commission back in December 2001 on the financing of direct agricultural payments for the enlargement countries.
The only difference, and this was already clear to us back then, is that the 100% compensation payments for all EU Member States in 2013 will no longer be matched by 100% financing capacity as in 2006.
I think it must be clear to everyone that this will be lower by then.
Every farmer in the enlarged European Union must be aware of that.
In order to prevent mistakes, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats are, in a motion for a resolution tabled by all the groups in the European Parliament, requesting, for this reason among others, that unlimited budget rights and full codecision should be transferred to this House for agricultural matters.
