Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's draft directive is meant to provide a minimum level of protection in the Member States for such third-country nationals as are actually in need of protection.
This implies, though, that secondary migration, in other words, the misuse of asylum to which Mr Vitorino referred, will thereby be kept under control.
So, Mrs Lambert, the prime requirement when it comes to dealing with economic migrants is support for impoverished countries, in order to prevent human resources from haemorrhaging away through emigration and to promote economic growth with a better quality of life for the people.
The subject of asylum is seen as sensitive in all the Member States, as is shown by the fact that it has been impossible, to date, to get any of the previous draft directives on this subject adopted by the Council.
I therefore regard the rapporteur's approach, which involves extending the already very far-reaching Commission proposal still further, as being quite utterly wrong.
It may soothe our own conscience to grant asylum also on economic grounds, but it does not help this Parliament to be taken seriously in our Member States.
The proposals for extending the scope of asylum to citizens of the European Union show how some MEPs regard ideologies as more important than sensible solutions.
Solutions, though, are what the citizens of our countries have every right to expect.
We and the people in our Member States are of one mind in believing that those who are persecuted must be given humanitarian aid.
This does not mean, however, that the granting of asylum can solve all this world's social, economic or environmental problems.
On the contrary, that leads to the great benefit of the right to asylum being nullified.
We, the representatives of the people, have the task of finding pragmatic solutions, on the one hand for the European Union, and on the other for the asylum-seekers.
A forward-looking asylum policy in the EU must also take into account the circumstances and needs of the people in our Member States.
The report before us does nothing of the sort, and so the PPE-DE Group rejects it.
