Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission welcomes Parliament's initiative in presenting a resolution on the human rights situation in Tibet.
We are deeply concerned about the death sentence passed on Lobsang Dhondup and Tenzin Delek on 2 December.
You may recall that Mr Delek was on the list of individual cases that we handed to the Chinese authorities under the human rights dialogue between the EU and China.
The Commission is also concerned because these death sentences are the first to be passed against Tibetans because of alleged political crimes for some years.
The Commission wishes to take this opportunity to inform Parliament that the EU troika raised this matter through diplomatic channels with the Chinese authorities on 13 December, at embassy level.
The EU requested information on both these cases and in particular on what evidence had been presented, and called for the trials to be reopened in accordance with international standards for fair trials.
Furthermore, the troika reaffirmed that the EU rejects the death penalty and its use in China in general, referring to the ongoing campaign of 'drastic action'.
By virtue of this prompt intervention on the part of the European Union and because of pressure from the United States and Australia, the executions have so far not been carried out, and the two convicted men have entered appeals.
The executions can therefore not be carried out until the People's Court has re-examined the case.
Although we believe that the immediate danger of execution has been averted for the time being, the Commission will continue to follow this case very closely, particularly as regards the provision of solid evidence and guarantees of a fair trial.
The European Union is also continuing to put pressure on China to guarantee the cultural, linguistic and religious identity of the Tibetan people.
It has repeatedly called for the initiation of a direct dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama, as this is likely to be the only way to secure a peaceful and lasting solution to the Tibetan question.
Against this background, the Commission is encouraged by the positive news conveyed by the two envoys of the Dalai Lama who visited China in September 2002.
We hope that this will be a first step towards the establishment of a more regular dialogue between Beijing and the Dalai Lama.
The Commission intends to continue to take only such cooperative measures in Tibet as will directly benefit the Tibetan population.
