Mr President, in order to combat mass unemployment, more flexible models of work need to be found.
Temporary agency work is making an increasing contribution to this process.
Successful placement on a temporary basis increases the chances of permanent employment.
This applies to the low-skilled and the long-term unemployed, but also to specialists.
In the opinion which I have drafted on behalf of the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities, we refer to the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We have incorporated the right to paid maternity leave and parental leave into the draft directive.
We are against every form of discrimination, whether it relates to payment for equal work or work of equal value, is based on sex, or discriminates against temporary workers compared with permanent staff.
For us, it was important to ensure that temporary workers should not be used to break strikes or as a means of imposing radical cuts in full-time jobs or permanent staff.
Men still account for more than three-quarters of temporary workers.
It is the difficulty in achieving a balance between work and family life that explains why there are far fewer women in this category .
Yet temporary work in particular allows adaptation to individual needs, and offers women good opportunities to enter the workforce or return to work.
There are problems in practice, however.
In Germany, temporary work agencies, known as Personnel Service Agencies, are now being established in the Employment Offices; as part of the public sector, they are subsidised from taxation and bear no commercial risks.
This puts the private temporary work agencies at a severe disadvantage.
I can tell the rapporteur, Mrs van den Burg, that the Federal Government is not implementing its supposedly groundbreaking concepts on a one-to-one basis, as it had pledged, but is watering them down.
Temporary agency staff are to be paid as much as the permanent staff in the user company from day one.
Yet equal pay from the start and the exclusive application of collective agreements are an impediment to temporary work.
It was unfortunate that my proposal to introduce a six-month qualifying period at European level failed to secure a majority.
In the Group of the European People's Party, we are therefore developing a compromise which takes appropriate account of the different rules in the Member States and respects the subsidiarity principle.
