Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to start by thanking our rapporteur, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, for his collegial cooperation in the temporary committee.
I am equally grateful to Mrs Redondo, who guided the committee very constructively and with great diplomacy and calmness.
I would also like to thank all my colleagues.
Our discussions with officials, experts and victims, as well as our visits to affected sites, helped us to engage in depth with the crisis caused by the outbreak of foot and mouth disease and, in general, with diseases and the means whereby they are dealt with and controlled, as well as with their prevention and with vaccination policy in Europe.
I am also most grateful to the Commission for always having been there with us and for doing its bit.
What makes foot and mouth disease especially problematic is that it is highly infectious and is therefore easily passed from one animal to another.
It is therefore absolutely vital for appropriate measures to be taken to combat the disease as soon as there is an outbreak, so that we never again have to see the sort of images that quite rightly prompted society's displeasure.
At this point, I would like to say, on a rather critical note, that the report could have made it clearer that a crisis of this sort could have been prevented if appropriate control measures had been taken and if the existing EU regulations had been adhered to or, in certain cases, transposed in the first place.
The important point here is that outbreaks of diseases such as this one can only be avoided if there are sufficient numbers of well-trained inspectors and if everyone concerned observes minimum standards and safety measures.
Furthermore, I would like to point out that it is the Member States that are responsible for extending the inspections carried out under their veterinary systems and for relevant research.
We should stress this again and again.
I therefore see it as self-evident that bureaucratic procedures and an inadequate information policy must no longer be allowed to be the causes of the spread of a disease.
Nevertheless, it must be clear to all of us that unfortunately epizootics can break out again in future, whatever is done to prevent them.
