Mr President, the escalation of force in Nepal is an unacceptable threat to stability in the entire region of the Himalayas.
The destructive work of the Maoist guerrillas continues unabated.
In many parts of Nepal there are no longer any schools or hospitals and the infrastructure will be in ruins for years to come.
Every week we hear of more police officers and civilians murdered.
The most recent low point was when the famous statue of King Gyanendra was blown up in the middle of Patan, an area that I know well.
One passer-by was killed and nine others were injured.
The guerrillas - unlike the majority of the population who are unequivocal in their support - want an end to the constitutional monarchy.
Over 5 000 people have fallen victim to the violence since 1996.
It was only last May that the European Parliament conferred with Prime Minister Deuba in Brussels.
Now the King has sacked him because, contrary to what he said in public, he was in favour of postponing the November elections for a year.
Bahadur Khadka, whom the King appointed as his successor , and who has already been prime minister twice before, is now heading the transitional government and has announced that he intends to secure peace and stability in the country and start negotiating with the rebels.
The position of the PPE-DE is perfectly clear.
Nepal needs the rule of law, pluralism and continuing parliamentary democracy.
The fight against corruption and nepotism must be stepped up and the postponed elections must be accompanied by effective security measures, so that they can be held as quickly as possible.
We call on the European Union, across the party political divide, to offer its services as mediator.
The Council should appoint a special representative for Nepal.
I hope the Commission shares this position.
I have acted as vice-chairman of the SAARC delegation for many years and know from my regular contacts with and in Nepal that Europeans are held in high regard.
We could start acting as honest brokers right now and make an important contribution to the peace that the Nepalese people have long deserved.
