Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament's Kangaroo Group has made an essential contribution to making the European internal market a reality.
Many of the Members speaking today belong to the Kangaroo Group.
It is this group that is today presenting you with an initiative demanding the further development of the internal market as it is today into a true European home market.
Over recent months, we have had talks with a large number of people in the business world in order to analyse where we have got to, what progress we have made in making the European internal market a reality, and it is the results of these that we are presenting to you today.
For a start, the European internal market is a success story.
A fundamental change occurred in the realities in Europe when the borders between the countries belonging to the European Community were thrown open.
Standardised entry requirements then made European firms substantially more competitive, and the creation of new instruments, among which I will mention only the European Patent Office, makes it very much easier for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to gain access to the European market.
We have, though, at the same time discovered that there are many areas in which no internal market exists, where we have fifteen domestic markets within a European internal market that does not really work.
We all know, for a start, that this is true in financial services.
It is the case in the life sciences, pharmaceuticals and other areas in which there is no internal market either, and it is true in the defence field, where the first hesitant moves are being made towards the creation of common policy and a common internal market.
Last but not least, the leap from internal market to domestic market demands of us - and I say this also for Mr Harbour's benefit - that we should have a common European currency in all the countries of the European Union, and this development also requires us to work on the basis of a common economic model.
This must, in my view, be that of the social market economy.
We now call on the Commission to come up with a coherent concept for introducing this new stage in the development of the European home market.
