Mr President, President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report shows a great deal of optimism but is also very realistic.
I agree with Commissioner Verheugen: much has been achieved, but many more reforms are required and we as parliamentarians in particular must study and evaluate the reports with vision, but also with precision and pragmatism, just as we must scrutinise the outcomes of the negotiations.
I would like to make one thing clear from the outset: without further efforts to establish the internal market, to integrate minorities - such as the Roma and Sinti - and enforce the rule of law, enlargement is unlikely to succeed.
However, let me also say, on this point, that it is down to us to behave in a way which is likely to build bridges.
Since the phrase 'Bene?
Decrees' has already been mentioned, let me say that I am very gratified by the studies commissioned by this Parliament, which show that there are no legal obstacles to the Czech Republic's accession.
At the same time, I believe it would be conducive to the climate of the negotiations and the decision-making process if the Czech Republic could find the courage to clarify the situation, which would entail a reappraisal of the Bene?
Decrees from a modern perspective - not as a demand or a condition, but rather as an offer.
Let me make one comment in my capacity as a former rapporteur for Turkey.
I understand that many people in Turkey, especially the pro-European forces, are disappointed by the Commission's proposals since they do not set a specific date for accession negotiations.
However, I understand and endorse the Commission's position, and I see a great opportunity for Turkey if it does not simply fixate on a possible date but is prepared to work with the European Union on building a genuine economic and political partnership with the EU until accession is possible.
The Commission's proposals are a starting point.
However, more can be done, and we can work on this together in the coming months.
I was asked today: what do I say to my constituents?
What does the Commission's proposal mean?
I would say that it means a resounding 'yes' to accession, and 'yes' to accession in 2004.
However, it also means that it is up to the countries themselves to decide whether they want to fold their hands in their laps or whether they are willing to continue working on the reforms.
My hope is that all the candidates are willing to continue working on the necessary reforms.
