Madam President, the Commission communication actually takes up a proposal which Parliament has debated time and again in this Chamber since the second stage of monetary union, namely the need to try and coordinate and interlink the various political areas much more closely.
We have always taken the view that this will only work once all the political areas have been put on an equal footing and all the Councils are considered equal under a guiding General Council.
Unfortunately it took the Lisbon process, some six years later, to grab this opportunity and I am delighted that we have now moved from theory into practice.
Commissioner, we have great expectations of the Commission; we expect an agreement to be reached.
Europe is sorely in need of one.
And that applies not just to economic and employment policy; it also applies to social and environmental policy.
Europe is sorely in need of one because we cannot afford the luxury of uncoordinated policies.
The Delors Commission concluded at one point that uncoordinated policies were costing us growth, which automatically means they are costing us jobs in the European Union.
We are counting on an end to this situation and from that point of view this new paper really is most welcome.
But it is only most welcome if it can rely on a more secure data situation than is presently the case and we can explain to our citizens that the coordination process is not just yet another euro-word or instrument which will not stand up in practice.
What do I mean by that?
We need to be able to show that certain economic or employment or environmental policy decisions in one Member State also harm or benefit the national economy or the job market or the environment in another Member State and can halt, freeze or foster growth, and we need statistics that can provide us with the relevant data.
Unfortunately, to the disappointment of European economic researchers, this is still not the case.
What we need is a coordination profile and this profile may become clear in the question of how we bundle investments, investments in research and development for example, where Europe unfortunately still has a great deal of catching up to do.
The main thing is that Parliament should be involved under an interinstitutional agreement, at the very latest by the time the Convention completes its reforms and the Treaty is amended.
