Mr President, as always Mr Lagendijk's report is excellent, comprehensive and prudent.
I genuinely believe that the Stability Pact and the Stabilisation and Association Process have chalked up a lot of successes overall.
Some of these have already been mentioned, such as the elections in Macedonia and developments in Albania, although I have to say that I have heard that the consensus reached between the major political groups in Albania is now at breaking point.
I would, however, like to comment on some of Mr Lagendijk's fundamental observations, because they seem very important to me.
You mentioned the debates on enlargement and the debates on the Balkans.
I was present at both debates today, and I was also at the enlargement debate, at which President Prodi made a statement that I consider to be very important.
He pointed out that the enlargement process with the ten new countries and also with the subsequent applicant countries has not yet been completed, and that this gives an important signal to the Balkans in particular.
I believe, and I also stated this in my own speech, that our experience with preparations for enlargement must act as a signal - and this applies to the Balkan countries too - that countries that advocate democracy, the rule of law, protection of minorities and human rights have a chance of joining the European Union at a later date.
I believe that we need to consider now how we are to manage the organisational requirements.
As I see it, the Stability Pact - and this is Mr Bussek's intention in his role as Special Coordinator - needs to become more focused, with a reduced role and tasks being increasingly transferred to the Commission.
This should not, however, take place outside the enlargement process, but should come in at the latest with effect from 2004/2005, when the new Commission will meet in accordance with the enlargement process.
I accordingly believe that we in this House need to give the Balkan countries a signal, or rather hope, that they too have a place in Europe, bearing in mind the Zagreb II Summit also.
It will then be up to them to decide if they wish to do all this so as to effectively secure a place in Europe.
