Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a few days' time, the European Council in Copenhagen will decide to enlarge the European Union by adding to it eight countries of the former Eastern Bloc as well as Cyprus and Malta.
This is the subject of negotiation and - necessarily - of occasional dispute, and haggling over one point or another, but nothing can conceal the fact that Europe, divided until 1989, is now, by taking this step, giving itself a new Community order, founded on the principle of democracy, the rule of law, freedom and the market economy.
I am convinced that, of all the political events we have experienced, it is this one that will be the most important for all the generations now living.
If some far-sighted person fifteen years ago had written out the agenda for this European Council, as it now is, complete with the reunification of Europe, he would have been thought to be deluded!
If, at that time, we had been asked about our willingness to pay another EUR 2.3 billion for it, I am sure that we would have answered with a loud, clear and instantaneous 'yes'.
Sustained effort will be demanded of us if this enlargement is to be managed - politically as well as financially, of that there is no doubt - but this is the moment when this Union of ours is joined by ancient European lands, which belong with us in exactly the same way as France and Great Britain do, and will join us in standing up for the principles of freedom and democracy under the rule of law.
The European Union is founded on the applicability of the law, and it is the acknowledgement of the law's applicability that alone holds it together.
That is why it is so significant that Parliament, in a resolution on the report on the negotiations with the Czech Republic, described the so-called Exemption Act as incompatible with our conception of law, and did so in a careful and balanced way.
This question is not just about German-Czech relations in the past, but also about Europe's present and future, as fundamental principles of law and their applicability are at stake, and it would certainly be helpful if the Czech Republic were to say something to clarify matters before enlargement.
Now, my notes include a sentence, such as we have heard uttered so often already, to the effect that discussions on Turkey must not be allowed to dominate to some extent the enlargement summit, but I see that we ourselves have been unable to resist this temptation, so that may well be the way things are in Copenhagen as well, making it clear that this is something that people get worked up about.
A few days ago, Commissioner Verheugen was quoted in a German newspaper as saying that he was against Turkey joining and that he proposed to the Turks the establishment of a special relationship as neighbours, a treaty that could also apply to other countries contiguous to the EU.
I am sure, Commissioner Verheugen, that you will explain this as a misunderstanding or a misinterpretation and, quite rightly, point out that this represents a breach of the confidentiality you presumably agreed on.
But this is not about you not being allowed to keep to yourself something that you want to have dealt with in confidence, but about the way this way of doing things encourages the impression that, on this issue, many are saying in public the opposite of what they actually think.
Where Turkey is concerned, you would not be the only one, as a whole host of those who advocate its accession do not actually want it to join and are taking cover behind the criteria.
That is a hypocritical way of going about things, and does more harm to the EU's relations with Turkey than it would to take stock of the situation with all the honesty that respect for this country requires.
So, what we want is not offers of dates for accession, but greater honesty in our relations with Turkey!
