Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in his introductory speech, Mr Brok said something that is, basically, applicable to all the candidate countries, but also to the Czech Republic.
There is still room for catching up in both the economic and administrative spheres.
I do not wish to go into them in depth, as these things are basically not problematic, but will be resolved in the near future.
Please permit me to concentrate on one point that is of especial significance - the decrees of President Edward Bene?, which we have discussed at very great length in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
On behalf of our group, I have tabled a final amendment, which I would like to put before you now.
It reads thus: 'The European Parliament refers to the report commissioned by it and supports its common conclusions, namely that the presidential decrees do not pose an obstacle to Czech accession to the EU, meaning that all Union citizens will enjoy the same rights on Czech territory after accession, that all judgments handed down in absentia have been quashed, and that Law No. 115 of 8 May 1946 has no justification for its existence from the point of view of modern jurisprudence' - let me repeat - 'that Law No. 115 of 8 May 1946 has no justification for its existence from the point of view of modern jurisprudence; regards the statements of principle made in the German/Czech Declaration of 21 January 1997 as a sound basis for reconciliation, which represents the moral foundation for European integration; considers a political gesture by the Czechs to this effect as desirable.'
This text respects the dignity of all those who suffered during the past decades, although it is important again to call to mind the sequence of the historic events.
First came rule by the Nazis, then the Czech lands were occupied by Nazi-ruled Germany, then there was the war, and then came the expulsions.
A very, very large number of people suffered - Czechs, Sudeten Germans, Hungarians, Roma and others.
I believe that this text respects the dignity of all of them, but also respects the dignity of all those who live in the Czech Republic and in the European Union today, of all those who are alive, but had nothing personally to do with these events and who are looking forward, to whom it is the present and the future that matter.
Beyond that, this text makes no demands and exerts no pressure on the Czech Republic.
Let me conclude by saying that, as my final amendment does justice to all sides, I ask you to vote tomorrow to accept it, along with the report as a whole.
