Madam President, I must admit to being rather moved, for not even in this House is this amount of praise and appreciation to be reckoned with.
I admit to enjoying it, for politicians do not often come in for praise, at any rate not with such frequency and regularity.
It has made me feel good, but I have already tried to pass this praise back.
Thank you for the debate, which I hope will turn out to be the last on this topic in this House; you have heard, Mr Liikanen, that it will be your future task to monitor how progress is made.
It will be your task to see to it, along with your fellow Commissioner Mr Busquin, that the European Community's Joint Research Centre has sufficient resources to evaluate the alternatives that will then come into existence.
Your mission is to drive industry onward, support it and, in tandem with it, to ensure that alternatives are developed quickly and equally quickly accepted.
This is something we must do together.
Commissioner, you have heard today a message that will surely get through to the cosmetics industry and the Member States too: we will be very vigilant as regards how the timetable is kept to, and that this time there really will be the cut-off point of which Mr Florenz and others spoke earlier.
I would rather not hear anything further said on this subject in this House.
My wish is that there should now be a timetable, one that might even now be complied with even more promptly, and that that should draw a line under the subject.
Please let me conclude by again saying 'thank you' - that is why I wanted to say a final word.
Not to you, though, ladies and gentlemen, for I have thanked you already.
I would like to thank those without whom I could not have carried on this work - first and foremost my assistant Mrs Annika Nowak, who is probably sitting listening to this in my office, and who knows this dossier better than I do, but also especially the Secretariat of the Conciliation Committee.
Parliament has good staff; some of them are more than just good, and the Conciliation Committee Secretariat, sitting over there today, has certainly had the most work to do, far more than I have had myself.
Let me now - yes, this really is the end! - say 'thank you' to Mrs Kerry Postlewhite, one of my group's staff, who, throughout the last few years has advised me and been of use to me in my capacity as group leader and rapporteur, and without whom I would not have been able to keep my feet on the ground.
Today is probably the last time she will sit here in the plenary, as she is soon to take up other duties, and, whilst I am saddened by this, I know she will be doing something new that she will like and that will be a joy to her.
I have no idea how the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy and I are supposed to work without her.
Anyway, we will give it a try.
She is here working on one of her briefs for the last time, and so my final and especial thanks must go to Mrs Kerry Postlewhite.
Thank you for the debate, and I hope that the vote, which is about to take place, will go well.
