Thank you, Mr President.
EUR 13 million were spent on the DAPHNE Programme from 1997 to 1999, EUR 20 million for the DAPHNE Programme 2000-2003, whilst, for DAPHNE II and the years from 2004 to 2008, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats believes that EUR 50 million will have to suffice.
It is not, however, the money that concerns me.
I welcome our discovery of street children as a new target group.
It has been not only in Nepal and India that I have seen their misery.
I know what is the fate of many of them in the EU's candidate countries, and also, for example, in major German cities.
Some are from families in which there is physical violence and sexual abuse.
Some believe that they survive only by joining together in gangs.
They use drug dealing, theft, and small-scale crime as means of keeping their heads above water.
Physical and emotional violence, day in and day out, hardens many to all normal feeling.
DAPHNE is meant to raise awareness of violence against girls and boys, young people and women, awareness of how it comes about, awareness of its effects, awareness of how it may be overcome.
That this is for the Member States to deal with is not a matter of doubt, but there is a dearth of public resources.
It is all the more important that help should be given at European level.
Knowledge about the projects is what is needed.
Which were successful?
How have the victims worked through the violence they have experienced, and what has been learned from the many mistakes?
These are topics for seminars, conferences and studies, but always in collaboration with the national NGOs and self-help groups.
There is real hope of change through social facilities in which healthy groups can develop, in which friendship can be experienced, solidarity can develop, where children can be motivated to achieve good results at school and be equipped for their integration into the world of work.
This is also about adequate accommodation for the victims of violence and about the law standing by the individual.
DAPHNE II must succeed in mobilising public awareness.
We also need support through the media questioning the need for violence rather than merely depicting it or even glorifying it.
If, moreover, this can be achieved by way of committed campaigning across national borders, then such collaborative effort will bring with it real added value for Europe.
