Mr President, the Commission has emphasised in its communication that enlargement of the European Union will be the core challenge of 2004.
Whilst the importance of this issue is not to be denied, I do, however, have my doubts as to whether these Budget lines will actually enable the Commission to handle these challenges.
My real concern is with the fact that, in connection with enlargement, provision has been made for expenditure of some EUR 11 billion in 2004, which amounts to only 10% of the total commitment appropriations.
In agricultural expenditure, the proportion is as low as 2.4%.
These proportions are hardly likely to guarantee the Member States participation on an equal basis, even when it is borne in mind that accession will happen as late as 1 May, so what I expect of the Commission is that they should set out in detail in the preliminary draft Budget what legal entitlements the new Member States will have to participation in all programmes funded from the EU Budget.
Funds for the structural measures are very extensive - for this too, sensible advance plans were made in former years - but what is not working is the outflow of resources.
What I expect is that the Commission will not delay long in producing precise figures and an analysis of why this is so and of the obstructions involved.
There is a need here for greater confidence in the system's fairness, for not one euro of structural support funding must be wasted.
For many citizens in the European Union's regions, the projects that depend on such funds are often the last fragile hope for the maintenance of their jobs.
Now, today, the starting pistol has been fired, and the process of drawing up the preliminary draft of the 2004 general Budget can begin; there are important debates before us, and important work remains to be done.
I therefore expect absolute transparency of the whole procedure, coupled with wide-ranging public relations work, which cannot fail to improve the public's perception of the European Union.
