Madam President, what is so outrageous about the illegal exploitation of the Congo's natural resources is that it is all too apparent that Congolese politicians, as well as politicians from other countries - whether or not these countries have been called upon to provide military assistance - have helped themselves to an equally shameless degree, as have high-ranking military personnel, particularly from Zimbabwe.
Numerous private undertakings have also joined in helping themselves to the country's raw materials.
Although firms from outside Europe are also involved, we should very definitely be working through and analysing the list naming European firms and private individuals.
This should be done in the individual Member States and with a view to criminal prosecution.
I do not think that there is much of a distinction of substance to be drawn between this case and the way in which corrupt African regimes grant licenses for the extraction of raw materials, with part of the license fees or indeed of the proceeds going straight into the ruler's personal bank account.
Some of this may even be listed as a receipt in the state's budget, but it is virtually unheard of for the people to benefit from it in the shape of infrastructure or health provision.
The fact that these regimes can only keep themselves in power because they are kept by Europe means that what we need is a debate, in plain words, on the principles by which we Europeans are guided in our dealings with Africa.
There is an unspeakable and unacceptable discrepancy between, on the one hand, the text of the Cotonou Treaty and the honeyed words that we will get to hear in Lisbon over the coming weeks at the Franco-African and EU-African summits, and, on the other, the brutal reality of Africa.
We cannot fail to observe that certain governments collude and collaborate with European firms that then provide certain regimes with a lifeline in order to maximise their own profits.
If we do not speak frankly about these things, we will bring about no real change in the situations in Africa.
