Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports this compromise resolution on the human rights situation in Guatemala.
I am very glad that this issue is on today's agenda.
I worked, for a time, as a doctor in Guatemala, and myself became familiar with the situation in that country.
The greatest problem in Guatemala was then - and still is - the extreme disparity between wealth and poverty.
Being a Christian Democrat, I certainly am not among those who leap to the defence of tax increases.
In Europe and in my own country too, taxes are certainly too high, but the situation in Guatemala is that the rich simply do not see themselves as being under any obligation to contribute to the country's development.
That is why we have incorporated into the Joint Resolution a passage intended to ensure that the necessary adjustments are made, as it is necessary also to draw upon the financial resources of the wealthy in a given country for such purposes as the improvement of its educational systems.
The issue of land and of the way in which it is shared out is without doubt a key to future development in Guatemala and in its neighbouring countries, and, at the end of 2002, MEPs belonging to different groups organised a conference on the subject.
What I learned from this conference was that it is possible to reach the same objective without resorting to inflammatory language, and for that reason, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has not used the term 'agricultural reform', opting instead for an expression that, although rather more unwieldy, has found its way into the Joint Resolution, simply in order to avoid provoking counter-reactions that would then get us no nearer our objective.
Something else that is very important - and I am glad that it has been incorporated into the Joint Resolution - is that any policy must have education and training as one of its basic components.
It is no use simply giving people a plot of land; they also have to know how to cultivate it.
Taken as a whole, the Joint Resolution is an even-handed compromise, and it is out of conviction that we support it.
