Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the WTO negotiations in Cancun, we have a clear objective in mind.
The global economy needs framework conditions, and if we do not succeed in giving it some, and in good time, we will face conflict situations that may well lead to major difficulties, not only for us in Europe, but also for the world as a whole.
As 20% of our jobs depend on world trade, our vital interests are involved when we consider what markets will be accessible to us in future.
There are currently ten new countries wanting to join us, and, when they do, Europe's population will grow by 20%, offering us an interesting market, with interesting production techniques.
Across the world, billions of consumers await the products and services that we supply.
We should be constantly reminding ourselves that Europe's success is in fact founded on the active efforts of small and medium-sized firms, which account for 80% of taxes paid.
For that reason, it should be a matter of primary concern for us that the right conditions should be created to enable small and medium-sized firms to take part in international trade.
We therefore demand that all import rules be notified to, and made available by, the WTO, so that it becomes once and for all transparently clear what provisions - on labelling, packaging customs duties - have to be complied with when supplying goods to a specific country.
Today, if a firm is part of a group and has its own experts, it can readily find the answers to a vast number of questions, but for a small firm of under half a dozen people, this is impossible.
We therefore demand that there should be a register, kept at the WTO, in which the import rules of every country are recorded, with the possibility of completing a standard form, in current language, downloaded from the Internet.
Whilst we want to give small and medium-sized firms in developing countries a chance to export, we also demand that the 18 million small and medium-sized firms that we have at present in the European Union - especially those interested in exporting worldwide - should get what they are entitled to, and that the WTO should give them a fair chance.
The fact is that these firms employ two-thirds of the European Union's workforce, and I believe that it is worth our while to stand up for them.
