Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Mauro report does indeed contain proposals for making this programme even more effective.
It was already very good the way the Commission had proposed it, but the proposals Mr Mauro has made improve it still further.
Above all, I believe that the apportionment of funds - as he envisages it - enables this programme better to meet the demands that we make of it.
I cannot see how these paltry resources are meant to enable us to bridge what is called the digital divide, which is for real and consists in the fact that, in some countries, many schools are equipped with computers, while, in others, very few have them.
That is why we have tried something for which I also thank Mr Mauro, namely to make you more aware of this.
Our amendment is among the twenty-four that aim to get schools communicating with each other and more money spent on equipping them with computers.
The other question, as to how we can close this digital divide between one nation and another, cannot be answered on this occasion.
This is a gap that can perhaps be filled by using money from the Cohesion Fund or from the Social and Regional Fund.
This approach to the eLearning Programme must, as you said, be increasingly directed towards the creation of synergies between existing programmes and the eLearning Programme.
If we attach particular importance to schools being linked up to each other through a network, that is something that can be firmly tied into the 'COMENIUS' programme, and which actually has been hitherto, probably without any support.
I have seen this in many schools that I have visited in connection with the COMENIUS programme.
I believe, then, that this is where we have to forge a new partnership, one that promotes eLearning as an aid to language learning, as well as intercultural dialogue, above all in schools.
When we talk in terms of a virtual campus, that of course relates to what we were discussing earlier in connection with the De Sarnez Report.
There must be a close connection with Erasmus and Erasmus World.
If we are to achieve the best results, we have to combine virtual mobility and physical mobility.
I would like, moreover, to underline what Mr Mauro said earlier.
There is a massive shortage of teachers, and the attempt must be made, with the help of this programme, to compensate for it.
Teachers should not lag behind their pupils, but really should be a bit further ahead, so that they can inject greater stimulus into this area.
The eLearning Programme - as at present envisaged - is an important addition to all the educational programmes currently in existence.
Again, sincere thanks for all the work you have done.
