Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate Mrs De Sarnez on her excellent report and thank her for her good and constructive cooperation.
The Erasmus Welt programme, which is so important to the future of the European Union, shows how important and sensible it is that Parliament's committees should cooperate well with the Commission.
The Commission proposal is supplemented by the amendments tabled to it, which also put it on a broader foundation, especially in financial terms, with EUR 300 million instead of the proposed EUR 200 million.
New programmes, especially in the fields of education, culture and youth, which represent important investments in our future, raise again and again the key issue of where we are meant to get the money from if there is none under the heading provided for that purpose.
Where is the money supposed to come from if we are disinclined to cut back other similar programmes under the same heading?
This question has to be put and answered in this plenary more than once, and I can see the same problem arising with Mr Mauro's report on eLearning.
Our Parliament has the traditional policy of defending existing programmes.
In its legislative capacity, the Council can indeed see how important these programmes are, but as a budgetary authority, it is unwilling to allocate more funds to Heading 3.
The current Financial Perspective, which still has until the end of 2006 to run, leaves an extremely small amount of foreseeable room for manoeuvre.
That will, in any case, affect the first three years of the Erasmus World programme.
The Lisbon strategy, though, which we are pursuing, might well make this a good opportunity for us to show our colours.
What priorities do we want to set for the distribution of the funds available, if we want to achieve the transformation into a competitive, dynamic and knowledge-based society, as was reaffirmed, yet again, by everyone at the Brussels Summit just over two weeks ago?
With this in mind, we should be putting the case for this important new programme to receive appropriate funding, to the tune of EUR 300 million.
Let me then repeat my urgent appeal to the Council to join with us in looking forward and going ahead with this.
As a member of the Committee on Budgets, I have to reiterate that the present situation will very probably result in a redeployment of the funds under Heading 3 in order to guarantee compliance with the financial upper limit.
It might make sense, in the first instance, to reallocate funds from those action programmes for which no financial framework has yet been laid down in the Financial Perspective, or for which such a framework is to be decided on by way of codecision after 2007.
