Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank the rapporteur for his proposals, which are supported by our group as well.
In our view, there is a need to put forward ambitious objectives and pragmatic specific measures, with new and innovative approaches and more local and regional initiatives - all of which you have included in your report.
For a long time, we have been passing resolutions demanding that the national parliaments be more involved - not only Denmark's and Scotland's, but those right across the European Union.
However, the fact that the European Employment Policy allows national objectives and decision-making leeway is another indicator of how astute it is.
What I would like to tell the honourable lady Member from Sweden is that the German labour market might well be in need of reform, but there is not one Member State of the European Union in which the removal of protection against dismissal has helped to create jobs.
I want to say, though, that there are two points on which we are critical of the Christian Democrats.
One, which has already been referred to, is Amendment No 62.
The Commission has proposed the use of immigration policy to govern the way in which the potential labour becoming available through immigration is used.
I think there is a need for the Christian Democrats to face up to this fact and for this not to be taken, as it were, ad absurdum by means of special bilateral arrangements between the Member States, with conservatives remaining silent in the face of this practice.
We cannot support tax cuts across the board, and I find it regrettable that this amendment is being treated as the most important.
Europe's entrepreneurs expect something different: their expectations are for the security that makes it possible to plan for the long term, for qualified workers, the best possible infrastructure, promotion of science and research, the weeding-out of rules and regulations, and investment.
There is a need for such measures, and they cannot be brought about by tax cuts across the board.
