Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we all agree that we in the European Union urgently need immigration, since our economy's labour requirements simply cannot be met by the numbers as they are at present.
This is the reason why immigration is so necessary.
It is also evident that any such immigration has to be managed in the best way available in order to meet the needs of the labour market at the same time as those of the population and also of the immigrants themselves.
On that we all agree.
It is also self-evident that there are economic areas in which we will need workers and others in which we will not.
We agree on that as well.
It is equally clear that we cannot allow, and do not want, our own workers at home to have to face competition.
Thus far, we are all of one mind.
If I may consider Mrs Terrón i Cusí's report, let me observe that we can be grateful to her for having been so bold as to endorse the Commission proposal and making a contribution to our eventual shaping of the uniform provisions as regards immigration and the European labour market.
Her having done that makes it a matter of course that some will end up having problems with her proposals, just as they do with the Commission's.
On the other hand, though, Mr Nassauer, I do not see why either this report or the directive from the Commission should be destined for the dustbin.
Why does the Treaty on the European Communities have to be treated as if it were holy writ?
And why do we, European politicians that we are, who want the competences in all other areas of European policy to be laid down in Brussels, suddenly have colossal problems because the labour market is involved and want to have everything organised at national level?
I think this is where we could take a long view, a rather more generous approach, and demonstrate more willingness.
Things that do not fit in today's thinking could perhaps be European policy in five years' time.
It is for this reason that I can well imagine that we could adopt a much more generous approach in this area.
