Mr President, Lobsang Dhondup, a Tibetan, was executed three days ago, despite all the appeals made by world public opinion and the human rights organisations, and the approaches of ambassadors of EU Member States notwithstanding.
Nor did our debate in this House, and the resolution we adopted unanimously on 19 December 2002, have any effect.
On 26 January 2003, the People's Court in Chengdu confirmed the death sentences that had been passed on Lobsang Dhondup and on the Buddhist lama Tenzin Delek.
They were accused of involvement in an attack using explosives and of sabotaging national unity.
Lengthy solitary confinement without contact with family or legal representatives is a manifest breach of the UN's minimum standards for the treatment of prisoners.
Their trial was neither fair nor in accordance with the rule of law.
A public hearing in open court - demanded by this Parliament among others - was refused on the flimsy grounds that state secrets were involved.
There was no free choice of legal representation, and public defence counsel were appointed by the court.
Lobsang Dhondup's execution resulted in immediate protests by the EU Member States.
It will also be on the agenda of the human rights conversations between Germany and China.
Great Britain has reiterated the demand for the death penalty in China to be at last abolished, and the human rights dialogue between the EU and China must now at last concern itself with this serious case.
It is a disaster; while China is trying to cut a credible figure on the world stage, the most basic conditions of the defence of human rights are being disregarded.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, and as President of this Parliament's Intergroup on Tibet, I call upon the Council, the Commission and the Member States to intervene without delay and prevent the death sentence with which Tenzin Delek has been threatened from being carried out.
For decades, this lama has worked in the religious, cultural and social fields - with such manifest success that all hardliners see him as a threat.
This appalling event can leave us in no doubt that China's violations of fundamental rights should be on the agenda of the Human Rights Convention in Geneva, and the European Union must take the lead in this.
