Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that you will be aware that there are, within my political group, differences of opinion and diverse views on the purpose of European political parties, and of the rationale behind them.
I am, myself, in favour of them.
I am convinced that, as integration continues to progress, they will be able to help our continent to continue to grow together and also help, progressively, to foster European awareness in every Member State.
That is why I also think it a good thing that this overriding idea should be incorporated in the Convention's draft for the Constitution, where it is enshrined in law in Article 45(4) in the section on 'Democratic Life in the European Union'.
I wish to add my gratitude to that expressed by Members of this House to the rapporteur, Mr Leinen, to the Greek Presidency of the Council and also to the Commission, for enabling an acceptable compromise to be worked out yesterday.
I see this as being very important in terms of this House's political credibility.
As those who spoke before me have pointed out, this problem has been pursuing us for a long time, and it must now be sorted out once and for all, as it is, above all, in the public's interest that there should be nothing that the Court of Auditors might criticise in future.
It is for that reason that I support the text of the regulation.
In particular, the provisions in Article 3 on the 3% threshold and on the parties being represented in at least one quarter of the Member States are really important, especially to the smaller political parties.
Commissioner De Palacio is of course quite right to say that it is an absolute requirement that the regulation should take political pluralism into account.
I regard the proposed rules on donations as clear and unambiguous.
Above all, they safeguard the transparency of party finances, which is indispensable and - as you will be aware - a sensitive point, perhaps the most sensitive of all.
This House should, in my view, speak out in favour of all information relating to donations being accessible to the public at any time.
It would be for the best if, when the regulation takes effect, the political parties themselves were to undertake to post on the Internet all data relating to income from donations.
With this in mind, I wish to express my endorsement of this proposal for a regulation.
