Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too get the feeling that sustainability, in the context of preparations for this year's Spring Summit, is seen only as an appendix to general policy development.
This is indeed regrettable, as - or so I believe -the future development of our society is to a very large degree dependent on how we manage to fashion the elements of our lives in an ecological way that will also be able to enable future generations to live decently.
In so far as that is the case, we need to step up our efforts in the area of sustainable development; it is here that I address my remarks particularly to the Council, as we in this House, as well as the Commission, have specified in precise terms what shape sustainable development should take.
President Prodi, when the Gothenburg Summit was in preparation, laid out before this Parliament very clear indicators and objectives for sustainable development, and these I can wholeheartedly endorse.
What I believe hampers our discussion is the Council's failure to take these objectives on board, so that, whilst we are drawing up projected goals for many policy areas, sustainable development is not one of them.
This means that it is not possible for us to impose any binding obligations, nor can we monitor what is done.
I do not at this point want to draw up a long wish list, as one does at Christmas, but we have to focus our considerations on one or two core elements, and in that respect, strategy for dealing with climate change is certainly one important area, and transport another.
What matters is that there should be binding targets, which the Member States have to achieve.
I might add that this encourages renewed investment and creates jobs.
Let me remind you only of the way in which the promotion of forms of energy such as wind energy has created tens of thousands of jobs in the European Union.
What we need, then, is definite goals, goals that we must achieve, rather than only - as Winston Churchill put it - planning great things but taking small steps!
