Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, along with continuity and accountability, planning a budget requires that any necessary adjustments and reforms be made; more than anything else, it also calls for political vision.
In a constructive dialogue, this House's specialists in social policy have made a package of these objectives and adopted them by an overwhelming majority in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
Our priorities include industrial safety, by which I mean that our agencies should be adequately equipped and enabled, above all, to press on with the programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises and also micro-businesses, something that is especially necessary in the candidate countries.
We also seek a moderate increase in funding for the Community initiative EQUAL and for non-governmental organisations.
The Community initiative EQUAL is a specific instrument, within the framework of the European Social Fund, for realising our ideas and achieving our objectives, which are also those of the Lisbon process.
We have to make progress towards these goals, and to do so, we have to guarantee that the initiative is endowed with the necessary funding.
We need more jobs - sustainable jobs - and we also want to promote training - training with qualifications - and strengthen its role in the Member States, while at the same time offering businesses incentives to discharge their obligations.
Until such time as there is any change, we will keep on criticising the flow of funds from the European Social Fund, which, this time round, is still a scandal - not one attributable to Parliament or the Commission, but, we believe, one for which the Member States bear responsibility.
This is something that we want to change in the forthcoming reform of the Structural Funds, rather than taking action in the course of this Budget.
Our political vision is of course not just about making enlargement a reality, but primarily about the creation of a social Europe, which is where we still have a lot of catching-up to do in amidst the other tasks that Europe has to accomplish.
