Madam President, Commissioner Reding, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, world trade guarantees some 20% of jobs in Europe, which means that if we gain larger markets, we can sell more and create additional jobs.
If, in addition to that, we can purchase at advantageous prices, we become more competitive, and that is in line with the Commission's objective of making us world leaders within ten years.
It is my belief that, when talking about GATS and the WTO, we must, as a matter of priority, talk about the chances involved as well - about markets being opened up, prosperity increased, competitiveness and the possibility of increased wages.
If we put markets under a sort of bell jar, if we suffocate a market, the end result is bankruptcies and unemployment, and let me say that these days, of course, decisions to do this are taken mainly at national level.
Such decisions, of course, are party political in nature.
I travelled here today by rail from Wels in Austria; this took over seven hours in journey time alone and I was very late arriving here.
Last Monday, I sent a letter from Brussels to Austria, and it has still not arrived there.
When I travel back to Brussels, I remember that the sewage treatment plant there is still not working despite public provision of services of general interest, and that Brussels is currently pumping sewage, quite untreated, into the sea.
When I think of the universities, where the students have to sit on the floor, and where many of the professors' knowledge is not up to modern-day requirements, then I say that, yes, these are party political decisions that have to be taken by the voters in the various countries.
We should also, though, be thinking of the future; rather than seeing only the WTO's multilateral dimension, we should also be seeking out bilateral ways forward, especially with the USA, Russia and China.
I also believe that this is where a Parliamentary Assembly would be enormously effective in achieving greater transparency and justice in the future.
