Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will quite openly admit that this issue rather tends to pull me in two directions at once.
From the legal point of view, on the one hand, it is quite clear that pacta sunt servanda - treaties under international law are to be adhered to.
We know which territory is internationally recognised as being Israel's, we know which areas are occupied; we also know that products from Israel can be imported and that produce from the areas occupied by it cannot be.
In practice, gathering evidence is very difficult; so, in practice, is knowing where to draw the line.
The Commission's answer has this to say on the subject: 'These principles do not apply to products which have been sufficiently processed within Israel's internationally recognized borders.'
Does that, then, mean in practice that oranges harvested on the West Bank are processed in Israel, the juice bottled and exported to the EU?
Is that what is meant by 'sufficiently processed'?
Or is it 'sufficiently processed' only if the juice is blended with that of apples and bananas in a mixed fruit cordial with the orange juice making up less than 50%?
I think this shows us how difficult it is in practice to draw a distinction, even where the proportions are concerned.
That is why, in this context, we should ask ourselves the important question as to whom this is meant to benefit.
Does it do the Palestinians any good when an Israeli orchard, or a factory on the West Bank, is closed down?
The workers there are laid off, and then the same production operation restarts in the Israeli heartland with immigrants from Russia.
This, of course, does the Palestinians no good at all, but at least the position is clear-cut in legal terms.
We have then maintained the legal position, but we have not necessarily helped the Palestinians.
We should ensure that the actions of the Commission or of the European Union do not make overall relations between Israel and the Palestinians worse than they already are.
I am therefore in favour of the Commission continuing to act in these matters with the same caution and conscientiousness that it has demonstrated so far, never losing sight of the overall framework within which relations between Israel and the Palestinians are developing.
