Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we have heard today more than once, it is important and a matter of urgent necessity that we should make every effort in order to boost Europe's attractiveness as a knowledge base and thereby draw closer to the Lisbon objectives.
At the moment it looks more as if we are moving away from them.
Erasmus World can be an opportunity to make up this deficit.
It is the exchange of knowledge between Europe and third countries, rather than the concentration of knowledge in Europe that is the basis on which we will reach our objective.
The programme is aimed widely, at institutions of higher education and postgraduate students all over the world, at students within the European Union, who can go abroad, and at scientists and academics from third countries.
I do believe, though, that it is important for our students who go abroad that the necessary recognition of academic achievements and degrees should be pushed through and improved, and that Erasmus students should have study abroad improved and made easier for them.
I would also like to emphasise that I am very much in favour of equality of opportunity or a balance in men and women's participation in this programme.
Neither in terms of the countries' participation nor of the academic disciplines do I want this to be treated as secondary.
If we do not pay attention to equality of opportunity from the very outset, we will have problems with making it a reality later on.
I would also like to briefly address the issue of multilingualism.
On this, opinions differ, but I do not think that participation in this programme can be dependent on it, as the Masters' courses have their own priorities, and the students accommodate themselves to them.
I do indeed think that linguistic diversity has a part to play during courses of study, and I also believe that people must have the opportunity to participate in language courses, but that they should not be considered to be admission criteria for the bursary.
Let me just say something about the financial arrangements.
We are glad of the EUR 300 million, but it is not acceptable that this should be deducted from other programmes.
If this is not to go against the idea of promoting a knowledge-based society, there must be additional funding.
