Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would very much like to underline the fact that Mrs De Sarnez, by using the title 'Erasmus Mundus' has found the right expression, and I am glad that she has.
It needs no explanation; that this is a better description than Erasmus World is self-explanatory.
For 'Mundus' shows that we have a multiplicity of languages and do not express ourselves in only one language, the so-called lingua franca, English.
So I am glad that we have chosen the Latin word.
Mrs De Sarnez' report takes up three points that are of great importance to us on the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, and also in my group.
The first is the European dimension and the European value that the opportunity of mobility adds to education.
Secondly, Europe is given an enhanced presence on the international stage, becoming more attractive and also more competitive - particularly in the field of university education.
The third point is the accent on language learning, and here I want to contradict all those who have said that this is not important.
I am glad that this additional amendment is there, for it is the learning of our region's languages that helps the people who come to us to grasp its cultural diversity.
Fourthly, the increase to EUR 300 million reflects the desire to create a real European educational area.
If, on a Sunday, I talk about how important that is, if I make statements about it in Bologna or in Lisbon, only, on Monday, to fail to make the money available, then the written word is worthless.
That is why we should remind our masters in the Council that they now have to make their contribution, in order to do justice to the high expectations they have of themselves.
The stunning success of the Socrates/Erasmus programme, on which I was the rapporteur on more than one occasion, is the inspiration behind this new programme.
Erasmus has enabled a million students to study, and both programmes, which are mutually complementary, make it possible to gain an additional qualification abroad.
They also facilitate access to European languages, to European culture and to European values.
They are indispensable in terms of cultural understanding and dialogue, both of which have been mentioned a number of times today.
This means that the limited budget that we have must be replenished.
That is an obstacle.
There is also a lack of demand on the part of teachers, for whom there is the hindrance that what they do abroad is often not recognised at home.
With the new programmes, that are soon to follow, in mind, we have to give some thought to how we can really harmonise these programmes with each other.
I would also like to make another appeal that has not so far been heard today.
It is an appeal to the Convention, that these measures - Socrates, Erasmus, Erasmus Mundus - should not be merely support measures, but rather supplementary competences, which we value, and which constitute the heart of the European Union.
That is something you could find out if you were at last to talk with the public instead of constantly peering at your books!
