Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gill, Mr Mulder, this year is another in which our committee has concentrated its attention on the central issues of security on the external borders and complete freedom of movement, which are of great importance in terms of the finance allocated to the Budget areas within our committee's remit.
It is unfortunate that, this year again, I have to observe that we have still not progressed much further as regards the complete realisation of internal freedom of movement.
It is for that reason that we urgently need the requisite funds to secure our borders and defend ourselves against the trafficking of human beings.
We continue to need unambiguous common rules for legal immigration.
The reinforcement of Europol and Eurojust, along with the fight against terrorism, continue to be among the European Union's most urgent tasks.
Our objective remains what it always has been - the creation of a common judicial area, by which means alone we will succeed in winning the public over to enlargement and convincing them of its advantages.
It is with specific reference to enlargement that I want to draw attention today to the increasing cost of internal security in the European Union of the future.
The EU will have to spend a good deal more money on both Eurodac and Eurojust if we want, for example, to achieve an equally high standard of protection on the new borders when the EU has enlarged to include twenty-five states.
Schengen, too, will, in future, result in further increases of expenditure for the EU, which will, as I have said, have a total of 25 Member States.
What all this means is that the internal policy budget will have to be topped up if the European Union is to do justice to its objectives and tasks, and if the area of freedom, security and justice is not to have a merely theoretical existence.
It is for this reason that I appeal to my fellow Members to support the amendment we have tabled today on the guidelines for the 2004 Budget procedure and the amendments that will be brought in during the forthcoming debates on the Budget.
