Mr President, I would first like to convey to Mrs De Sarnez my most sincere congratulations.
In the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, we all caught from her an enthusiasm for this new and important project, and let me say loud and clear that our discussions of it brought us joy because we had a sense of playing our part in shaping the future.
So, as well as extending congratulations, let me also thank the Commission, and Commissioner Reding, for submitting this programme to us, so that together we are making a contribution to investing in Europe's future and in that of the younger generation.
I believe that Erasmus World is the logical continuation of the Erasmus programme, with which we are all familiar, and which has helped generations of young Europeans to get to know the other countries of the European Union as well as their own.
Erasmus World is now going one step further, both inwards and outwards.
Its inward dimension involves something that, even a few years ago, we would have thought impossible, namely that the European Union, and its Member States in particular, are willing, on the basis of their own decisions, of the Bologna Process and the Lisbon resolutions, to cooperate more intensively at university level.
An EU quality mark for Masters' courses - excellent!
This will bring us closer together, and, together, further forwards.
That makes this new programme an important step for us all in improving the situation as regards a shared European education.
In its second step, Erasmus World opens the way for postgraduate students from third countries to study at European universities.
That is what we want a forward-looking intercultural dialogue to involve.
Has there ever been a time when a contribution to this intercultural dialogue was more needed than in the present days and weeks?
So let me conclude by appealing to the Council in these terms: you cannot, in view of the terrible conflicts in Iraq, afford not to provide the necessary funds for this programme - which amount to at least the EUR 300 million that Parliament has called for!
All of us here are duty bound to take an especially responsible approach to investing in this area.
