Madam President, let me begin by saying that Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell is an outstanding candidate for this post.
It is quite obvious: she has great charisma, she has high-level and demonstrable expertise, and she has a wealth of experience in the field of monetary policy.
She meets all the requirements to perform her new role in the service of our monetary system and the euro.
What I particularly liked was that when she was responding to the questions from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, she excelled with her brief, concise and persuasive answers.
What is also important is that she supports the European Central Bank's basic policy direction, with price stability as the primary objective, and also the new shape of the European Central Bank's pillar structure.
Mr Goebbels, let me tell you that even the new constitution - in its present Article 21 - states that the European Central Bank must guarantee price stability as its primary objective.
Of course, it contributes to the achievement of the Union's other goals as well.
In this respect, the European Central Bank has performed outstanding work to date.
The euro is a stable currency at domestic level, while its value on the external markets is currently amazing almost the entire financial world.
What is more, the euro is already making a significant contribution to stabilising the world currency markets.
The Maastricht Treaty has also proved its worth inasmuch as re-election is not an option, which means that Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell will be appointed for eight years.
What is particularly appealing is the fact that we will have a lady as the successor to the outgoing female member from Finland; this demonstrates that we are attempting to ensure that women are appointed on an equal basis to high-level positions.
I am wholeheartedly committed to the central importance of the European Central Bank's objectives.
In Germany, the largest Member State in the monetary union, it would be a great mistake if we tried to address our acute problems through the simple but extremely dangerous strategy of taking on further debt and raising taxes.
Of course, I cannot rule out that the time may come when a further cut in interest rates, as part of the European Central Bank's policy on interest rates, may reduce the gap with rates in the United States and stimulate business investment and performance.
Since the candidate - as Mr Goebbels has indirectly pointed out - also meets the main requirements laid down in the Treaty, namely recognised standing and professional experience in monetary and banking matters, I believe that we can support her appointment with a clear conscience.
I would like to wish Mrs Tumpel-Gugerell every success, so that Europe can genuinely develop into what we need, namely the most dynamic economic area in the world, offering job opportunities for our young people.
