Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his very good report, parts of which are already finalised as no amendments have been tabled.
Although this has been a rather low-key debate today, this report has been the subject of very intensive discussions among Members of this House in recent days and, indeed, in recent weeks, not only in the meeting rooms.
It is obvious, after all, that a Commission communication on water management in developing countries will always trigger very heated and intensive debate.
The previous speaker spoke in great depth about the sensitivity of water as an issue in every part of the world.
The WTO Ministerial Conference, which is due to start within a matter of days in Cancún, naturally makes this debate even more topical; key issues in this context are, for example, the Commission's demands for the liberalisation of public services - which of course includes water management - and the situation with regard to the developing countries' freedom to decide for themselves in future how they supply these public services.
When we talk about water management in developing countries, it is obvious to me that the Commission, and the European Union, should be promoting sustainable water management.
One reason why I think Mr Lannoye's report is so good is that he focuses very directly, and also very critically, on the problems and obstacles standing in the way of sustainable water management.
He mentions intensive farming, which is predominantly export-driven, structural adjustment programmes imposed on countries in the past, which have weakened their public services, and he mentions the setting of wrong priorities in project funding.
I think that this is a very good signal to send out, and there are also very positive approaches in the Commission's current policies which aim to avoid these pitfalls in future.
As my group's shadow rapporteur, I am rather unhappy that we have not managed to achieve a unified position on Mr Lannoye's Amendment No 5, which takes a very critical line on the GATS requirements, which are obviously in place, and the Commission's calls for liberalisation.
However, let me reassure the rapporteur right away that I am working hard to ensure that as many of my colleagues as possible support him in making this demand.
He mentioned that he proposes to make a slight alteration to one amendment by Mr van den Berg.
I would ask Mr van den Berg to tell us about this himself.
I cannot do that here.
I would like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur once again for his good work.
