Mr President, let me, too, start by congratulating Mr Ebner on his report, in which, taking the positive experience of the European Year of Languages as his starting point, he highlights the growing awareness in Europe of the way in which languages bridge the gaps between cultures and cultures the gulfs that divide people, and points out that we must accordingly - if I may exaggerate to make a point - stop dreaming of the 'American model' of one language and no culture, instead really discovering in the diversity of our languages and cultures a keynote, something indeed of fundamental value for our future.
Knowing our neighbours' language and culture better means understanding them better and respecting them, and so I see language as performing an essential task in the sense that knowledge of other people's languages promotes peace.
If we look more closely into the trouble spots in and around Europe, we discover that a lack of respect for those who are different - which involves languages - has very often brought about the trouble in the first place and led to the situation in these places worsening.
I therefore see language as being about more than knowing and respecting others.
I see language as the best peacekeeping force that we in Europe can deploy.
The report makes clear, though, that, in an ever-expanding Europe, there is increasing awareness of regional cultures and also of regional languages.
Belonging as I do to the German-speaking community in Belgium, I can see that respecting this is not a luxury for those regions that enjoy autonomy, but something I regard as a European fundamental right.
It is for that reason that governments have - as we have just heard said - the primary task of guaranteeing the cultures of smaller regions and their right to have their voices heard.
We should then, at the European level, give consideration to what additional instruments we employ.
We appreciate Mr Ebner's work in representing us in this House.
We know that German is spoken in Italy and Belgium ?
