Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is certainly not often the case that we have such a consensus here in this House on such a complex issue.
I would therefore also like to thank Mr Menrad for incorporating the ideas, proposals and wishes of the Socialist Group, as well as my own as shadow rapporteur.
Employee participation in the ownership of productive wealth was actually a far more topical issue fifty years ago than it is today.
For this reason too, I think it is a good thing that in Europe, we are reviving this concept and these opportunities, and now that the internal market has been created, are giving employees this opportunity.
Nowadays, however, we are perhaps in a more difficult situation because we are in competition with other models for which state incentives must be provided, such as company and private pension schemes.
However, one thing must be clear to us all: models of employee part-ownership of productive wealth can only be implemented in practice if state incentives are provided.
These, of course, are more difficult to achieve at present.
The aim of this proposal, these ideas, the drafts and, perhaps at a later stage, a directive, is not only to create new jobs - although that is important.
Nor is the aim simply to raise productivity - although we naturally expect this as well.
No, the aim is also to achieve a more just distribution of added value.
We can only expect workers to show consideration for companies' profit levels or, indeed, exercise wage restraint if the distribution ratio between labour and capital is not shifted to their disadvantage.
We also agree with Mr Menrad that the primary task is not harmonisation but better coordination, more information and - as part of a directive, of course - a voluntary approach.
We expect employees to be protected from the risks associated with bankruptcies.
We expect the more problematic groups to be included as well, such as the small and medium enterprises - SMEs.
We expect low-wage workers and women who have a different working career, a different work situation, to be included too.
I am convinced that the Commission will take up all our ideas and, on that basis, will work with us to produce a more far-reaching initiative, perhaps next year, which can then lead to a more just distribution of productive wealth.
