Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the past year, it was important that confidence in Agenda 2000 should be maintained.
Today we deal with the further development of the common agricultural policy post-2006, taking into consideration world trade law, with the applicant countries participating as appropriate.
I emphasise that it is right at this time to make a serious and sustainable decision on the future of the common agricultural policy.
However, Commissioner, the parallelism of agricultural decision-making on the one hand, and the continuance of world trade discussions on the other also have a part to play here.
They can only be properly combined if the Commission adheres strictly to the whole package of WTO negotiations and allows no watering down in this case.
With this in mind I would like to say that Mrs Kinnock's comments with regard to the evaluation of the agricultural policy are an evaluation of the Agricultural Policy from 20 years ago.
If we do achieve a balance in development policy and commit all industrial nations to this, we have no reason to hide behind others.
Commissioner, you have always quite rightly said that only economically healthy businesses can be sustained in the long term.
The concept of sustainability does not have to be continually updated.
It is adequately and internationally defined and set out in Agenda 21.
The issue before us today therefore is in a sense to rework the Commission's proposals so that they are, if possible, more practical and more manageable, and at the same time to make the necessary adjustments without these adjustments asking too much of businesses or people.
Regarding the simplification of the agricultural policy, with regard to the thirty-eight directives named and the possibility of Member States implementing these administratively, I would ask that still more be done to avoid hardship cases so that the simplification of European agricultural policy also fully and completely respects the basic principle of non-discrimination.
