Mr President, the Ninth Protocol to the Act on Austria's accession to the EU stipulated that, between 1 January 1992 and 31 December 2003, the pollutants produced by heavy goods vehicles in transit were to be reduced by 60% on a long-term and sustainable basis.
That is primary legislation enacted by Austria and the EU.
Today, we have not achieved the 60% target, nor has any reduction in pollutants been either long-term or sustainable, facts observed both by the Commission and by the European Environmental Agency in its 68th technical report.
Instead, there has been a massive rise in the number of transit journeys, and the nuisance from pollution has increased by 52% in comparison to 1992.
The ecopoint regulation will lapse at the end of 2003, even though its objective, the sustainable reduction of these pollutants, has not been achieved.
As the transport infrastructure costs directive, often heralded by the Commission, has still not yet seen the light of day, a transitional solution was agreed on with Austria, having the form of a regulation on traffic from 2004 onwards.
This agreement must guarantee that there will be no further increase in emissions from transit traffic over against the 2003 levels.
Adoption of this report would have the opposite effect, that is, a dramatic increase in the levels of emissions from transit traffic.
The first thing to be said about the report is that it is worse than the Commission proposal, worse than the Danish council decision, and worse than the decision taken at the Laeken Council.
Secondly, the report entirely ignores the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy, which that body adopted by a large majority.
Thirdly, it goes counter to the objectives of the Kyoto Protocol and of the Alpine Convention, as well as to the European Union's environmental goals in general.
It is the primary task of the European Parliament to defend the interests of Europe's citizens.
If we fail in this task, the hard-hit public will do as they have already announced their intention of doing, and use road blockades in an attempt to secure their rights.
