Madam President, my dear Dagmar, I have to tell Mr Barnier that, when I came into the plenary, I was still in a good mood.
No doubt it is my fault that I have been unaware of your existence in recent years.
At any rate, you have had nothing to say for the whole of the debate on cosmetics, and, if you are going to go away today and say that everything went wrong, I cannot recall you having made any serious or creditable contribution to this debate.
My dear Dagmar, a veritable fanfare of compliments has been sounded in your honour today.
It is one in which I am happy to join.
Having done well, you have earned it, and it was our great good fortune to be allowed to spend whole nights in your company - and how many can boast of that?
Every directive has, of course, its pros and cons.
We have not yet slammed the door shut, but I believe that we have made a great advance by saying that the cut-off point will be at the end of a period of time - in 2009 as far as I am concerned.
I know perfectly well from my study of the market economy, Mr Barnier, that industry needs facts and data in order to be able to plan ahead - and there is nothing you can teach us on that score.
Today, industry will go away and take on young people - researchers, doctors, engineers - whose job will be to look for alternatives.
That is precisely what management needs, and that is why this is the right way to go.
Mr Liikanen, you know that, much as I respect you, your office sometimes puts forward wearisome proposals.
Now, though, you are on the right track, and I would like to give you strong encouragement to stand firm when it comes to the question of whether or not all this is acceptable to the WTO.
And stand firm you certainly will, for you know that the whole serried ranks of this House are behind you.
That means, I believe, that another solid success will be ours.
Ladies and gentlemen, I have no need of three minutes.
Europe and her people's representatives have grasped that animals are to be valued in a different way.
I cannot but go along with that, and we will do everything to ensure a respectable and credible reduction in the number of experiments on animals.
That there has to be, yet again, one small category in which such tests must still be carried out, is something that we accept, and that I believe to be necessary, but the great number of them must be brought down, never to increase again.
The victory is yours, Mrs Roth-Behrendt - congratulations!
