Madam President, the prohibition of the use of carcinogenic substances in cosmetics in the future is a great success for this Parliament.
We Greens have campaigned hard for this.
While this was a cause close to our heart, we also know that this position could never have gained majority support without great commitment on the part of the rapporteur, who made our demands her own.
So a great deal of gratitude is owed to Mrs Roth-Behrendt, particularly for this position, one that was of enormous importance to us.
It is my belief that the Council at first attempted to wait for a risk assessment, in order thereby to leave carcinogenic substances on the market.
That was utterly unacceptable, and we are therefore glad that the Council has abandoned its 'wait and see' approach, for there is no room in cosmetics for carcinogenic substances.
Not only is it obvious and a matter of common sense that nobody wants carcinogenic substances in face creams, but that is also the view of the Scientific Committee.
We are also very glad that, in future, hazardous ingredients will have to be listed, and their quantity stated, on cosmetic products, and we will certainly have to be very vigilant in monitoring the implementation of Parliament's demand for information on substances hazardous to health to be made accessible to the public, whether that be in a public register or by some other means.
Although it is a bitter pill for us to swallow that the current marketing ban is to be extended by another five years as regards eleven tests and deferred for ten years in respect of three others, this is still a great forward advance in view of the Member States' unwillingness to implement it and of the subsequent attempt at even completely abolishing the marketing ban, which we were successful in resisting.
There are now clear and realistic criteria for the development and marketing of alternative tests, so that Parliament can count this as one of its great triumphs, not only for animal welfare, but also for consumers.
