.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, honourable Members, overall, we are living through a very exciting time for the European Union, involving a great many changes, especially for the European Union's budget policy experts.
We are jointly preparing the historic 2004 budget - the first for a European Union of twenty-five Member States.
All the lights are now green, as the last referendum has also produced a positive result.
In most cases, the general public in the accession countries has said a resounding - indeed, a very forceful - 'yes' to the European Union.
Next year, the priority for policy-makers will be the successful launch of common policies in an enlarged Union.
Together, we - the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have put the conditions in place for this enlarged budget by adapting our financial planning to the needs of enlargement.
The budgetary framework for the next three years is therefore fixed and the 2004 draft budget naturally operates within this new framework as well.
Promoting stability in Europe and encouraging sustainable economic development - these are the further priorities for new initiatives in 2004.
They include, for example, immigration policy measures, the new Intelligent Energy for Europe programme, and measures to improve safety in the transport sector.
My fellow-Commissioners Mrs de Palacio, Mr Fischler, Mr Barnier and Mr Vitorino will tell you more in their own contributions about these initiatives and about the specific programmes which have recently been agreed, such as the financial assistance for the closure of nuclear power plants or the assistance with compliance with the Schengen Agreement, which, after all, are new initiatives for the accession countries.
Of course, my colleagues will be pleased to answer any questions posed during the course of the debate.
The Commission's priorities for the budget proposal are in fact very much in line with the priorities set for 2004 by the European Parliament and, indeed, the European Council.
It is a good procedure.
The method by which priorities are discussed and elaborated jointly at such an early stage has proved its worth.
This is undoubtedly one reason, Mr Wynn, why the budgetary procedure is no longer confrontational and has become far more constructive in tone.
I would like to convey my thanks to Mr Mulder, the general rapporteur, for his excellent cooperation, as well as to Mrs Gill, the rapporteur, and especially the chairman of the Committee on Budgets, Mr Wynn.
I would like to thank the other members of the Committee on Budgets and, of course, the other committees' budget policy experts as well.
I would also like to express my gratitude to the President-in-Office of the Council for his cooperation and the swift completion of the budget's first reading in the Council.
As far as it is possible to sum up the most recent budgetary procedures at this stage, I too would like to say that it really is time for the European Parliament to have a stronger role in the budget process, as envisaged, indeed, in the Convention's draft Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe.
I certainly do not share some finance ministers' fears that it would be contrary to budgetary discipline if this House had the final say on the overall budget.
On the contrary, my experience over recent years has shown quite clearly that Parliament fully respects the guidelines on budgetary discipline in its proposals and decisions.
The Commission's preliminary draft budget for 2004 envisages expenditure of EUR 100.7 billion.
The increase compared with this year would thus be 3.2%, which demonstrates that all the fears about enlargement being unaffordable were entirely groundless.
Indeed, next year's European public budget ratio will be even lower than this year's, showing that the necessary scope to fund enlargement has been created in the financial planning process.
At the same time, we can be certain that all the new Member States will be net recipients.
The fears of some new Member States that they would be net contributors are quite groundless, especially in view of the decisions that have already been taken, as well as the adjustment of the Financial Perspective and the proposals now on the table, which were not challenged by the Council in the first reading.
In its first reading, the Council made relatively few changes to the Commission's preliminary draft budget compared with previous years, and I would like to thank the Council for that.
However, there is one point where I must register the Commission's complete opposition, and that is on the issue of staff increases for the Commission.
We face the imminent prospect of enlargement and the accession of ten new Member States with 75 million people, and the Commission must guarantee, from the outset, the full integration of the new Member States by all the means at its disposal.
Surely it is obvious that more staff will be needed?
My fellow-Commissioner, Mr Kinnock, will take up this issue as well, and Mrs Gill will talk about the budgetary implications of the new Staff Regulations.
The Commission has certainly not been extravagant in its demands for new posts.
Indeed, we have examined the situation very carefully and calculated very tightly.
DG Budget, which is the directorate-general responsible, can be relied on to produce a very accurate calculation in this particular area.
The 780 new posts are the minimum required to manage integration.
I would like to thank Parliament for its very supportive position.
I will of course ensure that all the additional questions and requests for information which you may have at this time are answered in as much detail as you require, for I believe that it is also in Parliament's interest to ensure that the Commission functions effectively.
In the foreign policy field, we face a new challenge as a result of the situation in Iraq.
Next year, we must also launch a strategy for closer cooperation with our new neighbours, but also with the European Union's old neighbours, as part of a genuine neighbourhood policy.
Within the Union, the challenge we face is ensuring a new growth dynamic at a time when the general public also expects more vigorous measures to guarantee internal security.
We also intend to push through the successful implementation of our common policies, such as the agricultural policy, in an enlarged Union and help the new Member States make up substantial economic ground.
At the same time, we know that the Council is watching to make sure that there is no widening of the gap here.
It is everyone's task to do our utmost to ensure that enlargement is a success, that the Union offers the stability which is sought by old and new Member States alike, and that through sustainable growth, positive living conditions are safeguarded for every citizen of the Union.
Thank you for your attention.
