Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to congratulate the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport on their successful and fruitful open coordination!
Open coordination - it sounds like a really modern logo.
Coordinating political activities and political strategies requires a great deal of logic, and we are not always used to this in the work of politics.
It is really very welcome!
I had a few problems at home, trying to explain this open coordination to the Austrian public.
We do not yet have a tradition of this in the way the Scandinavian countries do, for example.
The first question people asked me at home was 'And what role does Parliament play in it?'
I had to explain to them everything I have heard here this evening, and everything we hear over and over again in the committees.
'Of course', the citizens said, 'not just out of respect for you as a Member of Parliament, and not only as a right that a Member of Parliament must assert for herself and on behalf of the population: we demand democratic legitimisation of this wonderful opportunity!'
Now, as to whether open coordination is indeed such a wonderful opportunity, as I have said, I have no experience to date; I am not yet a fan.
Neither am I sure that conversion to the Community method is really the recipe for solving matters.
I believe that we must look more closely at the details, which means that the three institutions must sit down at the table.
This does not mean an act of mercy towards the European Parliament, but open, fair negotiations among the three institutions.
It is all about the details: how is Parliament to be involved?
How are we to have access to documents?
What rules should we put in place?
If we really do make good progress in this regard, I may yet become a fan of open coordination.
In the field of culture, media, sport, education and youth, it would also be a possible step towards a kind of European cultural policy, but please do not misunderstand: I am in no way referring to harmonisation of national cultural policy, but rather to effective coordination of common policies in order to achieve common goals together.
Because, as we all know, we are simply not strong enough on our own - particularly in these sensitive areas.
This is the reason for my request, and I cannot repeat it often enough.
I believe that Parliament came close to speaking with one voice here.
This is what is expected of Europe in many areas.
Let the Commission consider us a partner and coordinate with us - openly!
