Mrs Van Lancker, yes, I must say that this is a particularly depressing question.
I also found the reports to which you refer deeply disturbing.
I read the report on the alleged forced sterilisation of women from the Roma minority in the Slovak Republic with great concern and consternation.
A practice of this kind would in fact constitute a serious violation of human rights if it were either ordered or at least tolerated by the state or any other public institution, or if the state were to refuse to investigate the accusations and call those responsible to account.
Immediately after this report appeared I therefore expressed my concerns to the Slovak Prime Minister, both verbally and in writing, and asking him to ensure that light was shed quickly on the accusations, which have been made by various human rights organisations.
I am very pleased to be able to tell you that the Slovak Government responded immediately and without hesitation.
The Deputy Prime Minister of the Slovak Republic responsible for human rights issues acted straight away to instigate the necessary steps under criminal law.
A special investigation team was set up.
This investigation team is supported by the Home Affairs Minister's advisor on Roma issues.
This Home Office advisor for Roma issues himself belongs to the Roma minority.
In addition, the government has invited the Vice-Chairperson of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly's Committee on Health to the Slovak Republic on a fact-finding mission.
In the meantime I have also received a written reply from the Slovak Prime Minister in which he assures me that there is no state-sponsored practice of this kind in the Slovak Republic, that the accusations are the subject of a meticulous investigation and that should they prove to be true the full force of the law will be brought to bear in taking action against the perpetrators.
I can assure you that the Commission will closely monitor the progress of the investigations.
Obviously we will do all we can to ensure that any abuses are remedied forthwith and that the necessary steps are taken under criminal law, should the accusations be true.
