Mr President, Commissioner, I have just learned that you would probably have been able to speak Letzeburgesh here this morning.
In contrast to Welsh and Basque, you would probably not have had to submit your speech beforehand.
We would have had it translated for us.
I would like to extend warm thanks to Mr Ebner for his initiative in producing this report.
Along with Mr Grosch, who has also already spoken, he represents linguistic minorities in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I think the South Tyrol and Eastern Belgium are, along with other places, successful examples of how minorities make for enrichment rather than for instability and also build bridges.
In Eastern Belgium and the South Tyrol, multilingualism can be heard, and, above all, seen.
This visible multilingualism is something we have not yet achieved in this Parliament building, where what we can read is all in one single language.
We find nonetheless, in our fifteen Member States and ten candidate countries, which are stable democracies, a repressive reflex towards minorities and their languages, mainly for reasons of history.
I want to make it perfectly plain that there are no separatist or extremist languages, but, if anything, only separatist or extremist people, with whom we have to deal by means of policy or the criminal law.
That is why linguistic minorities as such cannot be generally suspected of imperilling the unity of the nation by using their language.
For this reason, I find it quite incomprehensible that not all Member States have ratified the Charter for Regional or Minority Languages and the Council of Europe's framework convention on the subject.
I would call on those states that have not yet done this to do so.
It will not endanger their national unity or territorial integrity.
Those who have problems with this leave themselves open to the suspicion that they are very insecure and believe it self-evident that their own language and culture can only be safeguarded by restricting others rather than through their own attractiveness.
I would urge a bit more boldness on those who still hesitate.
