Mr President, honourable Members, I wish to make a statement on behalf of the Commission.
The Commission is greatly concerned about the Turkish authorities' most recent raid on the offices of the Human Rights Association in Ankara, in the course of which documents and other material were seized.
The persecution of associations such as this one is difficult to understand at a time when, as has happened recently, political reforms have taken place and the fundamental rights of free expression of opinion and freedom of association have been extended.
The Commission has mentioned similar cases in its regular reports, and it takes the view that such incidents are contrary to the objectives of current efforts at reform.
This demonstrates anew how great a gulf there is between political reforms on the one hand and, on the other, the attitude taken by the executive and the judiciary to their implementation.
In connection with this, I would like to emphasise that the implementation of these reforms will be a determining factor in evaluating to what extent the Copenhagen political criteria have been fulfilled.
I will be pointing this out to the Turkish foreign minister, Abdullah Gül, when I have talks with him on Thursday in Brussels.
I have information to the effect that the Turkish minister of justice has, in the meantime, publicly expressed regret for the what the Turkish authorities did in the offices of the Human Rights Association, acknowledging at the same time the great importance of political reforms being implemented across the board.
He also made it clear that any future recurrence of such incidents would not be tolerated.
I would like to expressly draw attention to the fact that the Turkish Human Rights Association enjoys the Commission's active support, having, in the period from 1992 to 1999, had funds to a total of EUR 309 000 made available to it.
Further funding is planned for as part of measures to support fulfilment of the political criteria.
Only recently, on 25 March, the Commission submitted a revised communication on an improved pre-accession strategy for Turkey.
I cannot do other than re-emphasise at this point how vitally important it is that Turkey should, fully and without exceptions, implement all legal reforms as part of everyday practice.
At the end of the day, that is the yardstick by which Turkey's fitness for accession will be assessed.
Human rights organisations must be able to do their work without hindrance, and their activities will continue to be supported by the Commission in future.
Thank you.
