Mr President, the thirty-nine data elements that we have been dealing with today can be divided into three categories.
Firstly, superfluous data, the storing of which has already - in the GDR and elsewhere - caused intelligence services and whole states to collapse.
In the interests of the fight against terrorism this data should not be saved.
Secondly, useful data which would, on entry, be removed anyway.
This data can be used in an appropriate and legal manner.
Thirdly, however, there is sensitive data, on which we need precise rules, and which must either not be recorded, saved and passed on at all, or it must at least be deleted after a deadline, after the person leaves the USA.
Although we are all vehement advocates of the fight against terrorism, terrorism cannot be fought with anarchy, but rather in two ways.
Firstly on the basis of the law, and this - rather than arbitrariness - we should step up.
I regret to say that at the moment in transatlantic relations there is arbitrariness regarding these questions of data, and an absence of any legal basis.
Secondly we can fight international terrorism only on the basis of trust between the USA and Europe, trust that was damaged through both sides apportioning blame and must be re-established.
Trust can only arise when genuinely transparent rules are created, ones that the public can understand, otherwise we will fuel mistrust of both the USA and the European Union itself.
Commissioner, I do not think that we can wait until international rules are in place, nor can we rely on the current fifteen and future twenty-five Member States implementing the law.
It is much more a fluke that the Commission, with you as a spokesman for the European Union, which will soon have more inhabitants than the USA and Russia together and must be a partner of the USA, is acting on this important issue, but intentionally and on the basis of the law.
Therefore, Mr President, I would like to call out to the Commission: be tough in your conduct of the negotiations, Mr Bolkestein!
Be firm, or be tough on these important questions of trust and the law!
