Mr President, the worst thing about this situation in Venezuela is that the two sides have stopped talking to each other.
Their inability to enter into a dialogue is causing society, and even the State itself to fragment, leaving behind a vacuum that other undemocratic groups are only too eager to fill.
At this stage I should therefore like to draw your attention to the fact that an initiative has emerged from the Latin American Parliament and the European Parliament to form a joint group, to establish a dialogue with Members of Parliament on both sides in Venezuela and in this way also to support the efforts of the Group of Friends of Venezuela to bring the two sides together.
I hope that it will eventually be possible for us to build this bridge.
Incidentally, I suspect that given the current crisis in Iraq, the longer this conflict lasts the more likely it is that the oil involved will lead the United States to call for action to be taken.
The fact that well over 10% of America's oil comes from Venezuela is not without its consequences for them, or for the other countries of Latin America either, because rises in the price of oil are due, at least in part, to the situation in Venezuela.
The man in the street in the countries of Latin America is the one who will pay.
Apart from getting the two sides talking, what else is to be done?
I think that sooner or later we will have no alternative but to let the people decide.
Here, though, I think it is important to keep the constitution as a basis, because despite all of its shortcomings the validity of this constitution has not been contested.
Latin America's reputation for not respecting constitutions goes before it.
This is all the more reason for us to ensure that where a constitution is actually recognised at international level, we do stick to it.
If it is to be amended then it should be with the agreement of both sides to perhaps enable elections to be held at an early stage.
But as I see it the only way out seems to be for the people to decide, and no one else!
