Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that the European educational programmes need only to be developed further rather than needing to be replaced by new ones is a point in their favour, especially in an age of globalisation and technological change.
They have proved their worth in such a way, and have been so successful, that we only have to adapt them to the new structures.
The structure of eLearning is the same as in the example we were given earlier, Erasmus Mundus.
We are all familiar with the Comenius programme within the great Socrates programme framework, which is about cooperation between at least three schools from different Member States.
This programme is extraordinarily successful, achieving a high degree of efficiency with relatively meagre resources and great commitment on the part of both teachers and students.
So I think it is tremendous that we have managed to use the eLearning Programme to strengthen this area of technology-supported school partnership.
We have, unfortunately, always had to decry the lack of sufficient funds for mobility for existing Comenius schools, and now, thanks to technology, mobility is being multiplied, albeit in the virtual realm.
That cannot, and must not, become more than an additional area.
Whilst it cannot be a substitute for real encounters between people, it can be an immense help to our schools in building up a real awareness of the Europe that we share.
That is why I also enthusiastically welcome our desire to increase the estimate to 40%, and I would like to point out that, quite apart from bridging the digital divide, it is extraordinarily important not to lose sight of the need to develop European software.
Of the software used in Europe, 80% originates in the USA.
Whilst I am a friend of the Americans in bad times and good, I would like to see a more equal balance in the field of software, and so what I ask of the Council, not only as regards this programme, but also the other technological programmes, is that they keep an eye on the development and enhancement of European software and facilitate the support and promotion that this needs.
