Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by making it abundantly clear, on behalf of my group, that we find this raid unacceptable, and we are of course protesting against the fact that police officers and a public prosecutor from the State Security Court in Ankara have been able to take such action in the first place.
We take it for granted that the Turkish Government, in a case such as this, will act in an exemplary way and sort the matter out.
It is quite proper that we should be discussing this here this evening, but I think we should avoid making the mistake of playing the game the way the hawks in Turkey expect us to.
What is actually going on in Turkey at the moment is that the opponents of the EU within the state apparatus, who continue, regrettably, to wield a great deal of power, are full of fear of Turkey ever joining the European Union, when they will no longer be allowed to do those things that have been permitted to them until now.
It is these forces within the apparatus of the Turkish state who have a natural interest in exploiting every opportunity and engage in provocative behaviour as often as possible.
On the day in question, 6 May, a meeting had actually been planned between non-governmental organisations, the Turkish foreign minister, and the minister responsible for human rights issues.
It was on the afternoon of that day that the raid was carried out.
This shows that those forces that actually want to use all available means to create a different mood in Turkey, had deliberately chosen this day to mount an operation that we would regard as unacceptable, with the resultant situation inducing us to hold this evening's debate, in which Turkey would yet again be the subject of much adverse comment, and we would end up doing a favour for those who do not want to see European democracy in Turkey.
The one fact of which we have to take note is that Turkey at present has a government that wants to carry out necessary reforms, and is making the effort to do so; it responded to this raid by saying that everything possible would be done to resolve this case.
For this reason, I would like to ask my fellow Members of this House to help and support those in Turkey who are really campaigning for democracy and human rights, and, when faced with provocations such as this, to be very careful in what they do and not allow themselves to be provoked and misused by the wrong side.
