Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Trakatellis and Mrs Scheele have produced a comprehensive piece of work, which should make for better information and greater transparency, as well as helping European consumers to enjoy freedom of choice.
Consumers have to know what they are buying and what they are eating.
Effective, reliable legal framework conditions for authorising, labelling and tracing GMOs need to be created as soon as possible.
Both regulations, along with the lifting of the de facto moratorium on authorisation, are crucial to the implementation of a forward-looking strategy for European biotechnology, demands for which Parliament endorsed at the beginning of this year.
The moratorium impedes the progress of green biotechnology in the European Union, and, in particular, both damages Europe's innovative SMEs and stands in contradiction to the Lisbon objectives.
The room for action set out in compromise motion No 1 on the Scheele report is desirable.
We must, however, ensure that, if individual Member States decide to go their own way, this does not frustrate the aims of this regulation by interfering with the common internal market.
When it comes to the adventitious and technically unavoidable presence of GMOs in non-genetically-modified products, we need rules that work in practice.
In the final analysis, as we all know, every threshold value we set is arbitrary, but the 0.9% threshold value provided for in the Common Position is reasonable and helps to guide manufacturers and consumers.
The threshold value is important in terms of different types of cultivation being able to coexist, as, in the natural world, there are no techniques for preventing such things as cross-pollination.
The most important yardstick by which the new legislation must be judged must be the practicability of its framework conditions, which must, in particular, be in line with WTO rules and must not allow excessive bureaucracy to hamper the development of biotechnology in Europe.
Above all, they must help to inform consumers and protect them.
