Mr President, Commissioner, although I often agree with you, this is one occasion when I do not, as I take the view that you ought to have intervened at a much earlier stage.
I have just heard impressive speeches to the effect that equal quotas in Europe are unfair.
At that, I cannot but laugh; why, then do we have them?
In Europe, we have to have comparable rules, and the ground rules have to be interpreted in such a way that the Member States can make a start.
I was here in 1994 - as was Mrs Jackson - when we adopted the directive.
If my schoolboy maths serves me well, that was twelve years ago.
There are Member States that, since that day, have simply sat with their arms folded and done nothing whatever.
This morning, I was at a big event in Frankfurt, along with several hundred others.
They gave me a good telling-off and said to me, 'Florenz, why are we, in Germany, in the Netherlands, in Belgium, in a number of Nordic countries, keeping in step and implementing these rules, while, elsewhere, they are doing nothing at all?
You are a poor representative of your country if you allow this sort of thing to go on'.
I have to tell you, Commissioner, you are the guardian of the laws, and you have to intervene at a much earlier stage.
Mrs Corbey, I see it as almost shameful that we should be starting a dispute in this House as to whether the starting date should be 2008 or 2007.
That is not what all this is about!
What matters is that we should heighten awareness among the public and in the Member States of the fact that a recycling strategy means that resources are conserved, and that when we talk about the conservation of resources, we are talking about our children's capital.
In Europe, that has to be organised on a Community basis.
I very much sympathise with those who say 'yes' to this, but are worried about the export issue.
With my liberal approach, I do not go as far as that, but when it comes to exports, we cannot have the situation in which enterprises here develop recycling strategies, and then export the materials.
Such a thing would surely be false.
While I, of course, have sympathy with Member States that sort out care for the elderly before dealing with the packaging directive, I do accept that this is the rule.
