Mr President, I would like, first of all, to thank the Commission for its explanations and then also all the members of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport, especially the coordinators, who were able to find a solution to this issue, something that the short time available made a matter of urgency.
In order to clarify my - perhaps somewhat over-simplified - statement to the effect that broadcasting companies were more consumers than creators, I would like to add that this is not a value-judgment, but simply a statement of fact.
They are both consumers and creators, but not exclusively so, and even so they can enjoy protection at international level, which film performers cannot.
On this I agree absolutely with Mrs Hieronymi.
This is a loophole that we should close, and I am glad that the various powers are making a united effort to do this.
When we talk about this international protection for audiovisual performers that we desire, what do we mean by it?
This is, primarily, about their moral rights.
Imagine that one of your speeches here in plenary were to be used without your authorisation, in a modified form, or perhaps even misused; as its author, you would be able to defend yourself, but, as a performer, you would have hardly any options, and only rarely the right to do anything about it.
A second aspect, and an important one, is the use of names.
It is of immense importance to any creative artist that he should be able to put his name to his work, even if he is a mere cog, a part of the whole.
That is every bit as important to performers, including those outside the European Union.
Now, although one does not perhaps have to worry as much about the likes of Hugh Grant as about the thousands who are less prominent, even national film celebrities sometimes go through bad years, when it just happens that they are not on set for a single day all year.
That may be the luck of the artist and something that one cannot do anything about, but the rent still has to be paid.
What would help them is something to which they do, in fact, have every right - to have a share in the added value of successful productions - whether this be through the practice of buy-outs, through appropriate remuneration, or by way of the options that are open to us in the European Union.
I do think that all the audiovisual performers outside the EU, who do not enjoy these rights, are waiting expectantly for a signal from us.
I am glad that we are fighting this battle side by side, and I wish you good luck, or, to put it in thespian language: break a leg!
May the exercise be a success!
