Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Redondo Jiménez is right to say that, according to Article 3 of the Commission proposal, a farmer in receipt of direct payments has to comply with the basic requirements of farm management in accordance with Annex 3 of the proposal and has to ensure that the land is kept in good agricultural condition.
This is intended to guarantee that farmers that receive direct support comply with binding EU standards on the environment, food safety, animal health, animal protection and also safety in the workplace and that they keep their land in good agricultural condition in accordance with good agricultural practice.
The EU standards included in these basic requirements have all been legally binding for a long time; they are nothing new.
This Commission proposal cannot therefore directly create any additional costs.
Furthermore, the measures that are available to Member States under rural development have been extended to include instruments to improve quality and also achieve better animal protection.
In the context of these newly proposed measures to achieve compliance with standards, farmers can receive aid for a new standard for five years, if applying it involves additional costs and obligations for the farmer.
The aid that is granted for applying a particular standard is limited in time, but the measure itself is not.
As far as funding the measures on rural development is concerned, by introducing modulation the Commission is also laying the foundations for increasing the relevant budgetary funds.
Despite our efforts to secure the future of European farmers and promote important European trade interests, one of the most important objectives of the European proposals made in January for the WTO negotiations is that in the current negotiating round non-trade-related matters - such as food safety or the protection of designations of origin, or animal and environmental protection - be treated on an equal footing.
The Commission has already responded several times in no uncertain terms to the first proposal of modalities for the agriculture negotiations that was tabled on 12 February by Mr Harbinson, and it will continue to defend the European negotiating position.
