Mr President, this report on women in rural areas is well-timed, as the role and position of women in agriculture and rural areas will become even more important in view of the fundamental change in the system of the common agricultural policy to which the agriculture ministers more or less agreed when they met in Luxembourg last week.
Now, at last, there will be improved opportunities for giving support in this area, although, of course, for the farmers whose income is to be cut, this is no substitute and not much of a comfort.
This is where women will come into their own, having, as is well known, a greater flexibility and more imaginative approach when it comes to taking on new tasks that can bring in some additional income.
This does of course depend on the right framework conditions being in place, and also on gender mainstreaming - or, to put it in comprehensible terms, equality of opportunity for men and women.
Serious attention needs to be given to this in this context, so that new potential sources of income can be opened up in labour, marketing, tourism and culture - areas in which women are especially efficient, and in relation to which there are many sensible suggestions in the report by Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou, whom I thank most warmly for her work.
I am particularly grateful that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, in its opinion, harks back to my 1997 report on the situation of assisting spouses of the self-employed in agriculture.
Six years have passed since this House called upon the Commission to cause an amendment to be made to the 1986 directive on the application of the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity, including agriculture.
I regret that the Commission has taken no specific action in response to this report.
As Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf has just reminded us, we did, for example, demand the registration of working married couples, so that they would no longer be invisible in the labour force.
If I might say one last thing, Mr President, if you want to do something to keep women in rural areas, you have to ensure that they suffer no discrimination either as regards fair payment for their work or as regards social security.
We want and need mandatory insurance specifically for the millions of assisting spouses, and this is where I might, perhaps, recommend Luxembourg's approach as exemplary.
(The President cut off the speaker)
