Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that the war currently raging in Iraq is the USA's private war.
It has too many repercussions for that, not only on the surrounding region, but also on Europe.
This also means that it is otiose to wonder whether it might perhaps have been possible to prevent it.
Saddam Hussein himself could certainly have prevented it, if he had kept to at least one of the seventeen resolutions passed by the UN Security Council.
It would also have been one of his primary duties to give his people, whom he had decimated with weapons of mass destruction, the chance of a decent existence as human beings by ensuring that the sanctions imposed on his country could be lifted.
We can but hope and try to do whatever we can to prevent these innocent people from having to pay a high price for this regime and for the war it has caused.
I can also understand why many people take to the streets in a kind of impotent rage, believing as they do that warfare cannot, in the twenty-first century, be a legitimate political tool.
I can also sympathise with the Catholic Church and the Pope, whose attempts right up to the last moment to prevent armed conflict were, in the final analysis, motivated by concern for the Christian minority in Iraq, and were, alas, rewarded by no more success.
Diplomacy stood not the least chance of success, and all the peacekeeping institutions that arose out of the aftermath of the Second World War - the UN, NATO, the European Union - have sustained damage.
For us Europeans, there is just one question left to be answered, and that is whether we still have the desire to influence the course of world history or whether we want to opt out.
If we are to stay in, the first thing that will be needed is a reshaping of the trans-Atlantic relationship, and the second will be a definition of the fields of action in which the European Union has to assume responsibility in the context of security policy.
This should also determine what resources are allocated to enable such a policy to be actually implemented.
Any policy must in any case be founded upon the common interests of all, and must enable Europe to be one of the poles in a multipolar world.
