Mr President, neither at the international or global level - as shown by the Iraq crisis - nor at the European level, can we avoid dealing with Russia, and this is only right.
We need Russia as a partner, and I believe deeper cooperation with it to be both desirable and worth striving after, for the Russians should understand the enlargement of the European Union not as a hostile act, but as an opportunity.
As has been frequently said, borders shift and change, and one of the consequences of enlargement is that we will be sharing borders with Russia.
The resolution, under the Danish Presidency, of the problem with the Russian enclave of Kaliningrad - the former Königsberg - is very much to be welcomed.
Now there is also to be a new summit on 31 May, an EU-Russia summit on the occasion of the 300th anniversary of the founding of St Petersburg.
There has since 1999 been a common strategy, whose cornerstones are meant to be democracy, the rule of law, further integration into a European economic and social area and general enhancement of security and stability in Europe, along with reforms in the energy sector and the shared struggle against organised crime.
Russia does not aspire to membership of the European Union, which would go against its conception of itself as a major power.
The European Union should seek genuine cooperation with Russia, which would, not least, involve the European Investment Bank being allowed more opportunities for activity in Russia, an idea put forward by, among others, Mr Schüssel, the Austrian Chancellor, who propounded it in a letter to President Prodi of the Commission.
If Russia were to ratify the agreement with the European Investment Bank, which agreement is oriented towards the Northern dimension, the Russians would at once have billions of euros at their disposal, which would make it possible for a fair amount of nuclear waste to be disposed of.
As far as Chechnya is concerned, it is clear that we must demand that human rights be respected, just as much as we must condemn terrorism, which again claimed civilian victims only a few days ago.
Diplomacy, however, is what is called for here, in order to break the spiral of violence and responses to violence.
