Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that Mr Le Pen is applying the yardstick in not quite the right way.
If anyone is a mass murderer, it is Saddam Hussein; of that there is no doubt.
The question is by what means he may be disarmed.
We have to make clear the necessity of using every possibility of a peaceful solution, no matter how difficult that may be in the days that remain to us.
I am very grateful to the Greek Presidency of the Council for having, despite the behaviour of many Member States of the European Union over recent weeks and months, summoned a special summit, in order that, in what one almost has to call a free-for-all in the European Union, we may seize the opportunity to pause for a moment and consider where there might be common ground, where we can still join in playing our part, in order to make a positive contribution.
I hope that they will be supported by many Members of this House and that Monday's summit will meet with the success it deserves, so that Europe does not end up looking foolish on the sidelines of this dispute.
I think it is important to see that there must be no emotional reflex actions.
Although historical parallels are never a good idea, I sometimes get the feeling that we are in something like the summer of 1914, and so I believe that we all have to engage in renewed dialogue with each other, so that we Europeans, being united on the essentials, can take our place in the negotiations on the final United Nations resolution, which must aim to make good use of every opportunity for peace, whilst at the same time making it clear that Saddam Hussein has to be disarmed.
If the relevant United Nations resolution makes it possible for this to be done by force if need be - but only if we avoid unilateralism - then we have a chance of doing this.
But the use of force can be avoided only if Europeans present a united front.
All those who have violated this unity have also thrown away Europe's chance of playing a part in this dispute.
