Mr President, Commissioner, there have been many speeches this afternoon about the financing of EU agricultural policy.
In my opinion, the overall situation over recent years has been much more favourable for consumers than for farmers.
I never tire of saying that the proportion of outgoings spent on food by the citizens of the European Union has fallen continuously over recent decades.
There are hard figures indicating that those who, decades ago, spent 40% of income on food, now spend approximately 14%, so foodstuffs are not surplus junk and, with EU support, the farmers produce them and look after the countryside perhaps even far more cheaply than municipal farms could do it.
My idea of the European agriculture model has remained unchanged for years.
I would like farmers in the European Union to continue to perform the dual task of producing high quality products and caring for and maintaining the cultural landscape.
In my opinion, therefore, we should really now be using the debate on common agricultural policy to ensure that this task can be performed in the long term in difficult locations not only in Germany but in all European regions.
There has been much discussion today about your proposals, Commissioner, but, if I have understood you correctly, there are one or two places where you have allowed for a certain readiness to compromise, and this affects decoupling.
The agriculturalists in my parliamentary party are demanding clear differentiation between arable and animal production.
I therefore regard as eminently important the consistent continued development of common agricultural policy and also quantity-oriented market policy for milk.
Commissioner, I am convinced that we should now decide - as you have always said.
The parliamentary reports are available and I am very keen to know what the Council will make of them.
We should really use this negotiation capital.
Finally, I would therefore like to encourage you to follow our suggestions.
If we all fight together it will produce the best results for agriculture and I am someone who would really like to defend you out there.
I cannot imagine what interest you could have in initiating something unsuitable.
(Applause)
