Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Vitorino is right to say that this represents a first attempt at laying down unified rules on legal immigration by workers and the self-employed.
I also take a favourable view of much of the detailed proposals, such as the - obvious - possibility of limitation by the Member States, which would make it possible to stipulate how many of which types of workers should be allowed to enter the European Union, or the deportation of offenders, the proof of financial resources and so on.
There are a lot of good things in the proposal, but we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have two basic problems with it.
In our view, the proposal exceeds, firstly, the legislative competence of the European Union.
Whilst the Treaty establishing the European Communities provides specific rules on immigration, the attempt is made here to lay down a general rule of the European Union.
We want the principal competence to remain where it is - with the Member States - and we want the European Union to make rules on matters within its remit, specifically on what provision - such as working visas and appropriate controls - is to be made for the entry of third-country nationals into the European Union, and on what rules should then apply to their freedom of movement within it.
That is the present situation, and that is the way it should stay.
The approach contained in the Commission proposal is equally ill-chosen, as it is based on the assumption that immigration is generally necessary.
It is, however, an established fact that the situation varies in every respect from one Member State to another, both as regards the qualifications needed by workers who want to enter the country and the extent to which immigration is needed.
From that assumption you deduce that immigration is a right, and an actionable one at that.
Such a thing exists nowhere on earth, and we do not want to have it in future either.
And when this proposal is developed by the addition of proposals originating in the committee, the report goes so far that we cannot vote in favour of it.
Where entry into the EU is concerned, we want framework principles; what we do not want, though, is a general rule that largely pushes back the competence of the Member States!
