Madam President, the European Parliament and the Council have designated 2004 as the European Year of Education through Sport.
That in itself is sufficient reason for an own-initiative report describing access to the practice of sport as a fundamental right, which it is quite right to do.
Sport from a young age is character-building and fosters self-confidence, and for women, that always means emancipation.
Sport tests and overcomes personal limits, not only for the individual woman but also in the team, where together, results can be achieved which amount to far more than just the individual performances.
What is more, sport teaches people how to treat others more considerately and how to involve those with a disability: an important contribution to social integration.
This makes it all the more incomprehensible when women are denied access to sport for social or cultural reasons.
I recall the Olympic Games in Atlanta in 1996.
At that time, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats here in this House, I objected to the discrimination by Muslim states that had prohibited women from taking part because they had refused to comply with one specific rule.
They wanted to take off their headscarves and the clothing which impeded them while running.
They were prevented from doing so at that time.
I hope, Mrs Karamanou, that there will be no repetition of this in Athens.
As I am sure you know, at that time the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats abstained in the vote in the Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities.
The main reason was that as long as we have no powers at European level, no new administration could be established in the Commission.
Mrs Diamantopoulou pointed out that European funding could, however, be mobilised, for example from EQUAL or DAPHNE or research programmes.
Some of the points raised were really pedantic, for example when it was claimed that opening hours at sports facilities were not in line with women's interests.
We cannot make such sweeping generalisations.
Quite a lot has happened.
Mrs Zissener has pointed out that we cannot force the television channels to broadcast women's sporting events.
However, this will be regulated by the market.
I come from the media sector, and we have clearly witnessed the positive developments taking place for women here.
Women are certainly not under-represented in the media now.
In advertising, they have become well-established role models - such as the many female personalities from athletics, skiing, tennis or swimming - which is very gratifying.
Quite rightly, they have broken down the barriers to an increasing number of sports, even women's football, which I think is a very attractive sport.
There is just one sport of which I am not a fan, and that is women's boxing.
Otherwise, however, major advances have been made, and that is extremely positive.
There is one point on which I am sure we all agree: now that some of the amendments we proposed are acceptable from the Group of the European People's Party's perspective and could also be included in tomorrow's vote, we agree that wherever discrimination occurs, it must not only be identified but above all vigorously combated.
Sport is undoubtedly a key area in this respect.
