Mr President, Commissioner, I have always been passionately in favour of voluntary agreements, and I accept that we lost them at first reading stage.
That is why I am every bit as happy as you are about this marvellous package that Mr Moreira da Silva has put on the table after the most enormously hard work - something that I can confirm to my own group.
I think we are on the right track.
The reason why the compromise is so important is that, if we do not adopt it tomorrow, we will not know for some considerable time what will emerge from the conciliation procedure.
Apart from that, I am quite certain that we will then waste another year, and that is precisely what we do not want.
This really is about how future generations will live, and, although I am very keen on conciliation procedures, we should dispense with one and give the Council a great opportunity to follow where we lead.
On this issue, the Olympic spirit is not enough; simply joining in is not on.
All the Member States must make the utmost effort; even today, we can already see that some of them are having problems with this 'trend-line'.
On that, Commissioner, I am again in agreement with you.
You must see to it that they all play their part.
Some will be able to do more than others; there is no doubt about that, but they must all join in, and then we will get the right result.
I am, however, again astonished at how, silently and overnight, other sectors have been dropped from this directive.
That was a first-class demonstration of the Member States' weakness and lack of courage when it came to developing an approach according to which both transport and personal house fires - such as we have in our own homes - would in future be covered by the Kyoto Protocol.
I would very much have liked that, but it presupposes very tough politicians - of which there do not seem to be that many in the Council.
I believe that we have made a good start by taking 1990 as the initial reference year, and I hope that, with joint implementation, and also with CDMs, we are on the right track.
Even though we have not yet precisely defined the package, I do believe that we will, tomorrow, adopt it by a large majority.
Many thanks, Mr Moreira da Silva.
