Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking Mr Bowis for this really excellent report.
This House welcomes the Commission communication and urges the Commission and the Member States to make their contributions to achieving the Millennium Development Goal of halving by 2015 the proportion of people without sustainable access to safe drinking water, especially given that around three million people die every year from water-borne diseases.
If we look at the Commission's ambitious goals, they deserve Parliament's full and unequivocal support.
The EU has undertaken to reach the development aid target of 0.39% of GDP on average for all EU Member States by 2006.
At the International Conference on Financing for Development in Monterrey in March 2002, it was agreed that each of the current EU Member States would by 2006 increase the proportion of GDP spent on development to at least 0.33%.
Yet taking the Federal Republic of Germany as an example, we can see that unfortunately, this is likely to remain a utopian ideal.
Germany vigorously rejected, to the very last, any increase in spending, claiming that this was incompatible with budget discipline.
This shows that ultimately, the Federal Government's economic policy failures are the cause of inadequate development assistance.
Only yesterday, I saw that the German Minister of Development states on her website that 0.27% of GDP is currently allocated to development assistance.
This must seem like pure mockery to the people affected, who followed what happened at the World Summit on Social Development in Copenhagen as long ago as 1995 and trusted the pledge that 0.7% of GDP would be spent on official development assistance.
The only conclusion we can draw is that it is hard luck for anyone who relies on development pledges!
It is a sign of political bankruptcy - indeed, it is a political debtor's oath - that at the same time, real expenditure has decreased by more than 500 million euros from 1990 to 2001.
Yet we live in an era when Volkswagen, for example, has to appoint three apprentices to every training place in the developing countries because two out of three die during training, either from Aids or from other - water-borne - diseases.
UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan said in Monterrey, and I quote with your permission, Mr President, 'If the industrialized countries do not double development assistance, the forces of envy, despair and terror will continue to grow'.
Let me add to this: these forces will impact on Europe too.
That, not least, must be avoided!
