Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to congratulate Mr Bösch on his excellent report.
He is renowned for his thoroughness and persistence, which have so often been the hallmark of the Committee on Budgetary Control in the past and which in fact led to OLAF being set up in the first place.
Parliament has proved its worth as a very worthy guardian of the interests of the public and has initiated an administrative reform of which it can be proud.
There is no doubt that OLAF could sometimes be more transparent, and I accept the criticisms expressed about that, including those of Mr Casaca.
There is also no doubt that the public should sometimes be given information about OLAF at an earlier stage and more openly, as OLAF needs to publicise itself more.
Nevertheless, I believe that we as Members should also stress that OLAF is a success story.
What would have become of Eurostat without OLAF?
What would have become of Eurostat without the courageous witnesses who have gone to OLAF and been able to make statements?
That issue is still being pursued today.
Looking back to what happened in 1999, it has to be said that it was UCLAF, OLAF's predecessor, which attempted at the time to play the matter down, and OLAF - demonstrating once again that the switch from UCLAF to OLAF was right - has grasped the opportunity with both hands to get this issue back on the agenda and to find a solution to the Eurostat problem.
Nevertheless, and I think that this is a point we can all agree upon, it is clear that there are major problems about continuing to follow up the Eurostat case.
It is clear that without the second step that must finally be taken now, by which I mean the step of setting up a European Public Prosecutor's office, it will repeatedly be left to the Member States to decide what measures to take.
I therefore wish to take this opportunity to make a very clear appeal to the Convention to have the courage to take that positive step.
I fear that the Member States themselves will not have the courage.
Without the Convention we cannot hope to succeed in this, and we need a European Public Prosecutor to turn the administrative reform we have initiated with OLAF into a real success story.
