Mr President, in the last few weeks, we have switched between hope and despair almost on a daily, even hourly basis.
Nonetheless, we - and by that I mean Europe and the USA - must remain faithful to the implementation of the Roadmap.
It is as much an American plan as a European one.
Indeed, we pressed hard - and I thank Mr Solana and Mr Patten for this - for the publication and then for the implementation of this Roadmap.
Now, as some speakers have already said, there is a chance of achieving peace only if we both adopt a joint approach.
I do not take the view that Europe is acting unilaterally if it puts appropriate pressure on both sides - on Israel and the Palestinians.
We need a viable and secure state both for Israel and for Palestine.
That needs to be recognised.
We do not want violence from the other side - and Mr Nordmann, if I recall the debate in committee, what else is the settlement activity, which is illegal under international law, but violence?
The construction of the wall is appalling violence, profoundly affecting people's living conditions and even their lives.
Of course, the same applies to the horrifying acts of terrorism, for which I have no sympathies whatsoever.
We made it clear to the Iranians with whom we spoke yesterday in particular that any form of sympathy with, or indeed, acceptance of terrorism cannot be tolerated by Europe.
Above all, however, terrorism is one thing: it is self-destructive.
Any society based on terrorism already bears the taint of violence within itself.
What we certainly need is support for Palestine's security.
The Palestinian Authority will be unable to resolve the security problem on its own.
What we also need - and even if the Israelis are opposed to this, we must exert constant pressure to achieve it - are international troops as observers, but also with the option of intervening.
We also need Abu Mazen to be successful.
The Commissioner takes the view that we need elections, and I think he is right, but elections can only take place usefully once Abu Mazen has had a chance to prove that his course is better and more successful for the Palestinians than the terrorism perpetrated by Hamas and other movements.
Over the last few days, a young Israeli doctor came to visit me.
She spent two years in the military and now she is providing medical care in a mobile clinic in the Palestinian territories.
Day after day, this young Israeli goes into the Palestinian territories and helps to ensure that the Palestinians have a modicum of basic healthcare.
As long as such people exist in Israel and on the Palestinian side, we must do everything we can to press for peace in the Middle East with hope and confidence.
