Mr President, Commissioners, comrades, ladies and gentlemen, in the areas of environmental protection, consumer protection and health, we keep on, at European level, we keep on attempting to tackle very ambitious projects that are intended to improve the public's quality of life in every area: environmental action programmes, action programmes in the field of public health, consumer protection strategies, strategies for the environment and health, and so on and so forth.
But what about the resources that are needed if we are to be able to successfully bring these projects to fruition?
This is where the Commission's preliminary draft Budget is rather timid, characterised by willing submission to the Council's mania for indiscriminate austerity measures.
How else is one to imagine the genesis of this PDB, which the Council or - to put it a better way, the functionaries in COREPER - have tightened up?
That, let me add, for a year in which the Budget is to be drawn up not for fifteen Member States, but for twenty-five, for which it must be adequate.
That, though, is the Council with which we are familiar, ceremoniously signing treaties, but refusing to put its name to the budget appropriations for them.
Just do not let the Commission get into the same way of doing things.
We know that the ten new Member States' institutions are in need of a great deal of reconstruction where the protection of the environment, consumer policy and health care are concerned; these are areas in which, despite the funds made available under the pre-accession strategy, they have as yet achieved nothing of any substance.
Not only have we learned that from the Consumers International report, but the Court of Auditors has also enjoined us to take good note of it.
Of course we want 'greening of the budget', consumer protection as a mainstreaming principle in all European policies, and awareness at every level of Europe, but, to do that, we need operational resources and resources in terms of personnel, and these have to be made available.
That will not be done only by pithy strategies or action programmes written down on paper - which, of course, does not blush!
