Mr President, I would like to speak principally on the report by Mr Cunha.
As regards the other reports, I want to mention only the question of intervention in rye, which the Commission proposes should be done away with and not replaced.
I therefore support the proposal on intervention in the form in which we modified it in the Souchet report in the Committee.
There must continue in future to be the possibility of compensation for certain specified sites, the natural characteristics of which allow only a limited number of economic alternatives.
Let me turn, though, to the Cunha report, which I wholeheartedly endorse.
It incorporates elements that we social democrats have repeatedly called for, such as the requirement for both modulation and cross-compliance, as well as aspects related to the protection of animals.
The preamble inserted before Article 1 reflects this House's priorities: a secure income for farmers along with support for environmental protection and employment in rural areas.
What I see as important in this is that Parliament is strongly advocating that a start be made on decoupling aid from production; in the text voted on by the Committee, though, this affirmation is still very muted and vague.
This, in my view, is where we have to choose a form of words that clarifies what we are calling for.
It is for this reason that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has tabled amendments providing for decoupling to start, in 2005, at 50% and, following the presentation of a report from the Commission in 2007, for it to rise progressively and be extended to other sectors.
This is especially important, as, in the compromise motions, we have agreed on the partial decoupling of only two sectors.
Much as we should, certainly, welcome this introduction of decoupling, we should not lose sight of the longer-term perspective.
So I hope that the Group of the Party of European Socialists' Amendments Nos 126 and 127 will be endorsed, as these amendments will enable Parliament to send the Council a more emphatic message.
Let me conclude by addressing yet another important aspect, that of renewable raw materials.
These offer farmers in many regions great potential for viable alternative crops while, at the same time, having a positive effect on the environment.
The possibility that our amendment - in contrast to the Commission proposal - will continue to enable set aside areas to be used for cultivating renewable raw materials is one that I very much welcome.
