Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur on her very short and succinct report.
It is very much to the point, and that point is that we need more transparency and commitment on the part of the Commission in its administration and towards the citizens of the Union - something that has already been mentioned.
I believe that a time-limit of one year is not only appropriate, but is even very generous.
We have Member States where commitment to schedules is the order of the day.
We should try, together, to get rid of double-tracking when it comes to dealing with complaints.
That has already been mentioned too.
That is one of the objectives of this House, and especially of its Committee on Petitions.
The Commission still has difficulties with administration that is transparent and people-friendly.
It has happened to every one of us that at some time we have had to defend the relatively small number of officials - some seventeen or eighteen thousand - that the Commission employs, because most of the time they behave towards the public as if they had about a hundred thousand.
I do not need to remind you of the game of hide-and-seek that the Commission is currently playing in connection with the EUROSTAT scandal, where one has the feeling that the Commission has not yet learned that modern administration has something to do with transparency.
We only have to look at last year's report by the Ombudsman, which shows that in the year 2002, Commissioner, 75% of complaints were about your institution.
Of those complaints, there were many that could have been settled relatively easily and at little cost.
In fact, 27% of the complaints by EU citizens were concerned with lack of transparency and refusal to provide information.
Once again it boils down to transparency.
Mr Prodi publicly promised something quite different when he took office three years ago.
A further 15% of complaints were concerned with avoidable administrative delays.
The issue of late payments has now become legendary in the Union.
I believe that there is great potential here for improvement at little cost.
We just need goodwill, and I think it would be a good idea if we could agree, Commissioner, that, in relation to the commitments that you have entered into, whereby everything will be dealt with within a year, Parliament could receive regular reports from you.
