Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Kinnock, I am glad that you have been able to get back to your roots as transport commissioner by delivering your speech to us just in time.
When you took up your new responsibility in 1999, you promised to create the most modern and most efficient administration in the world.
Now you are trying to get us to buy the idea that, as your term of office in this Commission draws to a close, you have actually achieved this exalted objective, but, Commissioner, things in the garden are not quite as rosy as the glowing colours in which you have depicted them would suggest.
There are many dark clouds overshadowing it, and a number of points that I would like to take up.
The first is that it is, in my view, unacceptable that the Commission's administration does not reflect what the budgetary authority wants.
I am glad to see that Commissioner Vitorino has now arrived; we discussed this under the heading of information policy this morning.
We have topped up the funds for this, leaving nothing in the reserves, but, at ground level, there is no administration and the decentralisation to which you referred does not work either.
Agreements with the Member States are not concluded and there are no funds for things - like the outcome of the Convention - in which the Commission has no political interest.
You have EUR 10 million at your disposal, and only EUR 1.5 million have been spent.
It is not your job to decide for yourself how the Budget is to be administered, but to ensure that the administration actually carries out what the Council and Parliament have decided.
You are failing to do so, and, as Commissioner for personnel, you share the responsibility for that.
I could give you many other examples of this.
Secondly, this is also about those areas in which the Commission itself bears financial responsibility.
The excuse is always given that it is the dastardly Member States who administer 80% of the budget, but, where you yourself are responsible, you have to maintain order and, the members of the Committee on Budgetary Control have given you the clear message as regards the way you do that: that is your responsibility and you have to answer for it!
