Mr President, Commissioner, we can only welcome the campaigns to fight hunger in the developing countries.
The official statements, all of which have been quoted in today's resolution, must now be followed up with further, and very definite, measures.
There is no doubt a great variety of ways out of the poverty trap in the less developed countries.
As a member of the European Parliament's ACP delegation, the removal of barriers to trade with the poorest countries concerns me greatly.
The number of people in the developing countries who have less than one dollar a day to live on continues to grow.
Across the world, 900 people die of hunger every hour, many of them children.
Deep public concern has long since ceased to be enough.
The European Union and other donors must respond more vigorously to hunger in the developing countries, increase food and humanitarian aid and distribute the money provided, from the HIV/AIDS fund, for example, more quickly.
Road tolls, import and customs procedures, and so on, in the areas at risk, mean that logistical capacity is not sufficient to ensure that food aid is delivered on time and without a hitch.
We here in the European Parliament should, by means of today's resolution, make clear once again that the worldwide costs of failure to abolish hunger are enormously high.
Wars, repeated disasters, international crime, drug dealing, economic stagnation, illegal immigration and premature death, ladies and gentlemen, are but a few among them.
Of course, the decision to admit all products - with the exception of arms - from the least developed countries to the European Union market is a step in the right direction.
Mr President, I have almost finished.
Of course we must improve market access for agricultural products from the developing countries.
But we should also point out that other highly developed countries in this world really must make greater efforts too.
As a member of the ACP delegation I support the work of this resolution as a whole.
