Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, every war is a moral defeat for politics, and, in this instance, war is also an expression of Europe's weakness.
The good news associated with this is that this war will mean the end of Saddam Hussein, who has so many people on his conscience and who would wreak even more havoc.
Even so, many of the public have doubts when considering whether this good objective justifies the sacrifices involved.
Let us just consider the problems related to the region's stability, the issue of the legitimacy of a war started by unilateral actions, and the consequences for the United Nations.
My own doubts about this have not been dispelled, either.
We now have to be prompt in providing aid for the people in the aftermath of war and for the purpose of stabilising the region.
This is where we Europeans have to make the effort, and we have to get the quartet down to work with a view to resolving the problems in the Middle East.
Especially, though, we have to do our own homework.
None of Europe's governments appear to be coming out of the present situation in a particularly good light, and we should recognise that it is only together that we have a part to play in matters of war and peace, that the Convention must therefore come to a successful conclusion, and that foreign policy, too, must be founded on decisions by a qualified majority, in order that Europe may soon speak with one voice.
This must also be the basis on which we again strengthen our transatlantic ties, which bind us to the great democracy on the other side of the ocean, but these must be founded upon our own strength, on which any partnership must be dependent.
Then, I believe, the democracies on both sides of the ocean will be able to make it their concern to establish a just world order, for no world order can be established by violence.
Other ways and means must be found to create this world order, and this is something we must achieve together.
