Mr President, honourable Members, let me start by thanking Mrs Miguélez Ramos for her report on our communication on the subject of the mid-term review - and I emphasise mid-term review - of the fourth fisheries protocol between the European Union and Greenland.
I am glad, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, that you endorse the Commission communication.
It was on 30 June 2003 that the Commission and Greenland completed the mid-term review, which is provided for in Article 14 of the protocol.
The fourth protocol was signed yesterday, and it is hoped that all parties will ratify it.
It provides answers and solutions to the concerns expressed in our communication and in your report.
Let me set out just a few of the new elements in it.
There have, firstly, been substantial corrections to the quotas, in order to adjust catch possibilities in line with the scientific evidence.
There is no quota for cod, for Atlantic redfish in the western waters, or for blue whiting, in order to do justice to the EU's fishing capacity.
There are, therefore, no more paper-fish.
Secondly, and in view of certain catch possibilities not having been used to date, we have now introduced the standard transfer clause, whereby we can transfer unused catch possibilities to other Member States not in possession of a quota.
The agreement with Greenland is thereby brought into line with other agreements with third countries making provision for financial compensation.
In July of this year, for the first time in the history of this agreement, unused quotas were transferred to other Member States that did not have them.
Thirdly, Mrs Miguélez Ramos, your report calls for the introduction of licence fees.
That will be happening with effect from 1 January 2004 as an equalisation of burdens between the Community and the shipowners.
That, too, brings this agreement into line with those with other third countries and also makes it possible for us to monitor the fishing effort.
Fourthly, we have responded to the lack of transparency by introducing a budget support programme, and Greenland's regional government has consequently committed itself to a structural reform of its fisheries policy, aiming at greater privatisation and a reduction in subsidies.
Greenland has also undertaken to substantially replenish the budget of the Greenland Institute for Natural Resources, which should make it possible to expand the scientific capacity of that Institute.
Finally, we are also promoting exploratory fishing and extending it to include cephalopods and mussels.
Success in this area will make it possible to make Greenland's fisheries more diverse and include new species in the next agreement with the country.
These changes have been made in dialogue with the authorities in Greenland and in accordance with the principles of the new partnership and fisheries agreement.
I believe that they make the agreement with Greenland more balanced and more transparent, as the financial compensation now corresponds to the catch possibilities actually used, and as reform of Greenland's fisheries policies is supported.
Although, as I have said, this is only a mid-term review, the more extensive relations with Greenland post-2006 were dependent on this revision being carried out.
Our communication, and the endorsement given by your report, have made it possible for us to revise the fourth protocol in such a way as to remove all obstacles to a deepening of our relationship.
