Mr President, Commissioner, my group obviously supports the rapporteur's approach of proceeding gradually, because it is right to do so.
If I understood Mr Barnier correctly, he has also swung a little in the direction of the rapporteur, because originally it was still the case that the Commission wanted to say: the Member States will have to terminate all of their air service agreements and we will make new ones.
If I understood Mr Barnier correctly, he is falling in with our line, because there are two things that we need to consider: we need to implement the ECJ ruling, and underlying that is also that we need to create fair conditions of competition for our European airlines in relation to third countries.
That is an important task.
But we also need to bear in mind that the airlines need legal certainty.
They need legal certainty in their air service agreements with the countries of the world, and that is why we cannot terminate everything and say that we will stay in a state of flux.
Instead we first need to restrict ourselves to those things for which the Commission has the manpower.
That is why, Mr Barnier, it is right for you also to take the path that the rapporteur has proposed, and proceed on a step-by-step basis.
The most important agreement is the agreement with the USA.
We want a transatlantic market in air transport with reasonable access rules and reasonable competition rules, and I hope that the Commissioner for transport will brief us very soon in the committee on the extent to which preparations for the negotiations with the USA are already in hand and when negotiations will start.
I think that from an economic point of view this is the most important agreement for all of our airlines, whether it be Air France, British Airways or Lufthansa, which is why we need to find a reasonable settlement, and it is also of great significance for competition between them.
I therefore hope that we will make speedy progress here.
Once we have produced such a model for an open, fair airspace with the USA, we will have to ensure, as the rapporteur said, that we apply it to those countries that either already have a similarly liberalised market or are striving to create one.
Allow me to say in closing that, irrespective of this, we also urgently need to talk to Russia, because the Russian conditions for our airlines are fundamentally such that we cannot accept them.
We should therefore proceed cautiously, start with the USA, but not lose sight of Russia.
