Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking my colleague Mr van den Berg most warmly for his splendid report and, of course, also for his other activities, such as education for all.
As is set out in this report, the proportion of people who are illiterate is depressingly high in many countries, particularly in Africa, where there are few opportunities, especially in sparsely-populated areas.
As it would, in desert or other uninhabited areas, be unrealistic to build a large number of schools near to where people live, we have to take a good look at other solutions to reduce the educational deficit.
This is one of the things Mr van den Berg takes up in his report, proposing, for example, the setting-up of mobile schools, which are of particular importance in providing basic education.
In this context too, though, I will come back to the subject of modern information and communication technologies, the use of which enables distances to be overcome, the digital gap to be crossed, and education to become more widespread.
It is certain, though, that in the long term, the most important mass medium is radio, which could - and should - be even more widely used as a means of providing education than it has been so far.
The example of what is done in the Australian outback can certainly not be followed exactly in African countries, but is one from which one can learn, and it too must form part of any strategy for education.
I am glad that I do not have to point out the need to take especial account of girls and women in all educational endeavours.
In this report, at any rate, this has become a generally accepted fact.
It is not, however, generally known that education - particularly basic education - conducted in the predominant regional languages results in a marked increase in the desire for education and reduces parents' misgivings about sending their children to school.
This is where we must help with the investment in appropriate teaching material, play our part in promoting the education of teachers and contributing to the dissemination of knowledge that relates to local interests and is therefore an indispensable necessity in terms of raising the consciousness of civil society.
