Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I find myself in a similar position to Mr Daul, in that I too do not wish to repeat everything that has already been discussed, but I would like to say something about one comment made by the Italian Presidency.
I think you were right to raise the issue of whether we are not really still in the 'post-Seattle process'.
You put it so neatly: from Seattle, via Doha, to Cancún.
I think there is a lot in that.
We had a situation in Seattle in which civil society tried, as part of anti-globalisation campaigns, to ask questions that we as a political institution have perhaps not always taken seriously enough or adequately addressed.
That process has continued, and it has led to a general feeling of insecurity, insecurity not just limited to civil society but that has also reached far into the political institutions and also into many societies and states.
We felt the same thing once again in Cancún in relation to the African states involved, and that feeling has even to some extent reached the G21 countries, who of course also attempted to mount a kind of revolt and to break this monopoly of power between Europe and the United States and perhaps also other nations.
In view of that it may perhaps make very good sense for us to analyse further what actually happened and whether we are creating a reasonable basis for our new strategy.
I do not share the self-pity that I rather sense here in this Chamber, that feeling that we are to blame for so much.
I would like to congratulate the Commissioners.
I think that their strategy was the right one and that we should not be heaping all the blame onto our own shoulders because it failed.
I also believe that we should keep our options open.
I certainly do not think that we should limit ourselves to the multilateral agenda, and those Members who know me will be aware of that.
Sometimes it is a good thing to have several options, because you then have some scope for juggling your options.
Sometimes one option is right and at other times a different one is.
I am therefore in favour of keeping both options open.
Furthermore, I hope that my fellow Member from Austria, Mr Paul Rübig, will address the House later.
Unfortunately I have no more time left.
