Mr President, I also say what I wish to say, and that is why I should first like expressly to thank Mr Posselt for not only criticising and condemning the practice of torture as such in the abstract, but also for naming specific states that sponsor torture.
I believe that this is one of the most important political points, and we should not forget it.
In our relations with third countries we should also name any states that practise torture.
He mentioned Russia and Turkey, and I am rapporteur for Iran, but that does not stop me from saying that regrettably in Iran too torture still takes place.
We address this publicly, for example in the human rights dialogue that is underway with this country.
That is why, Commissioner, I think it would have been good if you not only addressed this in individual political dialogues, that is behind closed doors, but if you too had given the names of countries that are associated with torture.
In this context, if we have evidence of torture, I think it is very important for us to withdraw privileges, for example the trade privileges enjoyed by many ACP States in the context of the Cotonou Agreement, in accordance with the precautions that we have taken in the treaties.
We have mechanisms for doing this, but it does not seem to me that we are using them in respect of the 77 ACP States, except in the case of Zimbabwe, where we have taken quite modest measures.
You mentioned a further point, namely the treatment centres for torture victims.
If I interpret what you said correctly, you were saying that you intended to stop funding these treatment centres.
You only qualified this by saying, 'not overnight', but the policy is clear.
You did also mention that there are other potential sources of funding.
This is a clear indication that this is obviously your intention.
I would urge you to rethink.
As a matter of principle, we can only withdraw if we have information that the torture has stopped or lessened, but not without that information.
That is why I am supporting a proposal that I have heard is being tabled by the Socialist Group, namely to increase budget item B5-813 by EUR 1 million.
I am also trying to enlist support for the proposal in my own group.
So we are asking for the opposite of abolishing the budget item: unfortunately at the moment a further increase.
I would ask the Commission to act in concert with us.
