Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have often heard that Europe's wealth lies in its cultural diversity, and the expression is often, and readily, used in many political speeches.
It is not, however, meant only to be used, but should also emphasise and reinforce European consciousness.
As we have already heard said many times today, one essential part of this richness is linguistic diversity, which we have taken on as our cultural heritage and must pass on as a matter of cultural responsibility.
Put into practical terms, this means that we need institutions to take on this work, financial resources to make it possible, and voluntary organisations to give support in the performance of these tasks.
Being myself from Austria, a country in which six recognised ethnic groups and their minority languages are represented - three of them, including Roma, in my very small federal state of Burgenland alone - I know how difficult it is to meet all the demands involved in using languages properly and in maintaining them.
Whilst it is the individual states that have responsibility for minority languages and for their support, the European Union cannot evade the obligation to take action to back them up in this; we are talking here about 40 million EU citizens and 60 regional and minority languages.
The European Year of Languages was, as we have heard, a great success; it also sent the right signals and pointed us in the right direction.
Now is the time for what we have learned to be put into practice, and I would agree with Mrs Martens that sign language must absolutely be included, as the deaf must be able to participate in social and political life.
Multiannual programmes for linguistic diversity are desirable and should be pushed through.
International exchanges of experience and courses of study, cross-border projects and so on, should be brought together under one roof, and I believe it to be absolutely necessary that EBLUL be given a legal basis enabling it to make full use of the financial resources provided for it.
