Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Financial Services Action Plan has been fast-tracked, the accession treaties signed - bringing the reunification of Europe one step closer - the Balkan Initiative launched and the first two parts of the draft constitution presented.
Nevertheless, in the last few weeks we have been forced to recognise that where the war in Iraq was concerned personal vanity and national egoism proved to be stronger than the aim of a common foreign policy and that as a result we did not play a part in the 'war or peace' decision.
We succeed when we act as a Community; we fail when we reduce Europe to the level of an intergovernmental enterprise.
Acting as a Community means not having a national veto with the system of unanimity, but having greater public participation with qualified double majorities.
The internal market will become a domestic market for 25 only when they all have the euro as their currency and Parliament is given a right to codecision on tax issues that are relevant to the internal market.
The EU foreign minister will be more than an important and necessary job title only if we have codecision for foreign policy.
Europe is more than the sum of its parts.
Europe is more than the sum of the governments.
All of us are Europe!
Each individual carries a degree of responsibility for the future of the whole.
This way of seeing ourselves is however not yet a reality but still a dream, and that is why I propose that we do not move on to the agenda but have a more in-depth round of communication, information and social dialogue about the results of the last six months.
That is also why I call for us to continue to apply the characteristics of the Convention - transparency, proximity to the people and democratisation.
The Convention itself fostered this and that is why I think that a public opinion poll on the result of the Intergovernmental Conference would call for regions, nations and members of the public to be directly involved.
It would give domestic policy a European dimension, it would make national movements European ones ahead of the forthcoming European elections, and it would inform the public that we are all part of Europe and successfully active in it.
