Madam President, initially we denied that the problem existed.
Then gradually we moved from denying that the problem existed to playing down its importance; it varied depending on the country and the society concerned.
I think that this report now presents us with a more holistic approach.
I find the report positive overall, although it could certainly be improved.
The analysis is very comprehensive and good.
If we consider the five different levels - production, transport, marketing, consumption and consequences - we realise that as a society and as a legislator we are going to have to intervene in various different areas and sectors.
Where production is concerned, I think that we need to intervene much more decisively through development aid, which is a different field, but one that is entirely relevant here.
Because if we are not in a position to share of our own free will now, then we will certainly have to do so in the future.
As regards transport, marketing and the criminality associated with them are concerned, I think that this is where more effort needs to be made, and it is essential that this go hand in hand with tightening up the relevant measures on prevention and care.
Although this is not directly our responsibility, I do believe - indeed I am convinced - that this issue needs to be raised.
Consumption is generally presented as an individual problem.
But it is not just an individual problem; it is an issue not only for the individual, the family and their immediate circle, but also for the local community and society at large.
The consequences, as it states in detail in the analysis contained in the report, are also a public health problem.
It is then an issue for the whole of society and I believe that this phenomenon - which after being played down is now once again entering a new phase in which a holistic approach is being adopted - can only be tackled through dialogue and with the help and willingness of the entire community - the local community in particular - to provide care.
I hope that society's attitude gradually changes in this regard and that people become more willing to show greater commitment here, because that is what is required if we are to be successful in combating this scourge.
