Mr President, Commissioner, I too, of course, would like to express my solidarity with the countries of the South, but I hope you will not mind if I, instead of repeating everything my fellow-Members have said, concentrate on the drought in my own country.
Those of us who cast our minds back somewhat further, Commissioner, know that very dry summers have been a frequent occurrence, and so I am not one of those who regard this summer of the century as a quite unique phenomenon, but, farms being as financially stretched as they are, we can hardly dismiss this summer of the century as nothing more than an occupational hazard.
Like the harvest report that has been presented, the Ministry's official figures also confirm that the drought has brought on extreme losses to the harvest in Germany, but also in its European neighbours, and you have already pointed out that the European Commission has taken initial steps to enable the direct payments that are in any case due to farmers to be made more speedily and at an earlier date.
Although I see that as an encouragement, this does not add up to extra money.
It strengthens farms' liquidity, enabling them to buy in feedingstuffs and sow new crops.
Let me ask you, though, something that has been briefly discussed in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, that is, whether there are indeed no uncontracted funds available in the EU's agricultural budget.
I would have thought that resources were available.
Is it not conceivable that this is an area where help could be given more speedily - with co-financing at national level, which is what some of the German federal states are considering?
Let me say by way of conclusion something that has already been mentioned very often - that the eventual consequence for forestry, including in our country, will be that many farmers' own financial resources will be insufficient to permit reforestation.
If we are to talk in terms of rural development, this is where we should be giving really serious thought to how we deal with this problem.
