Mr President, I am speaking not as a woman, but as my group's representative.
You too, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, spoke as chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
Women make up some 40% of the fifteen million people who work in agriculture in the EU, and run one in every five farms - around 1.3 million - which, apart from a mere 3% larger ones, are small and medium-sized operations.
Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou's report gives more detailed information on this.
Although, of all the Community's policies, the CAP is far and away the most highly developed, there is still a positively criminal neglect of gender mainstreaming.
The consequence of this is that there is scarcely any visible sign of women in rural areas enjoying equal status and equal rights.
Although a number of instruments have been devised, any visible breakthrough in the CAP is still a long way in the future.
Even though, in my view, the reform of agricultural policy left the fields strewn with dead lobbyists, it does have a very apparent shortcoming in that women have not managed to get the systematic promotion of women in agriculture accepted.
Especially painful though that is, it is primarily in the restructuring of rural areas in the candidate countries in Central and Eastern Europe that even greater pain will be felt.
What is on our minds is the new working arrangements that have to be devised.
We are thinking about facilities that improve the balance between working life and family life, as well as about childcare facilities, and the provision of care for disabled and older people.
We are thinking about the need to further develop rural tourism, and about how to promote alternative energies, and regional marketing cycles.
These may be only ad hoc approaches, but they have added to the range of culture on offer.
Women have eventually found a small niche in all this and seized an opportunity, but I think of the state of Bavaria, from which I come and which the President knows well - there, in 2002, EUR 17 million from the rural development programme were not allocated, which - if we add in the co-financed sums that could have been used for specific projects, including for women - means that a total of EUR 34 million could not be paid out.
As regards many of the available resources, we still have to exert pressure on the Member States, and so I ask the Commission, when monitoring the programmes' operation, to pay much closer attention to the way in which gender mainstreaming is actually implemented, so that it does not remain merely a topic for pious utterances.
My group has endorsed Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou's report.
We have tabled amendments in the hope of extending it to cover the fisheries sector, in which a very large number of women work.
I speak also on behalf of the rapporteur when I ask the House to support us in seeking this, and I appeal to the Commission to include this dimension.
