Mr President, Commissioner, the regulation on the Structural Funds, which covers the ESF, the ERDF and the EAGGF, stipulates a commitment to the achievement of equality of opportunities.
The same commitment applies to the Equal, Interreg III, Urban II and Leader Plus Community initiatives.
However, as we have already heard from the previous speakers, the implementation of the objectives to be pursued to achieve equality between men and women in these programmes leaves a great deal to be desired in practice.
The Commission has undertaken to present a mid-term review of the Structural Funds by the end of the year.
I believe that this own-initiative report by Mrs Avilés Perea could provide a good foundation for that and I would like to briefly mention a few more of our aspirations and identify some of the shortcomings here.
There are a number of things that need to be improved as regards the allocation of funds.
There needs to be balanced participation by men and women in the bodies responsible for decision-making, selection and monitoring at local, regional and national level.
Information needs to be provided to applicants and project management staff on how equality of opportunities can be effectively incorporated into draft measures.
One of the important things here is for Structural Fund plans and programmes to include financing programmes which identify funding available for individual measures and actions to improve equality of opportunities.
This would both emphasise and guarantee that equal opportunities are being taken seriously and are really to be implemented in these programmes.
The difficulties, resulting from structural weaknesses, involved in reconciling professional and family life still represent a problem.
If equal opportunities are not systematically incorporated into all stages of programme planning and implementation, they will continue to be scandalously neglected in the future as well.
The Social Fund needs to be used far more intensively as an instrument for remedying the inequitable treatment of women in the labour market.
Women's demands for equal pay for equal work go back a very long way, but they have still not been met.
We need to promote women in the areas of information technology and entrepreneurship.
There is also a failure to develop adequate new forms of employment.
Although the Member States have formally committed themselves to equal opportunities, implementation of them still falls short in many areas, despite legislation to promote equality of opportunities.
So the question that arises once again is this: what is the point of having excellent legislation if failure to comply with it has virtually no consequences?
