Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Perry has earned our gratitude by presenting a report demonstrating a very forward-looking perspective, and in which he has not left out the areas of conflict that undeniably exist in a dual system in which public and commercial service providers square up to each other and fight over a market comprising 155 million households in the present European Union of fifteen Member States, a figure that will further increase.
There is no doubt that the directive will have to be revised if its objectives for the future are to be achieved.
My Group takes the view that the Commission is too hesitant in this respect.
What is in fact at stake is the safeguarding of cultural diversity, a wide range of opinions and pluralism.
Whilst democratic opinion today is, in essence, shaped by television, this is no longer only the traditional television with analogue transmission.
More and more, we have digitalisation to cope with.
I was recently at the International Broadcasting Exhibition in Berlin, where I could see very well how consumer habits in this area are changing, and that nowadays the technical means of transmission can no longer be decisive when it comes to deciding which is the right way to draft laws for a media service.
It must also be clear, however, that we need to establish a system of graduated regulation, and this is where there will be new demands placed on future legislation.
Not every media service is of major importance in publicity terms, so the determinative criterion for the future must be the extent to which a media service is useful for publicity purposes and in what sense it is not.
If I might put it rather loosely, it is on that basis that legislation can be drafted with varying degrees of rigour.
Much will also be demanded of the rules that will have to be laid down, not only, to be sure, under the television directive, but also in parallel with it, in order to counteract the accumulation of economic power, which becomes media power and, eventually, also political power.
We are dealing here with a development that makes it plain that bounds must be set at European level to contain media concentration, which does indeed endanger pluralism.
As we can see from the example of Italy, national legal resources are not, in any case, sufficient.
