Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think Parliament has done its homework very well, in that it has done everything it can to get through second reading as quickly as possible.
One reason why this is important is that the Council has taken such a stubborn attitude, essentially concentrating on the compromises it agreed at New Year without responding to any of Parliament's suggestions.
This means that only a conciliation procedure can resolve the problem, so, in the committee, we prepared the second reading and presented it to plenary in what really was record time, so that we would have enough time to conduct the negotiations, on a serious basis, before the year is over.
I would not want to miss this opportunity to extend thanks to the Commission for now having commenced Treaty infringement proceedings against Austria in respect of the unilateral steps taken by the province of Tyrol, and I hope that this will yield results before 1 August, when these rules enter into force.
I would also like to express my gratitude to the Commission for having, at its meeting this week, decided not to have recourse to the 108% rule.
That, too, sends a clear signal that we are a community founded on the rule of law, where it is not open to all to do as they please, but in which all share in drafting and enacting the law, which must therefore also be obeyed by all.
Quite simply, then, my plea to all the Members of this House - and also to the Council - is that we should all make good use of the summer recess and consider how we can each move closer to the other's position.
Here there is plenty of room for manoeuvre in the course of negotiations.
Let us take the autumn negotiations seriously and complete them with a third reading by the end of this year.
We will then be on the right track when it comes to bringing together, in the right way, the interests of the environment, the interests of the transport sector and the economic interests of the European Union as a whole.
