Mr President, Commissioner, I, too, am sincerely grateful to the rapporteur, Mrs Redondo.
The way that this new proposal Forest Focus combines two old demands, that woodland be protected against environmental pollution and against fires, meets with my fundamental approval.
Just so that you realise that I know what I am talking about, Commissioner, I will say that I have a background in forestry, but in a northern country.
I want to strongly emphasise the point of principle that forestry policy must remain in the hands of the Member States, and to keep on reminding the Commission of the principle of subsidiarity.
Will Forest Focus have a beneficial effect on woodland and on those who own it, or is this just another exercise in keeping new hordes of bureaucrats employed and fed?
I have to tell you that, representing as I do the German province of North Rhine-Westphalia, I get the impression that Brussels takes absolutely no notice of what is really going on in European forestry.
Within the European Union, 65% of the woodland is owned and managed by 12 million forest owners, and this branch of agriculture causes them serious problems as far as profitability is concerned.
Two years ago, we ran a conference on this subject in Brussels.
In my homeland, Commissioner, young farmers no longer have any interest in woodlands or in forestry.
The property rights of woodland farmers are constantly being eroded.
Why should a forester give his all without getting financial compensation, often without his efforts even being recognised by society?
If we say yes to it, Forest Focus will have to cover the social, economic and ecological fields in Europe.
Bio-diversity and monitoring have a nice sound to them, but they do not give woodland farmers any financial entitlements in respect of the work they do.
Let me say in conclusion that it is not those who are constantly discussing woodlands who are engaged in caring for nature and protecting it.
I can tell you that if we do not succeed in making forestry a more profitable proposition overall for agriculture, young people in my homeland will simply throw in the towel.
Even now, they are no longer prepared to clear up storm damage, for they take the line that this is a luxury they cannot afford.
Let us not start imposing more and more new demands on them.
Let us help to clean up the air.
Let us help provide compensatory measures as well, so that they can do such things as fertilising the soil with manure and lime.
Things really have to be said on the basis of practical experience, instead of just the empty forms of words that really do try my patience this late in the evening.
