Mr President, what is achieved by this House's resolutions on human rights and debates on matters of urgent and topical importance?
In the case of Burma, not very much.
In June, we called for the speedy introduction of democracy and for the immediate release of Aung San Suu Kyi, who was detained in what was at the time a secret location.
She has, since 1988, been campaigning for more democracy, and was awarded our Sakharov Prize in 1990 and the Nobel Peace Prize in 1991.
It was partly through our pressure that representatives of the International Committee of the Red Cross were able to visit her.
There is, however, no prospect of democracy being introduced with any sort of urgency.
Although the new Burmese Prime Minister, General Khin Nyunt, published, on 30 August, a roadmap for free elections by secret ballot, no firm date has been set for them.
My fellow Members are right not to set too much store by promises of democracy and such things as the summoning of a constitutional convention, for it is the armed forces who take decisions on all important matters, and the convention will have no influence on them whatever.
Aung San Suu Kyi has been on hunger strike since 31 August in order to make a forceful protest against her detention.
Let us, too, have done with half measures!
The EU's imposition of a visa ban and its freezing of the overseas assets of Burmese associates of the regime are nothing like enough.
As a community of values, one that exalts the maintenance of democracy and human rights as its supreme principle, the EU must take a hard line with the junta in Rangoon.
Aung San Suu Kyi and her supporters must be released from detention at last.
The results of the free elections in 1990 must be accepted, power must be handed over to the forces of democracy, and the roadmap must be implemented, but under international supervision.
Commissioner Nielson, I urge you to press for tougher action to be taken and for further sanctions to be imposed.
These should, I believe, include an embargo on goods imported from Burma and a boycott of tourism in that country.
That, perhaps, will be the sort of language they will understand.
