Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to start by thanking our rapporteur, Mr Marset Campos, for his report, which does indeed very well summarise the decisive conclusions resulting from this Parliament's work in recent years.
This makes it a very important document in the discussions on the subject of Belarus.
It might well be important to reiterate in this context that it is not the European institutions that are isolating Belarus, but the country itself, and the dictator who has plunged it into crisis and who prohibits and represses every form of democratic expression.
We are a long way from being able to take up normal relations with this country.
On that, Commissioner, I agree with you entirely.
Despite that, the reality is that Belarus is our neighbour, and we must have an interest in overcoming its self-imposed isolation.
If that cannot be done in the context of normal relations, the need still remains for the European Union to develop a strategy for dealing with Belarus.
All the same, I think it would be a good thing if you were to turn your attention to item 9, which demands that we should adopt a strategy for dealing with Belarus.
To do so would of course result in consideration of where we should have recourse to such important diplomatic instruments as the carrot and the stick, or what sort of instruments we should apply, where we should impose sanctions and where we should offer support.
The instruments we have had up to now are inappropriate, so we must modify them to our purposes as regards Belarus.
Item 9 sets out with the utmost clarity what they are to be modified to do and in which areas more needs to be done than was done within the last programme.
That is what this item is for, and it is my belief that it thus gives the Commission very, very good indications of what to do.
I would also like to reiterate that the local elections and our observation of them will be of great importance to future relations.
I hope that this is where we can enjoy very good strategic cooperation with the Commission.
