Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I see the Second progress report on economic and social cohesion as a valuable, up-dated analysis of the current situation and of the possible future direction of cohesion policy in the enlarged Union.
The compromise that was reached after lengthy discussions with the rapporteur and the adoption of numerous amendments in the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism is to be welcomed, and as the report now stands it should achieve a majority in the House.
I am thinking here both of the budget for cohesion policy of 0.45% of GDP and of keeping Objective 1 areas as the main focus of our support.
I welcome the threshold of 75% of GDP per head at NUTS II level being retained as the main criterion for determining Objective 1 status, provided that at the same time the so-called statistical effect is neutralised.
We are all aware that at the end of the current support period those regions affected by the statistical effect will not of course have exceeded the 75% threshold in the present EU.
Overnight, or to be more precise between 30 April and 1 May next year, a stroke of a mathematical pen will turn poor wretches into wealthy people, although they will not have a cent more to their name.
That is the so-called statistical effect.
These regions continue to require resources from the Structural Funds to consolidate and further the process of economic and social convergence, which they have begun so successfully in previous support periods.
That is why the report clearly underlines, on the basis of our amendments submitted in the committee, that particular attention must be paid to the regions suffering from the impact of these statistical changes, and that in the future too these areas should be treated as similar to Objective 1 areas with the equivalent level of support and with the aid administered in accordance with Article 87, paragraph 3(a).
Existing transitional arrangements - phasing out - do not do justice to the specific problems of these areas caught by the statistical effect.
The report, as it stands, should also find the support of the majority of this House.
