Mr President, the rapporteurs and members of the Committee on Agricultural and Rural Development have had a hard job positively revising the Commission proposals for reform of the Agricultural Policy, which are ill thought-out and unreasonable.
I refer specifically to complex cereals, dried fodder, milk, and also to reductions in defence of the gradual decrease and the full decoupling of direct payments.
Particularly in respect of enlargement, it is a positive thing that the majority of the committee are behind my proposal to allow, with regard to rye, a time-limited intervention for locations where there is no alternative to its cultivation.
All in all, however, I am dissatisfied, in particular as the pressure of time was so great that the assembly-line voting did not produce a conclusive result.
Furthermore, I consider it wrong in principle that the majority show such unwavering solidarity with the Commission on the road to decoupling and total liberalisation.
I want to state clearly that, for me, the issue is not about a primitive autarky, but an agricultural policy whose priority is orientation towards the internal market offering ever greater opportunities for regularisation.
Exports should be limited to finished agricultural products and imports subject to special external protection which does not hinder developing countries, and at the same time does not prevent access to the market for cheap goods from large non-multifunctional agricultural export countries, such as the USA and the Cairns Group.
Without these conditions there can be no sustained universal multifunctional agriculture in the European Union.
We should all be clear about this.
In conclusion I would like to mention two further important reasons for rejecting the Cunha report.
Firstly I am opposed to modulation funds being a sort of second Cohesion Fund.
These funds should be used in the interests of rural development in each Member State.
Secondly I consider it wrong that decoupling is being prematurely implemented.
It is therefore obvious that a regionalised land premium is far more progressive.
The proposal from Mr Cunha, however, will be almost impossible to carry through.
