.
Mr President, Mrs Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 32 million are needed.
Who can help?
Mr Mulder is willing, who else?
The Commission or the Council perhaps?
Every year we go through the rigmarole of the budget procedure again and unfortunately not everyone's wishes can be met.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Fisheries, I naturally also regret that our wishes do not necessarily have top priority.
The 2004 budget procedure is, however, unusual in two respects.
Firstly, it is the first one to be drawn up using activity-based budgeting; this is an improvement that I very much welcome, since it gives us a clear overview without having to spend a lot of time leafing through the budget lines, especially in the area of fisheries.
Secondly, we are faced with the unusual situation that from 1 January 2004 until 30 April 2004 the budget will apply to the present 15 Member States, but from 1 May 2004, the date of accession of ten new countries, it will apply to 25 Member States.
We are enlarging and have still not done our homework.
The situation is alarming.
In the light of the catastrophic state of fish stocks, last December the Council agreed, after much dragging of feet, to the reform of the common fisheries policy, not least because of clear promptings from Parliament.
One of the most important features of this was the creation of a 'scrapping fund', which was to start before the end of this year.
So far, however, the Council has not given the green light for the use of the flexibility instrument.
That is hard to understand.
I therefore call urgently for this point to be raised in the conciliation procedure beginning on 16 July, so that we can at least learn what position the Council takes on financing reform of the common fisheries policy.
I am by no means releasing the Member States from their responsibility.
But we cannot allow the Council to use the Member States' unwillingness to provide the relevant information as an excuse for blocking one of the main purposes of the reform.
Please give us your support.
