Mr President, Commissioner Lamy, all of us taking part in today's debate are agreed that we have to allow the developing countries to benefit more than they have done to date from the advantages of free and fair world trade.
For that reason, they have to have better access to our market for their industrial manufactured goods and agricultural produce.
In addition, though, they need to improve the knowledge they need in order to be able to get a foothold in the various markets, and their ability to actively and expertly defend their interests in WTO negotiations.
We therefore strongly support the Commission in its efforts, by means of technical aid, to make it easier for these countries to become independent actors on the world market.
If, though, we are not to lose sight of the fact that economic growth for all trading partners is the most important goal of WTO negotiations, it naturally follows that, in offering access to this market, we must, in the negotiations, develop an adequate strategy with regard to the developing countries so that they might have a practical awareness of the advantages of negotiating on the traditional issues of market access and competition, as well as on other issues.
Whilst we have an interest, in the context of the GATS negotiations, in cautiously extending the scope of services, we insist on the cultural and organisational diversity of Europe, as reflected in the area of health, education, the audio-visual sector, and the local provision of services of general interest.
We also believe that we should have no interest in making exceptions of this sort for further sectors and removing them from the scope of the market organisation for services.
Europe leads the world by a long way in the provision of services.
Those who, in this area, adopt a defensive and protectionist position do not recognise the strengths and competitive advantages that the European Union possesses.
What has to be said as regards the body of WTO legislation is that we are meant, in particular, to develop the rules on procedure, transparency and the resolution of disputes, and that the WTO should become an independent and international jurisdiction in trade matters.
