Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what I found absent from the Commissioner's speech this morning was something quite essential, by which I mean the need for us to re-establish a clear order of precedence, according to which this self-evidently has to be about safety and consumer protection, but also about transparency.
I see the subject of transparency as having had far too small a part to play in this morning's debate as a whole.
Commissioner, I would like to urge you in quite specific terms to make a real effort to enact a directive on consumer information analogous to the directive on the freedom of access to information on the environment.
If, for example, there are problems, there should be real disclosure enabling all to see which businesses are causing them.
We must also use this to introduce incentives to get entrepreneurs to really plan for safety.
We need all these things.
Parliament's resolution contains many lines of approach for the introduction of precisely this consumer information directive.
It is not enough simply to call for greater freedom of choice or more information; on that I agree with all those who have already criticised that idea.
This is not about mounting a lot of campaigns in support of the genetic engineering industry, but what matters is that a directive on consumer information should be produced, laying down in very clear terms not only the consumer's right to information, but also the enterprises' duty to disclose breaches when they occur.
I would then like to urge you, as a matter of urgency, to enact the Toys Directive a good deal sooner.
I cannot restrain myself from making a final comment in view of the warning issued by the gentleman from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs about the provisions on the giving of credit.
It goes without saying that I am in favour of minimum harmonisation, and at a high level, but for as long as there are scandals such as that in Germany with the Berliner Bank, with, outrageously, members of the CDU accepting illegal donations, there will, I believe, be a real need for credit institutions to have rules applicable to them.
Let nobody try to tell me that that is obvious!
