Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, like a number of those that preceded it, the last intervention makes me doubt, for example, the source of a Communist's information - which is so precise - on what the peoples want.
Others in this House have said this is about dividing up the riches of socialism.
I wish the public could hear these debates more often.
A Social Democrat spoke in terms of a colonial Camp David.
I really do wonder about the sort of arguments people are coming up with in this debate, and I ask myself whether they would say these things in public in their own countries.
Take Kosovo, for example.
In Kosovo, the citizens wanted the European Union to ?.
?.
Mr Korakas, what the European public wanted was no more mass rapes and expulsions on the continent of Europe in the twenty-first century.
That is what gave rise to the European Security and Defence Policy!
We saw in 1999 - at the Helsinki Summit - that we Europeans could no longer act without American help.
As the Morillon Report so excellently describes, the institutions we have built up have brought us a long way.
On 1 April, we took over for the first time a small mandate in Macedonia, the intention of which is to pacify the country rather than - as some in this House suggest - to engage in armed conflict.
Here, I think, Europe is sending out the right message, and that is what the public expect of us.
We are discussing this report at a very significant time, for what now matters is that the two sides at opposite ends of the spectrum - the German and British Governments - find their way back into European institutions and that they should again attempt to find European solutions, rather than going it alone.
This armed conflict has brought it home to all of us that none of us count for anything on the world stage, and that we can make no contribution to world peace if we work against each other.
We need a common European approach.
What this report proposes is preferable to what came out of the recent Brussels summit, when, as so often before, only four Member States came together, so that the suspicion again arises that this is more of a political act against other allies.
We need Great Britain at the table, too, for without Great Britain no success will come of this venture.
