Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, never before has a presidency attracted as much criticism and scepticism as this Italian Presidency.
There has been fierce criticism not only in the left-wing media, but also, to a great extent, in the conservative media.
This is not, however, something that we Social Democrats take any pleasure in, because we neither want nor are able to replace Italy's internal opposition.
In the interests of Europe, we wish the Italian Government a successful presidency; there is too much at stake to do anything else.
The problem lies, Mr Berlusconi, in the fact that we have heard so many contradictions from Italy in recent months.
Let us take foreign policy, for instance.
In your speech today, Mr Berlusconi, you talked about how Europe must be an active protagonist on the world stage, and about how we also need diplomatic and military instruments.
You also talked about the need for a strong partnership between Europe and the United States.
You are absolutely right on all three counts!
The problem is that in recent months we have seen you, Mr Berlusconi, as a Prime Minister who has not nurtured partnership with the United States, but one who has practised servility and blind obedience.
We have witnessed a Prime Minister Berlusconi who was very reticent about creating a military arm for Europe.
What is more, Mr Berlusconi, I hope that you will adopt a more balanced position on the Middle East, and that you will emphatically call on both sides to refrain from resorting to violence.
We need to combat terrorism in the Middle East just as forcefully as we need to demand the withdrawal of Israeli troops and the dismantling of the wall that cruelly divides Palestine in two.
As regards the important issue of economic and financial policy, the statements made by the Italian Presidency so far have once again been contradictory.
The investment programme proposed by you and by Mr Tremonti for infrastructure projects and for research and development is a good idea as such.
But it is not yet clear whether it is just a question of weakening budgetary discipline or whether Italy is seeking support from Europe for projects it finds hard to finance.
In this case too I call on you to display more clarity and openness if we are to jointly implement the approach of the Delors White Paper and the Commission's proposals.
I have in mind in particular the proposals the Commission adopted when Karel Van Miert was in the chair.
If you can achieve that, Mr President-in-Office, if you can bring forward a coherent and precise proposal, you will also have the support of the Social Democrats.
Mr President-in-Office, every presidency runs the risk of confusing national and European interests.
The public has unfortunately gained the impression in recent months that in your case personal and political interests are also involved.
It would be dangerous for an EU presidency if personal, national and European interests were all mixed together ?
... and I hope that you will do your utmost during your presidency to make it crystal clear that you are not speaking as an Italian Prime Minister with a political axe to grind, but as the President of the Council of the European Union.
If you do that, even if we may follow your progress with a critical eye, we will nevertheless support you in your work.
(Applause)
