Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Oostlander.
This is a splendid report, which lists all the critical points without offending Turkey.
It is fair and open, and I believe that anyone applying for accession has the right to be treated fairly and openly.
Second, I would like to contradict both of the previous speakers.
It is not - as is written in the minority opinion - about precepts of an almost parareligious nature; clause 3 states specifically that fundamental European values, although based on the Judeo-Christian legacy, but also encompassing the values of the Enlightenment, do not stand in the way of the accession of a Muslim state in principle.
In view of what you, Mr Nordmann and Mrs Maes, have just said with regard to secularism in Turkey, I can only call upon you to inform yourselves!
There is no freedom of religion, and there is no secularism along French lines.
Secularism in Turkey means 130 000 state employees monitoring and harassing the non-Muslim minority.
There are no rights for Christian religions in Turkey.
Separation of state and religion is one thing, but guaranteeing freedom of religion is another.
It is an inalienable part of the European system of values that every individual should be allowed to live according to his or her religion and practise it.
In Turkey, this is not guaranteed.
Until 1954, it was a punishable offence to provide religious instruction.
I therefore really entreat you to inform yourselves on this issue.
The other points mentioned were the role of the army, minority rights for the Kurds, the right to vote, in other words the fact that the 10% hurdle is still in place, the imprisonment of persons motivated by political or moral conviction such as Leyla Zana, who will soon have spent ten years in prison for speaking freely, or the issue of the heritage of the Armenians and Syrians, which is not protected at present in Turkey.
It is a long list, and one that Turkey must work through.
That is its obligation.
I especially welcome the point made in clause 52 of the report that, in the light of the Copenhagen decision, this is not the start of negotiations.
For this to happen, the conditions must be met.
This will be reviewed at the end of 2004.
I also agree with the fact that the review is not to take place now, but at the end of 2004.
Furthermore, as an interim report, this report can in no way signify that Parliament has committed itself one way or another with regard to a later decision to approve or reject Turkey's application for accession.
