Mr President, if I am not mistaken all of those who have drafted motions or spoken in this debate so far are from the Romance part of Europe.
This shows the particular solidarity that they feel, but I actually also want to make it clear that this problem of Venezuela concerns all Europeans to at least some degree.
Venezuela is a country that plays a significant role, and not only in economic terms thanks to its raw materials, oil and many other natural resources.
It is a country that has made a very considerable contribution to the political stability of the Andean region over a very long period of time.
That is why I welcome the efforts that Europe is making to help this country to recover its internal stability by intervening here.
I should particularly like to thank Mr Salafranca and others for being so ready to take on this task time and time again, and I believe that there are two points in this motion that are very significant.
Firstly, emphasis is placed on the role of the Friends of Venezuela, this group of countries that is making a particular effort to offer mediation here.
Two countries in the European Union, namely Spain and Portugal, belong to this group and have a special responsibility here, which they are responding to magnificently.
I should like to thank them for this and say that the European Union hopes that Spain and Portugal really can play a pivotal and positive role here, and I am convinced that they will do so.
Secondly, the motion stresses how important it is for the European Parliament itself to have a presence on the spot.
I should like to underline this request and say that the European Parliament certainly does not want to interfere in politics the world over, but it does wish to offer good mediation services wherever a reasonably well-functioning democracy is in danger because it is under threat from populism on the one hand and fear and uncertainty on the other.
The various different political forces need to be brought together around one table, because only by strengthening the rule of law, only by strengthening the institutions, but also only by strengthening pluralism in this troubled country will we once again be able to avoid a serious crisis there, and the lasting damage that this would do to that country and the region as a whole.
As I said, I would therefore appeal for the European Parliament's offer to act as a mediator to be accepted.
I do not mean that we want to go around telling other nations what to do.
We do not have the right to do that, but we do have the duty to make our good offices available and to act as mediators.
