Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have adopted a clear position on the ECB Governing Council's proposal, Commissioner, but the Commission, unfortunately, has not done so.
You have shied away from it!
We want the Council of Heads of State or Government to devise and adopt a different model, with other weighting criteria being used in this context.
The draft on changes to the voting modalities proposed by the ECB Governing Council and endorsed by the European Commission, is unnecessary and unjust.
It is unnecessary because we are certainly not under the time pressure that you, Commissioner, have described.
Summer 2006, in a best-case scenario, is theoretically the earliest that we will achieve a figure of 15 eurozone members.
We therefore do have enough time.
With this model, you will create a two-class system among the members of the ECB Governing Council, with the governors of the smaller countries' central banks suffering a severe curtailment of their rights.
In a single currency zone, it is essential for every member of the ECB Governing Council to have a permanent and equal vote.
To ensure that this is guaranteed in future too, and thus to retain the existing rules, we have proposed that other weighting criteria should be used.
Our colleague Dr Friedrich has already spoken about this.
My proposal to use population as one of these criteria has not found support among a majority in the committee so far this time.
Since the rules have to be agreed unanimously, there will be no movement without a compromise.
The rotation system, Commissioner, is a bad compromise.
I have proposed that in addition to a simple majority of votes, at least half the population of the Member States of the eurozone must be represented.
This will avoid majority decisions being taken in the ECB Governing Council without taking sufficient account of the economic realities in the European Union.
Population as a criterion is more appropriate and more representative, for a variety of reasons, than other criteria such as the relative size of the financial services sector or GDP.
Current and precise population figures are available for all Member States; they are calculated on a per capita and therefore absolutely comparable basis, and take account of the fact that the primary focus of a rational monetary policy based on the EU treaties must not be on the capital markets, but on the people affected by it.
