Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I can tell the Commissioner that the communication has already achieved one thing, and that is a broad-based process of discussion and consultation with all the groups affected.
That is to be welcomed.
Over the years, the European Union has brought into being and implemented many directives and regulations relating to pesticides, some about the marketing of them, others about banning them from being marketed, but also about their use.
So I see it as high time that the existing rules were implemented in full and their effectiveness assessed.
The approval system needs to be improved.
I see Community-wide licensing procedures for marketing as one of the indispensable principles of the common internal market.
Substances permitted in such places as Italy, Luxembourg and Belgium cannot be banned in Austria or Germany.
As far as I am concerned, a mere strategy of reduction - Mrs Van Brempt, in her report, proposes a reduction of 50% - is not efficient.
Any reduction in the quantities used will always be dependent on the effectiveness of the means used.
It is self-evident that integrated husbandry has become part of everyday agricultural life.
Methods of cultivation using low levels of pesticide use must be promoted and developed more vigorously, with risks being minimised and the protection of rural cultures - which is so necessary - being ensured.
This is what makes counterproductive the prevention of professional and targeted application of pesticides using helicopters.
Airborne plant protection means that a committee of experts takes integrated plant protection as its basis when deciding whether this treatment should be applied, and, if so, when and with how much.
I see that as safer than if every small-time vinedresser or winegrower decides for himself and ends up on a steep slope right in a cloud of the plant protection agent he is spraying.
I am firmly opposed to the introduction of levies and taxes on plant protection agents.
Increased cost means weaker competitiveness rather than leading to any real reduction in the use of pesticides.
Let me say in conclusion that it is not acceptable that the European agricultural sector should be able to import from third countries foodstuffs and feedingstuffs treated with active agents prohibited in the EU.
