Mr President, Commissioner Reding, Commissioner Lamy, on behalf of my group and, I am sure, of the whole of this House's Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, I welcome the Commission's decision not to make any offer to deregulate educational, cultural and audiovisual services in this GATS round.
Although we emphatically want borders to be opened up to international trade, there is a fundamental distinction to be drawn between cultural services and others, such as those in telecommunications, transport, or, indeed, finance.
This makes it necessary to anchor this special role played by cultural and audiovisual services in the social and political cohesion of peoples in the relevant laws on contract.
Culture must not be made subject to the rules of the market or to commercial law; instead, we need regulation that takes into consideration what is appropriate to each area, and so we have to find a global solution to enable Article 151(4) of our European Treaties to be the means whereby Europe's, and the world's, cultural diversity is secured and supported in the long term and in a sustainable way.
It is for this reason that we need a two-phase process in the future.
The Commission is to be thanked for setting out the first phase in today's proposal that GATS should not cover the provision of cultural and audiovisual services.
The second stage goes beyond that, and I want to say how grateful I am to Commissioner Reding, who, with this in mind, is representing the Commission's and Parliament's views - and, I hope, the Council's - in the international discussions and working parties on the subject.
There is a need for us to devise our own international convention, an international instrument of our own, if the future of cultural diversity is to be secured.
Excellent work has already been done in this area by the Council of Europe, Unesco and, especially, the Francophone Conference.
I am quite sure that, by strengthening cultural diversity across the world in this way, we could effectively allay people's fears of globalisation, whilst at the same time enhancing and advancing worldwide intercultural dialogue - the need for which we are, in these times, more aware than ever.
