Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to start by thanking our rapporteur, Mrs Corbey, for the work she has done on this report and on the proposals that are on the table.
We have just heard how the way we deal with packaging has a decisive part to play in shaping the future of our environment, and how there is - of course - a market in this field, one in which the big packaging groups are competing with one another, so that we have to give some thought as to how we achieve an optimum level of effectiveness.
Within this market there are specialities, which represent the opportunities offered by diversity in Europe.
Where these are concerned we have stressed the need for this great pot to safeguard the interests, futures and chances of survival of the small firms, scattered throughout Europe, working in the ceramics sector and producing highly-prized packaging such as that for Meaux mustard and similar goods.
To describe them as an industry would be an exaggeration, in that they have between 30 and 50 workers each.
It is for this reason that the keynote of our amendments is that the directive should not cover packaging materials which cannot be utilised for energy recovery owing to their material quality, which are inert, and the quantities of which do not exceed 0.1% of the proven quantity of packaging in the Community, and for which material or raw material recycling is ruled out for ecological and cost-benefit reasons.
We have just heard from the Commissioner - and for this we are grateful - that the packaging directive's recycling order will not apply to ceramics.
There must, of course, be a place for ceramics in the packaging directive, but recycling it would mean that it would have to be transported back across Europe, in minimal quantities, in order for this to be done.
Systems for its return, collection and recovery would have to be introduced.
That would kill off small businesses.
We cannot believe that Europe is about enacting directives that cut away the economic basis from under small firms that offer speciality goods that are highly prized in Europe.
I thank you for your unambiguous statement, which is something we can build on, and which will also give the firms a certain amount of breathing space and a reliable prospect of future development.
