Mr President, Commissioner, today, biotechnology offers new health policy perspectives which are very welcome.
This also applies to the use of human tissue and cells.
We should capitalise on the positive opportunities afforded by these new developments as far as possible, even if it is clear that from today's perspective, the prospects are not always as promising as is suggested in some quarters.
However, we should certainly utilise the opportunities.
The use of these new technologies must, however, be measured against the fundamental principles and rules which define the community of values that constitutes the European Union.
A fundamental pillar of this community of values is the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union.
Its basic values include, in particular, respect for human dignity, the principle of non-commercialisation of the human body, and the guarantee that cell and tissue donations may take place only on a voluntary basis, without pressure, and with an understanding of all the implications.
Since the Commission's proposal touches only on these issues, the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, which is designated as being responsible for ethical issues in this House, has adopted a number of relevant amendments.
In our view, it is absolutely essential to make it clear that, as in the legislation on donations of blood and blood components, the provision of human tissue and cells should be permitted only on a donation basis, in order to counter any trend towards the commercialisation and objectivisation of the human body.
Let me make it clear: donations of human tissue or cells may only take place voluntarily and without any financial remuneration.
They must also be anonymous, and persons who cannot legally give consent themselves require special protection, for their bodies may not be disrespected, and it must be clear that donations may only be used in the interests of their own health, not for research purposes.
I am thinking specifically of disabled people here.
Let me underline one point in particular: respect for the traditions and cultural differences within the European Union requires that in this law too, Member States must be granted the right to ban the donation and use of cells from specific origins.
This applies particularly to the renunciation of the use of embryonic stem cells in favour of adult stem cells, which have been shown to be just as useful and, indeed, more promising in many cases.
There is, however, a number of proposed amendments which I cannot support under any circumstances, and where I am absolutely of the same opinion as Mr Caudron, who unfortunately has already left.
These are the amendments which try, through the back door, to circumvent abortion, and I think this is something which we cannot accept under any circumstances.
