Mr President, in the Convention - and this has already been mentioned several times today - we are holding intensive discussions on abolishing the old comitology system.
I believe that the end result will indeed move in this direction.
Why are we doing this?
That too has already been mentioned.
We are doing it because the old system of comitology has essentially resulted in underground law, produced by way of methods that are undemocratic, and above all, lacking in transparency.
No one in the outside world knows what is done, how it is done or why it is done.
Above all, no one in the outside world knows what positions have been put forward here, by whom or why.
We have to change this.
That is why we will, in the Convention, be abolishing the old comitology system, but - and this too has already been mentioned - this is only possible if we have something with which to replace it.
We need delegated lawmaking, but we need delegated lawmaking with clear responsibilities, with clear rules of delegation, with mandates that are clearly understood, and above all with the possibility of recall, an equal right of recall for both the Council and Parliament.
In this context I have already referred several times to our discussions in the Convention.
Our concern is to ensure that the people of Europe have a clear picture of who is exercising legislative powers, why and for what reason, and the results that emerge on this point will soon be available as a constitutional proposal.
This does not however make the work on the Corbett report superfluous; quite the opposite.
Until we have included this result in the constitution and implemented it, we need the results of the Corbett report, which are to a large extent along the same lines as what has been said in the Convention.
With this in mind not only do we congratulate the rapporteur but we also hope that the resulting proposals will be accepted as unanimously as possible and that an appropriate reform of the way in which this important issue is dealt with will allow them to replace the old, undemocratic system of comitology for the next few years.
