Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hans-Peter Martin is right.
There are not very many of us in the Chamber.
We do not know how many people are watching this in their offices and we do not know how many people would watch if we could broadcast this sitting on the Internet.
If it were even possible to use video streaming to play this sitting at an agreeable time of day, then I think the hits on our web page would rocket, and it would be possible for people to analyse and monitor what goes on here more transparently and also much more effectively.
What do we need?
It has to be quicker; it has to be more efficient.
We need search engines that direct people to the right place as quickly as possible on the basis of key words.
Entering 'Hans-Peter Martin', 'Paul Rübig', 'e-commerce' and 'participants present' ought to take you straight to this sitting.
I think that our world has changed, that the networked society is actually already a reality.
It has been possible to complete bureaucratic formalities, conduct business and so on electronically for a long time, but some of the necessary prerequisites are lacking.
When the WTO negotiations take place in Cancun in the autumn we need to ask ourselves: to what extent has world trade been liberalised?
If Hans-Peter Martin clicks on a home page now and wants to order a book from America or a certain piece of software, what barriers and what bureaucracy will he have to contend with?
What duties will have to be paid and above all, what is the postal service going to do about shipping and delivery costs, which are currently completely unreasonable for small parcels?
We need more competition in the postal services sector.
We need secure payment systems, we need a system of damages that protects customers from fraud, and we need e-money that enables us to pay as if paying with cash.
Applying the banknotes system to e-money is something that we are definitely going to need to do in the future.
Finally, we also need a Europe-wide investigation into the obstacles to using these new technologies.
