Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are not debating today whether gene technology has a right to exist in this world.
Neither are we discussing whether it is right for there to be genetically modified food in the USA, Mexico, Canada or Europe.
There already is.
Had we not wanted this, we would have had to take action around twenty years ago and conclude a worldwide agreement.
We did not do so.
This means that we now have to ensure that we put a legal framework in place.
What should the legal framework contain?
It needs to state that there is research and that a product shall be completely safe and harmless according to current scientific knowledge.
What we expect of any food colouring and any emulsifier in yoghurt is also what we expect of genetically modified food and seed, no more and no less.
We have repeatedly said that it will take a package of measures to assemble a reasonable body of legislation in the European Union.
The first part was Mr Bowe's report on the release directive several years ago.
It was always, however, clear to us that this was not enough, that something more was needed in addition to the release of food, seed or plants.
What is actually needed is for the processed plants to be labelled so that the people of the European Union have freedom of choice, which incidentally they also have in respect of any other foodstuff, for example with the fat content of milk or with other foods.
They should be able to exercise their right to choose.
No one has countered what has been said here by saying that genetically modified food is the work of the devil and no one is scaremongering.
We simply say always that products have to be safe according to current scientific knowledge.
We are trying to ensure that this is the case.
And we are trying to ensure that food is comprehensively labelled.
We have heard that a threshold is arbitrary and we know that this is the case.
Whether it is 0.5% or 0.9% I really do not care.
I would like us to have comprehensive legislation as quickly as possible and the reports by Mrs Scheele and Mr Trakatellis are valuable and necessary contributions to achieving this.
Then we will also have the security in the European Union of being able to say to the Americans and all of the others: yes, you can produce and export to the European Union, but on our conditions and in accordance with our legislation!
We owe this to the people of the European Union; that is our job as their elected representatives.
