Mr President, Mr Schnellhardt has stated that I am organising a campaign for a moratorium on buying GM products.
That is utter nonsense.
Consumers are making it clear - and saying so in every survey - that they do not want GM products.
So far, industry has been able to slip GM foods past the consumers on the quiet; now, the food manufacturers have to tell them the truth about their products, so if the de-facto moratorium is lifted, we will be in a completely new situation.
Labelling has now arrived, so that consumers can make known their feelings - whether for or against - about this type of food.
For the GM industry, the litmus test is not to do with whether or not they get authorisation from the EU, nor is it the procedural hurdles; it is whether or not consumers will buy these products.
It is the market that is the litmus test; it is the market that will decide.
I do not fear the end of this moratorium - far from it.
You have to ask yourselves why it is that not one single manufacturer has, so far, put these products on the market labelled as such.
Manufacturers will watch as these products do an economic nosedive.
If these products have to be labelled, the manufacturers will have to tell the truth about them.
It is the consumers themselves who will bring in a moratorium on buying them.
The Commission has also accepted responsibility when it comes to lifting the moratorium.
Commissioner Wallström, at the time of the directive on release into the environment, you told us that liability would be incorporated in the environmental liability directive, but it was not.
My final point is that, earlier in the debate, I asked the Commissioner to say something about the rules on seeds.
My fear is that this House is being tricked.
I urge the Commission to make a statement about this, because Parliament's voice is not being heard on the subject.
Will there be a limit value of zero for seeds as is already the practice in a number of states?
Is it not technically avoidable?
I ask you to speak and account for this.
