Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, the Italian Presidency's programme is not really available.
I had to download it from the web and read it in English this morning.
Fortunately, I understand English, but I regret that I do not understand Italian.
But I would not have needed very much English to read what I found in your programme about environmental policy, because there was not really anything to read.
You said a few nice friendly things that could easily have been copied from a daily paper.
As you referred to the Lisbon process, I would like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office, whether you are aware that the Lisbon process calls for sustainability and environmental measures to be incorporated into all other areas of policy?
If you are aware of that, could you please tell me how you intend to achieve it?
I would also be grateful if you could confirm that your government has issued a paper entitled Environment as an Opportunity, which envisages that the Italian Presidency should use these six months to limit EU environmental legislation and downgrade it.
If that is correct, Mr Berlusconi, I presume that you will have the paper pulped immediately and condemn it as being illegal.
I would also be grateful if you could tell me whether you will use your presidency to ensure that existing EU legislation is transposed into Italian law, as in the case of environmental impact assessment, for instance.
I would be grateful if you could tell us, Mr Berlusconi, whether people who do not comply with that legislation will be the subject of criminal prosecution, because non-compliance is an offence, and I also call on the Commission to take appropriate action if it is aware of such non-compliance.
Lastly, Mr Berlusconi, I would be grateful if you could tell me if during your presidency you will also be pursuing the environmental legislation for which you will be responsible, and in particular whether environmental responsibility will be on the agenda during your presidency.
I would be grateful if you could explain how you intend to take that forward.
