Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the extension of the ecopoint system is not just about special treatment for Austria, it is not about continuing to make life difficult for Europe's hauliers, and nor is it about making a mockery of the free movement of goods.
Austria has no desire to set these rules in stone for the rest of recorded time.
What Europe needs is a sustainable solution to its transport problems.
For years, none has been found; the transit issue is a ten-year saga of omissions by one side and then by the other.
To this day, the transport infrastructure costs directive is not officially speaking on the table, and, to this day, the objective set out in the Transit Agreement, of a lasting and sustainable reduction in pollution, has not been fulfilled.
It is for this reason that Austria needs transitional arrangements to be enshrined in a treaty.
What the proposals by the Committee on Regional Policy, Transport and Tourism mean, as does the free run for HGVs in European category 3 that it is looking to implement, is that Austria is going, in the fullest sense of the word, to be overrun.
There are parts of my country in which pollution as a result of transit traffic has reached levels that people and their environment cannot be expected to endure.
In the event of the committee's proposals coming to fruition, Austria's citizens will, quite literally, be driven on to the streets.
I therefore ask you to support Amendment No 19, which has been tabled by a number of Members of this House from different political groups, as it prevents the worst from coming to pass and will represent a workable compromise in negotiations with the Council.
Here and now, I appeal to the Council not to delay the conciliation procedure.
Europe needs a directive on transport infrastructure costs; European policy needs instruments for a sustainable transport policy; Austria, in the meantime, needs a transitional arrangement.
The majority in this House may well turn a deaf ear to these concerns, but their doing so will mean that Europe will be doing the people of Austria a disservice.
