Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Police Office having functioned for ten years as an intergovernmental institution of control, European policing is now to be put on a Community-wide basis.
Some may object that Europol is thereby being transferred from the third pillar to the first and thus being removed still further from the European nation states' control.
That is both true and irrelevant, for the character of the Police Office is not determined by which state body is meant to be controlling it.
The new plans for Europol are even more repellent than policemen are in any case required to be.
In any case, it is the police who, by upholding public order, enforce all the constraints of employment and citizenship.
It would be ridiculous for this Chamber to lament such an utterly vile stunt, as these are constraints of which you all approve!
Even if you are unwilling to understand rational criticism of bourgeois society, you can - if you want to be bourgeois humanists, refuse to endorse these plans, for Europol's true nature is apparent from its areas of responsibility.
Pride of place goes to the efficient organisation of Fortress Europe, in other words deportation for outsiders and the maximum of control within the European area, so free and secure and just as it is.
Not only people-smugglers and dealers will be affected by this.
It is irrelevant whether they do what they do as a matter of conviction or because capitalism obliges them to.
More and more citizens will find themselves targeted by the Persecution Authority, for communitisation will enable the Euro-police to be deployed more flexibly, and Europol's competences will be capable of being extended by a simple Council resolution.
Its operational powers will be introduced along with communitisation, representing the final step towards the completion of an EU police force with the powers of a secret service.
In any case, communitisation makes the police force even more important.
To be sure, the Europol convention has to be done away with and replaced, but by a protocol abolishing it rather than by creating the legal basis for even more surveillance.
