Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the enlargement of the European Union will change the political landscape.
From May 2004, future members such as Latvia, Lithuania and Poland will share external borders with Belarus, a country contiguous with the European Union, one that is part of the legacy of the Soviet Union's collapse, and one that can, alas, be described, politically, economically and legally speaking, as a problem case lagging behind everyone else.
We cannot regard with indifference the regression of a country, soon to be a neighbour to the European Union, into an authoritarian and dictatorial regime.
Belarus is increasingly cutting itself off.
We see this in the failure to extend the OSCE mission in Minsk.
The Council of Europe refuses to let Belarus become a member.
Thus, Belarus' isolation is increasing, and so the situation remains utterly unchanged.
Parliament's attempt, by means of a report, at exerting some influence, is therefore to be welcomed, even if only because it sends out a signal to encourage the democratic opposition forces, which, although weak, are nonetheless still there, to show signs of life in the forthcoming local elections in March.
Any country excluding itself in this way from European development cannot do other than become a security problem for the European Union.
Because of the de facto lack of security on the border with its Russian neighbour, with which it has close economic and political ties, Belarus is a main transit country for illegal immigrants travelling from Russia to the EU.
In terms of illegal immigration, it is to be regarded as more important as a transit country than as a country of origin.
There is thus a clearly perceptible trend towards migration into Austria from the Indian subcontinent and Iraq by way of Belarus and the Ukraine.
Over recent months, Minsk has created problems for flights to Austria.
Increased numbers of illegal immigrants have been intercepted at Vienna's Schwechat airport, having travelled from Iraq and India and flown from Minsk.
A structured dialogue - as soon as circumstances permit - is thus very much to be desired.
