Mr President, before my speaking time starts, I would just like to clarify that Mrs Stihler spoke as the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, and would like to thank the House for the support given to Mrs Jöns's report.
The Committee on Women's Rights and Equal Opportunities calls in the report for the fight against breast cancer to become a health policy priority for the EU.
High-quality screening, diagnosis, treatment and aftercare for breast cancer must form an integrated whole and be provided in Member States.
With the Commission's support, this can be done by 2008 in accordance with our proposal.
In Europe, a woman dies of breast cancer every 20 minutes.
In Germany, every year 46 000 women suffer from this disease and 19 000 die from it.
Breast cancer affects women at the height of their professional and family responsibilities.
In women between the ages of 35 and 55, breast cancer is still the most common cause of death.
On behalf of my group, I should very much like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Jöns.
Her work has a very positive influence, not only because of her own victory over breast cancer, but also because she is fighting for all women in the European Union to receive the best possible treatment.
Our aims are high-quality national screening and the establishment of breast centres.
The relevant guidelines have already been developed by the European Society for Mastology, the European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer and Europa Donna.
Now it is a question of transposing them quickly.
The multidisciplinary breast centres shall bring together radiologists, oncologists, pathologists, psychologists and surgeons, who will consult with the patient on the best method of treatment for her.
In Sweden, the United Kingdom and the Netherlands a nation-wide screening programme has led to a 30% reduction in the mortality rate.
We have now been allocated EUR 400 million in the sixth framework programme of research.
At the earliest possible opportunity, national cancer registers should be set up so that we may finally have informative data about the possible influence of risk factors like tobacco, diet, life-style and environment on the development of cancer.
This is particularly important with regard to breast cancer.
We do of course clash with other interest groups.
In my native state of Bavaria, for example, we are taking a different path because X-raying is going to be left to general practitioners.
It is only in accordance with the EU guidelines, however, that optimal treatment can be attained.
Only when the attending physician reads at least 5 000 mammograph screenings per year does he acquire enough training and experience to recognise breast cancer when it is between five and seven millimetres.
Those who do not support this are concerned only with the interests of their professional groups and not with our goal of saving thousands of women's lives.
Every seventh or eighth woman will be affected.
We can count through each row here and see how many of us that will be.
