Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am able to say, speaking on behalf of my group, that we strongly support this initiative, and I wish, through you, to extend warm thanks to the Commission, which evidently takes the same view.
The fact is that it is only together that we can reach the goal that is set before us - that of more protection for the rights of audiovisual artists.
I regret the fact that we did not have time to discuss these issues in committee, but time is pressing upon us, 18 June is getting closer, and it is right that we should today send a strong signal of our resolve to see the WIPO Treaties supplemented as soon as possible in order to bridge this gap and finally bring about the legal protection that audiovisual artists need.
I would like, therefore, to suggest that the Commission should forward to us, not only here in plenary in good time before the conference, but also after it in the relevant specialist committee, a report on the outcome of the negotiations and on the progress that - it is to be hoped - will have been achieved.
Should you come up against serious difficulties in preparing for the conference, I would say that we needed, as soon as the next meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport, to receive a report on the subject from the Commission, that is to say, one with comprehensive information before and after the deliberations, so that we can in fact take this matter forward.
Please allow me to draw your attention to a point that I regard as crucial, but which does not put a question mark against our fundamental support.
I refer to the issue of the relationship of artists to those who play the most important part in transmitting their artistic performances, that is, the radio and television stations.
It is, I think, something of an over-simplification to say that the radio and television stations do not create works, but do nothing more than consume them.
What I would like to make clear in this regard is that what is at issue here is exclusivity.
This is, of course, primarily about artists and the protection of their work, and it is precisely that loophole that the law has to close, but I do think that it is also important that we should find a way of bringing on board potentially competing interests, so that they do not, overtly or covertly, tend to prevent us from finding a solution to the problems.
So we wish you good luck with the negotiations, and ask that you keep Parliament informed about what comes out of them.
