Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after almost one and a half years of debate on the White Paper and therefore on our transport policy strategy, we now have a report that is by and large capable of winning a majority.
Our thanks go to the rapporteur for his successful consensus-building, which is always an arduous task.
The White Paper itself certainly deserves the epithet strategic, because it keeps in view the idea of optimising European transport as a whole and because it underpins its objective of achieving a balanced distribution of transport needs across transport modes with around 60 specific individual measures.
The exact same number - exactly 60 - of specific legislative proposals are still gathering dust in the Council.
That is the reality of transport policy and I think it is a scandal.
Purely arithmetically speaking we are therefore practically back in 1992, at the beginning of the process of implementing the last White Paper.
I should like to stress two points today.
Firstly, we urgently need a compromise on matters concerning Galileo.
There is a danger that the deadlock will call into question one of our flagship projects in transport and industrial policy.
It is surely absurd that first no Member State wanted to pay and now they are arguing about whether more should be paid.
In terms of development, we were three years ahead of the American GPS3 system.
We frittered away one year, the Americans are catching up another year by pumping in huge investment, and if we do not get our skates on we will forfeit the success of the project that we are so eagerly awaiting.
Secondly, there is a lot of movement in the European skies and this is now reflected in our legislation.
Now that the single sky project has been kicked into the right orbit, we would encourage the Commission to complete its open skies strategy, even if this runs counter to national interests, because we need a single European sky.
One more point to finish with: we actually ought not to have debates on transport policy every ten years, but on a continuous basis, including here in the plenary and, as we are doing today, at a reasonable hour.
