Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in January of this year, my staff, together with the Spanish authorities, visited the affected areas in Spain that are under discussion today and agreed that the funds provided for the final decommissioning of ships, for the modernisation of the vessels and for the setting-up of joint ventures, are being used in a satisfactory way.
The same cannot be said, however, for the way funds are being used on social measures, and this is where there are problems.
The reason why the fishermen are not making full use of the funds provided for social measures is that they are unable to fulfil certain of the conditions in our regulation.
The fact is that fishermen who have lost their jobs because of the failure to extend the Agreement with Morocco, receive a compensation payment only if their employer allows his ship to be broken up or if he sets up a joint enterprise.
If, though the ship continues to fish in other third-country waters - or indeed in Community waters - for example, under a private licence, they are not entitled to any payment in compensation.
That is also essentially logical, as such ships are still active in the fisheries sector and it can therefore be assumed that their crews continue to be employed.
We have now agreed with the Spanish authorities that they will inform the Commission as to where and for what reasons social problems arise as a result of ships not being broken up, and no entitlement to structural funds exists.
On the subject of items 1 and 2 in your motion for a resolution, I can, then, tell honourable Members that we will come to a decision without delay as soon as we have all the data we have requested from the Spanish Government and have the opportunity to examine it.
Item 3 of your resolution does, of course, have something to do with this.
If the Commission comes to the conclusion that we should decide in favour, we will of course also modify the repayment of some of these sums in such a way as to ensure that the fishermen receive equal treatment.
