Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, you may be quite sure that the European Parliament will play its part with all the power at its disposal and with great commitment - a commitment shared by all the groups and by all the committees that are particularly concerned with Heading III, because it involves over thirty codecision procedures that will be affected by these decisions.
Being conscious of the political responsibility involved in ensuring that the timetable for enlargement is kept to, we have also indicated our willingness to adapt the financial perspective, and to do so if possible before the enlargement agreements are put to the vote.
It is quite clear, though, that you can take it as read, in view of the manifest legal problems that we have to work through at present, and of the opinions and interpretations with which experts have provided us, that we will do everything possible to save and defend Parliament's rights within the institutional structure.
No decision will be taken here on the basis of an exchange of rights for money.
In tomorrow's trialogue, the Council has the choice of doing a deal with us or accepting responsibility for the legal, institutional and budgetary problems that the coming months and years will bring.
It is obvious that, despite all their efforts, the Commission and the Council have underestimated the institutional dead-end into which their stubborn refusal to let go of Annex XV and its integration into primary law have led us all.
This is not just about Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement, but about the many statements that were constantly being made on the basis of last November's agreement, and about common statements arising from many codecision procedures on the multiannual programmes, which repeatedly declared that adjustment of the financial perspective would, at this point in time, be carried out on a joint basis.
Mr President, please permit me another reference to Heading VII.
It is important to me that we hold fast to the de facto impossibility of carrying out a revision by transferring the aid programme for Turkey from Heading IV to Heading VII and then leaving everything in Heading VII just as it is.
We therefore still regard adaptation of Heading VII as a precondition.
This is about pre-accession aid, but also about special and privileged partnerships with the European Union's neighbours.
It is with this in mind that we will, tomorrow, try to negotiate constructively and find a way on which we can agree.
