Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to echo the numerous words of thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Ayuso González.
She has negotiated really very energetically and with great skill in this field.
I should also like to thank the Commissioner once more for tabling an ambitious proposal.
We all regret the fact that the proposal as tabled by the Commission and with the improvements made by Parliament at first reading was not adopted, but we are already making progress.
The advantages of extending the use of renewable raw materials to the transport sector have already been mentioned many times.
They include cutting emissions, reducing our dependence on oil and above all creating more jobs in farming and rural areas.
I regret the fact - and I must say this quite openly here - that no one from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance has taken the floor, because the Greens have after all expressed rather critical views in the debate and I had thought that we might perhaps discuss this again here today.
I think it is right that we need to take into account the environmental impact of biofuels, but we must not be one-sided.
I might simply remind you of the tanker disasters that we have had in recent years.
If these tankers had been carrying biofuels then the damage would, God knows, not have been as devastating, and biofuels do not need to be transported across the oceans either.
We want to promote innovation in this sector.
That is why Mr Purvis was right to say that efficient and environmentally friendly fuels must be given particular support.
I would add that the first step is to start promoting them at all.
I fully endorse the criticism of the Council, as expressed by Mrs Rothe among others.
I think it is regrettable that we cannot go further, and I will say quite explicitly something that perhaps Mrs Rothe cannot say in so many words: I am also particularly disappointed by the German Government.
The Germans were not the only ones who put the brakes on, but they also had every reason to adopt a rather more constructive attitude towards the Commission proposal and our position from the first reading.
