Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the thoroughly positive effects that Europol's excellent work makes possible is the high visibility of the European Union's internal security policy.
We must, however, seek to adapt Europol's position to its present tasks, and to give it the best working conditions possible.
This, though, is where we have the problem referred to earlier, in that, even though we transfer functions to the EU level, we still have to use the tools provided by intergovernmental cooperation, because that is what the legal base requires, and we need unanimous resolutions.
We will, tomorrow, decide to enlarge the European Union to twenty-five Member States by adding another ten, and, when we have done that, we will have to give some thought to whether this arsenal can indeed remain functional when there are twenty-five Member States.
My fear is that Europol is no longer able to perform its functions, and no further amendments will be feasible if we wait for twenty-five states to ratify the convention.
So it is the debates currently in progress that once again call on us to emphatically demand what the two rapporteurs have demanded in their joint report - the necessity of securing for the future Europol's existence and that of the European Union's security policy.
We must therefore press home the demand for those things envisaged by the rapporteurs - communitisation, that is to say, transfer to the first pillar; control, as is necessary, by Parliament; allocation of the budget to the European level, and, most essentially, the transfer, subject to appropriate controls, of operational competences.
What other speakers have already mentioned must of course be added to this - namely, more intensive coordination between the computer data systems that we have, in order to conduct investigations into organised crime and criminality in an even more efficient manner.
We have no more need of systems that work in parallel or that hinder each other; what we need instead is one system, to be used in the same way by all, combined with a single system of data protection.
Here is a wealth of options, of which we may well be aware, but of which we must now make use if they are to be implemented with the help of the Convention documents and with full backing and support from all parties in the European Parliament.
