Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the draft directive put before us today marks a great leap forwards in the realisation of our European Community, for it will be through EU citizens enjoying freedom of movement that we will achieve our objective.
What the directive has in mind is that journeys by EU citizens between the Member States should be subject to the same conditions as those undertaken within individual Member States, in other words, the intention is to demolish the remaining barriers and surmount the bureaucratic and political hurdles and obstacles that block the way to freedom of movement.
This leads me, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, to emphatically endorse the Commission proposal and the refinements and modifications that our esteemed rapporteur has made to it.
Such is our objective towards which we are journeying, and I am convinced that we can reach that objective providing that certain conditions are complied with.
I was disappointed by the way in which certain Members, in this debate on the great issue of freedom of movement, focussed their attention, to the exclusion of all else, on the definition of what we are meant to mean by 'family'.
Although this is just a small part of the whole, and needs to be discussed, we should bid farewell to the view that a select few know what is meant by 'family', and that their definition should be imposed on all other Members of this House or on the Member States.
That is not acceptable.
We should arrive at a compromise, and do so by accepting the fact that the various states have different conceptions of this and make different arrangements for it.
What we should not be doing is allowing the few to take it upon themselves to impose their concept and definition of the family on all the other states.
If we can manage to stand back and arrive at consensus by accepting individual Member States' diverse arrangements, this proposal will win acceptance by a broad majority.
In the interests of EU citizens' freedom of movement, I appeal to all those who have introduced these proposals to follow where reason leads.
