Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with warm congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Salafranca.
There were reasons for this Agreement's problem-free progress through the committee and the unanimous support it received in it, for we worked together very well, not only on this Agreement but generally, and Chile's concerns have found a worthy rapporteur in the person of Mr Salafranca.
As has already been mentioned, this is an Agreement with a large number of objectives, a complete Agreement intended to cover a great deal and to bring us closer together.
The Commissioner has stated that, even while the Agreement was being worked out, bilateral trade increased by 28%, and, whilst I believe that there is room for further increases and greater cooperation, I would like to point out that the actual reason Chile deserves this special new Agreement is that it currently represents an atoll of stability in Latin America, which is so turbulent economically, politically and in other ways.
It is in our interests to maintain this stability and help to make it even more secure.
My principal interest is in the political dimension, and there are two points I would like to address at this point.
The first, the ratification of the treaty on the International Criminal Court, initially appeared to be something of a problem but has been resolved by cooperation with the Chilean embassy in Brussels and by the government's assurances.
We attach great importance to Chile's ratification of this treaty.
We are aware of the constitutional difficulties that exist at present, but, having satisfied ourselves that the government is working on it, we have hope of it being ratified soon.
The second point is that Chile is currently a member of the Security Council.
In these very difficult times, it will be very important that Chile should, in consultation and coordination with the relevant Member States of the European Union, help to achieve a peaceful solution to the present conflict.
