Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although the connection between women and sport has a long tradition in history, dating back to the first games in ancient Greece, it was only in 1928 that the decision was taken to allow women to participate in the Olympic Games.
Women's participation in sport has steadily increased since then, even though it could and should develop more quickly today.
This report focuses on women's participation in the three core areas of sport: sport in schools, sports for leisure, and competitive sport, although there are no proposals to create sporting opportunities exclusively for women in any of these areas.
The principles of gender mainstreaming should apply in sport as elsewhere.
Equality in sport is, in my view, the most important aspect of this report.
The goal of equal opportunities for school, amateur and professional sport is above all a way of improving women's integration at all these levels.
On the other hand, the importance of women's role must be recognised in sport too.
Women remain under-represented in sports administration and decision-making.
Why is it mainly men who are involved in club and association structures, even though more and more women are becoming members?
In top-level sport, this discrepancy is becoming increasingly apparent.
Here, women are not represented in the decision-making bodies in a way that is commensurate with their achievements in professional sport.
On the contrary, women are in a far more difficult position in top-level sport, especially as regards the health of women athletes.
The Community must take action here, and it must do so in cooperation with the various organisations involved in competitive sport.
It is also important, however, to consider the principle of subsidiarity.
I share the view that it is unnecessary for the Commission to establish a 'women and sport' unit, as is proposed.
There is also no budget line which could fund such a unit, and that is why I will reject Article 5 in tomorrow's vote.
I would also ask you to reject Article 32, which proposes that when the 'Television without Frontiers' Directive is amended, it should stipulate that the Member States must broadcast women's sport competitions.
There is no Europe-wide mandatory list governing the broadcasting of sporting events.
The individual Member States may, if they wish, draw up their own national lists of major sporting events which attract major public interest.
In my view, establishing such an obligation would result in over-regulation, which is not something that we as a group want to see.
That is why we will not vote in favour of Article 32 tomorrow.
Finally, I would like to congratulate Mrs Fraisse very warmly on her excellent report.
We too endorse most of the report, and we will vote in favour of it as a whole tomorrow.
