Mr President, Mr Fodé Sylla, this House gave you the very clear brief of examining whether and to what extent fundamental rights are being upheld in the Member States of the European Union.
What you have delivered is unfortunately an ideological wish list, a shopping list of left-wing ideologies.
I say 'unfortunately' because it was an important and substantial report.
We can discuss the issues you raise in it, and we can be for them or against them, but the point is that they do not belong in the report about fundamental rights and respect for these rights in the European Union.
For that reason, and as a matter of principle we, in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, will vote against this report.
You also, however, criticise a number of Member States, and as a rule you do so unfairly.
You have quite simply failed to inform yourself adequately about the real situation or you are criticising because the rules they have in place do not conform with your ideological preconceptions.
We reject the criticism - and that includes your criticism of Austria - because it is quite unjustified, and we therefore reject your report for these reasons as well.
Thirdly, I reject the report on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party because we do not support your substantive demands.
These range from the expansion of the right of asylum, to access to education and healthcare for illegal immigrants, the regularisation of the status of illegal immigrants, and recognition of the equality of all partnerships in the EU - we reject all these demands unequivocally.
Finally, we reject the report outright because of your demand that homosexual couples be given the right to adopt children.
You can think what you like about such partnerships: I tolerate them, but in the interests of the children, we must ensure that such a demand is never put into practice.
The Group of the European People's Party resolutely rejects your report for all the reasons I have stated and will vote against it.
