Mr President, Commissioner, we can also vote for discharge from the external policy point of view.
I would quite particularly like to thank Mr Casaca for his close cooperation.
You are right, Commissioner, that deconcentration or decentralisation and the strengthening of delegations have set in train a great process of reform in external policy expenditure.
This decentralisation has been a complete success, as I have seen for myself in various places.
I would, however, like to raise three problems and, in a way as a kind of peaceful preventive strategy, point out that we shall be paying quite particular attention to them.
The first is Palestine.
Criticisms are sometimes voiced here, which up until now have proved unfounded, and it is good that Parliament has set up a working party to look into these things.
Because if, as I am, we are absolutely in favour of aid to Palestine, we need to be convinced that everything is being handled correctly.
The new Finance Minister and the new Prime Minister of the Palestinian Authority are a good sign, but we will be watching things very closely.
The second is the KEDO programme.
It is of course a difficult programme, especially in times like these, but it is a very important one.
We have received a reply from the Commission for 2001, which we have noted, but with which we are of course not satisfied, and this means that we will be looking in particular at 2002 and subsequent years more closely to see whether it is ensured that our money really is being used for peaceful purposes.
That is quite crucial with regard to developments in Korea and North Korea.
The third programme is pre-accession aid.
Although you mentioned Sapard in particular, I think there are shortcomings with the other programmes too.
In view of the fact that Bulgaria and Romania will still remain even after the other countries have acceded, and that there will in all probability also be Turkey and a few Balkan countries, Croatia for example, we cannot be satisfied with amending Sapard alone.
We must structure these pre-accession aids and make them more flexible, if we are to make a success of this.
Nevertheless, we consent to the discharge for 2001, giving notice, however, that we will be following these three matters in particular very closely in the months ahead.
