Mr President, I can well imagine that the Commissioner is right about depleted uranium.
As far as I am aware, and if my memory serves me right, it even has its civilian uses, but that is something that would have to be checked.
However, as we know nothing about what long-term effects the dispersed material may have, there may be some surprises in store for us.
I would like to say something about landmines.
What we have to know about landmines that some 230 million of them are currently stored in a number of countries.
Between 70 and 100 million of them have been laid around the world.
It is unfortunate, moreover, that new ones are being laid all the time, so that great significance attaches to the issue of how we locate these landmines and destroy them, primarily in human terms - that is, about ensuring that people do not get hurt in the process - but also in economic terms - that is, about keeping costs down.
I would like to encourage the Commission to make the right use of the funds that we have inserted in the Budget for research purposes.
In recent years, we have kept on adding funds to the research framework programme for the purpose of researching new technologies for locating landmines, so they should be used for that purpose.
Progress has been made, and for that I want to express my gratitude, but these things are extraordinarily complex, and I would like again to encourage you to help, perhaps by developing some sort of multifunctional location device.
For my final comment, I turn to disarmament.
There are other things - weapons of mass destruction, for example - that have to be disposed of.
Every year, our Budget allocates some EUR 100 million to the disposal of chemical, biological and atomic weapons in the countries that formerly made up the Soviet Union.
I would like you to submit a report on this, and for us to have a debate on it or produce a statement on the subject.
After all, a great deal of money is involved and this is, above all, very much a live issue.
