Mr President, there are many areas in which the Convention is meant to move European policy into a new stage.
This topic, the position of the municipalities and regions and their involvement in European policy, is one of them.
It is my belief that both local self-government and regional identity are fundamental principles, and must be reflected as such in the European constitution.
I also wish to thank Mr Napolitano, whose task was a difficult one in view of the concepts involved being very much a matter of dispute.
In many respects, this report advances the position of the municipalities and regions and their involvement in European policy, but I am surprised that such impassioned controversy has been unleashed by the right of municipalities and regions to go to the Court of Justice.
I do think that the constitution has to give everyone who possesses a right, the additional right to approach the ECJ in Luxembourg, a right that 380 million Europeans are meant to be given by the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
To that, we all say 'yes', yet there is division in this House when it comes to the regions.
I think that further thought needs to be given to this.
No attempt whatever is made to tamper with the way states are organised internally, something that does, indeed, vary a very great deal, in that many regions possess competences, while others have merely administrative responsibilities or simply the name of 'region'.
This diversity must also be reflected when it comes to the right to appeal to the Court of Justice.
Commissioner Barnier has proposed the application of Article 203 in the event of us not succeeding in this.
That may perhaps be a way ahead, albeit only the second best.
It may be that a further stage is needed to enable us to find the best way forward.
There is something else of great importance that I would like to mention.
Commissioner Barnier, you have been to the border region that is my home.
The lives of those of us who live on the borders are still made more difficult by bureaucratic and legal obstacles, and a European statute on cross-border cooperation would be a help to many millions of people.
Reality has already burst the bounds of the legal framework, and to a substantial extent.
That is what European added value actually amounts to.
There must be room in the constitution for this sort of statute on cross-border cooperation, which will then benefit many millions of people.
I hope that a large majority will endorse the Napolitano report.
Rather than being in competition with them, Parliament exists to be the regions' and municipalities' natural partner.
