Mr President, Commissioner, there are a number of points I would very much like to deal with.
Those of my colleagues who have spoken before me have covered quite a lot, so please permit me to focus on a few aspects.
It was with interest that I read the Commission documents, as well as the various initiatives considered by the Council, which have had some influence on actual action plans.
I find it particularly interesting that we are here attempting to define an area that is at present made up of various interests and also watched over and managed by different nationalities.
To take one example, you were right to mention in the action plan the various meetings that you had with Canada and Russia.
I think that what you are undertaking in those areas is of great interest.
Like my colleagues, I would like to see Parliament more closely involved in this work.
I believe that, in defining the area, which has its own specific problems, its own specific criteria and is undergoing changes of its own, you are attempting something that has real authenticity and which also involves political dimensions such as foreign or security policy.
You have also, however, incorporated issues of health, research, infrastructure, energy and the information economy as a whole.
The remarkable thing about this is that we really are taking account of the region's specific interests, and doing so not merely from the standpoint of our European interests or coupled with them, but by actually including the Russian dimension in the discussions and taking it into consideration, just as we do with Canada.
I want to say how grateful I am for that, because it broadens to some degree the somewhat narrow view that we in Europe sometimes take, and which leads us to focus on purely European interests.
Many thanks for that.
What we ask is that you get Parliament more closely involved and attempt to find ways in which the parliaments and our counterparts in the various countries can support you in your work.
After all, we have established very good cooperation in the European Economic Area in order to give support in the workings of government and administration, and we have seen this done in several other cooperative arrangements between parliaments.
This sort of cooperation could actually be a source of strength to you, and I believe that you still need it.
There is one thing I find lacking among all the interests and diverse topics that you address.
Relevant though these are, either I have failed to spot it when reading or I have not managed to find the documents, but I find no reference to you focussing on the economic dimension of the area as a topic in its own right.
It may be that I have overlooked this, and if that is the case, I crave your indulgence.
