Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we should surely endorse the Commission's basic statements on the development of the Northern Dimension and the shape it should take in the future, including such things as the diverse subjects to be covered by future cooperation, ranging from the resolution of environmental problems to telecommunications, taking in research and technological development.
The list of partners is no less impressive than that of any previous initiative.
There can also surely be no dispute about the fact that the accession of the Baltic States to the European Union will be able to rapidly extend cooperation and move it up a gear, and that there will be greater opportunities for developing relations with Russia.
Appreciation of these and other positive aspects does not preclude critical observations, and I will limit myself to two of them.
It is, for example, striking that the Council, in producing its directives, is to some degree working on the basis of a decidedly uncritical analysis.
That has also, alas, and to a somewhat lesser degree, been true of the statements from the Commission.
An example of what I mean by this is the uncertainty still felt by many investors with a particular interest in involvement in the candidate countries and in Russia.
Deficiencies in administration and in the justice system are kept quiet for appearances' sake rather than described in terms that reflect the reality.
Surely it is more than a mere linguistic nuance to say that the efforts at rectifying abuses of this sort must not just be persevered with, but also significantly stepped up.
Secondly, development of technological infrastructure has a key part to play in relation to this major region as a whole, and there is a need for this sort of activity, which is at present still largely scattered, to be better interconnected.
Existing concepts and plans for road and rail transport need to be realised more quickly if real improvements are to be made.
To sum up, the plans made to date, and the results that have been achieved, should be seen in a very positive light.
What is now needed is for priorities to be set out more clearly than before and decisive improvements made in key areas.
