Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you, Commissioner, most warmly for making it so clear that what we are dealing with here is not of interest to Austria alone, but that this is about the legitimate enforcement of treaties between the EU and our neighbouring states.
In fact, the Commission proposal for a Council resolution on the conclusion of an agreement between the EU and Croatia deals simply with a matter of routine, the object of which is to make the present system of ecopoints applicable to transit traffic through the Republic of Austria binding upon Croatia.
Everything that has been decided about this, Commissioner, is already the subject of an agreement under international law between the European Community and the Republic of Croatia, and must therefore be adhered to even now.
It is the dates applicable under the interim agreement concluded at that time that make the submission of a resolution such a matter of urgency.
As the Agreement, as the Commissioner has said, applies to the year 2003, then, as far as implementing this exchange of letters is concerned, it is already five minutes past midnight.
We Austrians - myself included - cannot, then, understand the arguments that are often adduced against it, as we are inclined to see this as another attempt at obstructing the quest for a replacement for the ninth Transport Protocol in the treaty with Austria at the time it acceded to the EU.
Such a thing should, though, be repudiated clearly and without equivocation.
Any discussion of the ecopoint system resulting from this Common Position of the Council must be conducted in serious and reputable manner.
What we will be voting on tomorrow will be the fulfilment of an international undertaking on the part of the European Union in a manner commensurate with the EU's status as a community based on law.
This is, therefore, a duty incumbent on all of us, and so I ask all members of this House to express their approval of the Commission proposal tomorrow.
