Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the coffee crisis is symptomatic of the relationship between the countries of the South and those of the North.
The North exploits monocultures and, in order to put itself at an advantage, helps itself to the raw materials they produce, at minimum prices, under the most adverse conditions, and in a poverty-stricken environment.
Consumers' spending habits and consumer policy within the European Union also have to be borne in mind here.
Policies support the consumers' desire for raw materials from developing countries at the lowest possible prices, whilst our own agricultural policies are defended with extraordinary vigour and - I am still being polite - we concentrate on keeping prices stable.
It is inevitable that such an incongruity must come to an end, and this must form part of an action plan on the part of the European Union.
In essence, economic relations are limited to the exploitation of raw materials, coffee being only one example of this, whilst these materials are processed and utilised, thus acquiring added value through the production process, within the industrialised countries.
For as long as this incongruity persists, the economic relationship between the countries of the North and of the South will be beset by constant problems.
We talk about diversification, and rightly too, for this is an important requirement, but it must also be given substance.
It is not enough to consider this concept in isolation and see it as the cure for all ills.
We must also ask what shape this diversification is to take, and let me make clear that this will involve the possibility of raw materials being processed in the developing country in which they were produced, where, at the very least, semi-manufactured goods should also be produced, for these are the means by which added value is created.
This will also involve willingness on our part to pay a proper price for them.
Where, for example, in the European Union's institutions, can you find fairly traded coffee?
Where, too, in the political institutions of our Member States?
In which of this Parliament's bars and restaurants is fairly traded coffee served?
I could give any number of examples.
Any action plan by the Commission must of necessity include a proposal as to how goods can be fairly traded under present conditions.
I cannot see that there is a conclusive concept for this, one that would right now allow the farmers a truly fair share in their products if the existing fair trade infrastructure were to be put to use and extended.
In this area, we owe a debt to the developing countries.
I very much hope that this will meet with a response.
