Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Menrad for what is essentially a sound and conclusive report.
Once again, you have shown yourself to be a worthy champion of employees' interests.
Is this a theme for the European Union?
It certainly is!
The reason is that employee participation has an absolutely innovative character, both on the company and the employee side.
That is the approach, and that is the new philosophy, which we must adopt if we want to pursue the Lisbon objectives.
That is what I would say to the previous speaker.
Of course it is important to distinguish between specific things as Mr Menrad himself has done.
We are assuming that these are clear capital shareholdings which cannot supplement the existing wage and salaries systems.
They must be dealt with separately, and that is a factor.
We are assuming, and this has already been expounded upon, that the participation sector or participation in the industrial sector will therefore become far stronger.
It has a psychological effect.
It has an effect on the company.
It is innovative, and holds promise for the future.
That is how it has been presented.
Yet what age are we living in?
That now applies to the Commission as well.
The task is to integrate these specific models of employee participation into a specific network for the present day, in other words, to encourage employees to take an interest in obtaining shareholdings in companies.
What is the reality in Europe?
We have recessional and deflationary trends, characterised by the Commission's growing pressure to make savings.
As a result, pensions and social systems are being cut, and this does not make employees more willing to acquire shares in the corporate sector.
That is the problem.
In other words, if we want to make policies for the European Union, we should get down to brass tacks: we should create systems which are equipped with appropriate flanking measures so that everything can come together to form a creative whole.
That is actually what we want.
This cannot be the case as long there are quite different economic tendencies on the one side from our own, with our ideas, on the other.
Employee participation must not be just a theory.
Employee participation in the Lisbon sense means more than that!
