Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance naturally support the policy of ceasing to add antibiotics to feed.
This is an old demand by Parliament, and the ban might certainly already have been imposed years ago, but we wish to commend the process we are now completing.
I must also take this opportunity to show respect for the Commission for having complied with this request by Parliament.
We are part-way through the codecision procedure, and that gives me the opportunity to refer nonetheless to a number of reservations.
Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, in your first reports, you had proposed a tougher approach to the registration of manufactured substances and to the timing of such registration, and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development did of course fall in with this proposal.
In particular, you had initially recommended that coccidiostats be phased out by 2008.
This has now been postponed to 2012 and not even, as yet, with a view to banning them definitively but rather with a view possibly to categorising them as medicines.
That seems to me to be a very long wait.
Why can they not be transferred into the medicines category before that?
Not that doing so would necessarily justify a ban.
I have the impression that, in moving in that direction, you have been considerably influenced by the industry concerned.
In the throes of a codecision procedure, a large group like the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has the opportunity of using its large quantity of votes to prevent us from obtaining the 314 votes we need and, through preferential negotiations, has the considerable power to land Parliament with results that we cannot then alter.
In saying this, I would indicate that codecision does not necessarily always produce good results.
Instead, it must be taken seriously and handled responsibly, and - above all, in the large group - there should be no getting carried away into complying with the interests of the industry.
Nonetheless, we shall endorse this report, and I hope that you will reconsider whether it might not, however, be possible for your group also to support what has been decided by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on the subject of registering manufactured substances.
