Mr President, I should first like to thank the Commissioner very much for the White Paper that she has presented.
It is not a radical reform, but it will have far-reaching consequences for future transport policy.
I should also like to thank Mr Izquierdo Collado, a Spaniard who has worked on this White Paper with a thoroughness of which one would usually attribute only to a German, and who has invested a great deal of energy in his report.
As always with such compromises, however, there are of course a number of inconsistencies that I should like to point out. paragraph 9 states that there should be some degree of shift to rail, but that under no circumstances should this negatively affect the competitiveness of road transport.
It therefore needs to be stated that what we have at present is unfair competition, which needs to be redressed, precisely because certain costs associated with road transport - and in particular environmental costs - are not taken into account.
Neither is it a question, as it says in paragraph 10, of forcing modal shift.
In any case, the shift will only affect certain sectors.
Of course we need heavy goods vehicles too.
But the point is that, precisely when roads are under excessive pressure and environmental costs are not being taken into account, unutilised capacity on rail should be used better.
Already today I can say that even in the case of the Brenner Pass - which is so controversial - there is unutilised capacity that could be used, and that this would make a contribution to improving the environment.
Finally, let me address the issue of cross-financing.
I believe that it is right to refer in paragraph 75 to the fact that what the Commission is proposing is the right way forward.
This is not about an arbitrary subsidy either, but about compensating for the existing disadvantages and about strengthening a mode of transport that has unfortunately suffered in recent decades from the fact that the priority has been to consolidate the position of road transport.
This is therefore simply about redressing the balance and this should be stated here.
Once again, I hope that this report, if it is adopted now, will be of genuine help to the Commission in implementing the proposals in the White Paper.
