Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, it has been with much concern that I have followed this debate and the preparation of tomorrow's motions for a resolution.
The fact is that two trains are going to collide head-on here, all because we are arguing about who is slightly more, or slightly less, to blame in this matter.
I too have my own personal views on the subject, but they will not help us to make any progress.
We must not allow our capacity for action to be destroyed now by a dispute about who did what badly three or four weeks ago or six months ago, with this war as the result of it.
We should bear in mind the fact that essential elements are at issue here.
This is about such questions as how we deal with the victims, and how we secure the region's stability, as well as about Europe's capacity for action in the Middle East and about how we, within the Quartet framework, at last bring about sound solutions.
How can we, in this matter, put this failure on Europe's part to good use in order to move the Convention forward, in order to prevent Europe's weakness being the cause of the next such situation, and how do we acquire capacity for action by means of better mechanisms that enable us to unchain the political will that we share?
Thirdly, this is about how we handle trans-Atlantic relations in future, about in what ways we can put them on new and more stable foundations.
How do we gain acceptance for our knowledge that force is not the appropriate way to create a new world order?
In particular, how do we save a multilateral world founded upon compromise and upon mutual respect?
Mr Poettering, the chairman of my group, made reference to Richard Perle.
I do not consider it acceptable for the United States to oblige others to accept its unilateral approach.
The United States cannot decide, alone and on the basis of its own national interests, what is right in this world and what is not.
That approach, which Mr Perle advocates, for example in an article in today's 'Berliner Zeitung', is quite simply unacceptable, for it means that we Europeans have no part whatever in any decisions affecting our vital interests; it means that we are unable to defend our interests, and also prevents us from making any contribution to world peace.
