.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, honourable Members, I do not want now to repeat all the things I said in my speech earlier, but just to deal with a number of the issues that have been raised.
For a start, I believe that we are, in principle, in entire agreement where the issue of rural development is concerned, but we must, on the other hand, all abide by the boundaries set by the Financial Perspective.
As regards what Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf rightly described as a long drawn-out debate on additional measures in connection with a sort of 'Leader East', I do not know if I can now, so to speak, convert him, as he has said he lacks the faith, but I am quite serious in saying ?
... that we will rearrange the basic regulation in such a way as to do justice to your concern.
Taking up your suggestion that we should discuss the things that were said in Cancún about the Green Box, I really would greatly welcome a discussion of this sort, which we could perhaps extend by inviting various representatives of NGOs to join in.
I did in fact get the impression from Cancún that this is where what one might term the sustainability department and the development department in some of the NGOs sometimes put forward quite contrary points of view, and I believe that this is something we should really hammer out together.
I have already indicated that the Commission can make a proposal on fisheries policy only if the Member States are willing to give us the necessary figures.
Their needs are obviously not that great, or else they would have provided the figures.
I am not, therefore able to say at present how much of the Budget is to be allocated additionally to the scrapping policy; my only guide is what we have actually been told is needed.
We are meant to - and we will - draw a distinction between the development component and that element in which we pay for the acquisition of fisheries rights under an agreement, but no new subheadings are needed for this in the Budget; it can be quite sensibly organised within one Budget line, and that is what we are going to do.
You will very soon find your requests being complied with in the proposals that we are going to submit.
(Applause)
