Mr President, honourable Members, the travel and tourist industry has been hard hit by the military conflict in Iraq, whilst SARS has also been a cause of new insecurity.
The adverse effects on tourism in general should not, however, be overestimated.
We have every right to hope that tourism will recover at most of the European tourist destinations.
Tourism is one of the European Union's major branches of industry, with a direct contribution to the gross domestic product and to employment amounting to about 5%, and its indirect contribution to some 12%.
In its 13 November 2001 communication entitled 'Working together for the future of European tourism', the Commission proposed an operational framework and measures aimed at invigorating the European tourist industry, an area in which it is backing close collaboration between all participants in the public and private sectors.
The Commission's legislative and work programme for 2003 envisages a new communication on the further transposition of parts of the 2001 communication, with specific reference to the issue of the sustainability of European tourism.
This will be an initiative specifically aimed at coordinating action by all interested parties to revive the European tourist industry.
If the Member States and the tourist industry agree to the Commission initiating further coordinated action to help the European tourist industry recover from markedly adverse circumstances, the Commission would be willing to do so under Community competences defined in the Treaty.
Mention of Community competences leads me to refer to the Convention, which, to a large degree, works with a view to legal continuity.
In the present Treaty on the European Communities, tourism is listed under Article 3 (1) (u).
As regards reference to tourism as a complementary responsibility in the future constitution, we must wait and see what proposals the praesidium will put forward on the subject and how the Convention responds to them.
As far as its legislative programme for 2003 is concerned, the Commission has listed over 40 items of proposed legislation that can be expected to have some effect on tourism, 24 of them to a more or less marked degree.
These include proposals relating to the policy priorities for 2003, as well as other items of proposed legislation that will probably be put forward in 2003.
They cover a multiplicity of policy areas, mainly transport - with 40% of all proposals and half of the most important - followed by taxation issues with 5 proposals.
It is to be hoped that these initiatives by the Commission will receive this House's support.
