Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank Mr Liese very much for his outstanding work on this report.
I would also like to pay tribute, in particular, to his efforts to include social groups in the work on the report as well.
That is very commendable, for the real task here is genuinely to bring together all the social groups - patients' organisations, but also scientists and others - round the table, and he has been at pains to draw the different positions together.
For us Greens too, it is very important - indeed, I would go as far as to say that it is the priority - to send out a very clear signal to the Member States that embryos may not be used for research purposes.
We do not want to create any incentive for embryos to be produced solely for research purposes.
We also do not want women to be degraded into egg cell or embryo donors.
This is something we must reject, loud and clear.
We must also make it clear that no tissue or cells from embryos in general may be used.
On the issue of embryonic stem cells, too, my position is quite clear: what we are saying is that adult stem cells are just as, if not more suitable.
We cannot awaken any false hopes here.
I would like to mention the damaging reports on gene therapy, which have recently been circulating, in this context.
In this area, far too many false hopes have been awakened for many years, instead of genuinely looking at alternatives.
Science and research without a conscience would be humanity's ruin.
For this reason, the task must be to send out very clear signals here.
It is also important to emphasise in the report, yet again, that the cloning of humans or embryos is not permitted.
In my view, it cannot be stressed often enough, here in Parliament and indeed elsewhere, that we need a very clear limit.
A great deal has already been said about donations without remuneration, and it is clear, as has already been discussed, that the human body is not a commodity.
For this reason, Commissioner, I would urge you once again to respond positively to the demand which we Greens have tabled.
We are calling on the Commission to put forward a legislative proposal before July 2003, for the situation on organ donations in particular is making it increasingly clear that the human body or parts thereof are indeed becoming commodities.
In my view, we need very clear European legislation in this area.
