Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is approaching a very great event.
The most ambitious enlargement in its history is within our grasp.
This brings to its conclusion a work process lasting many years, and, in Copenhagen, the candidate countries and the Member States were able to come to a good result even on financial issues, which are always tricky.
The financial perspective now has to be adapted to enlargement, and the procedure for this was decided on, as long ago as 1999, in the Interinstitutional Agreement, which states in very clear terms that this decision is to be taken jointly by the Council and Parliament on a proposal from the Commission.
For Parliament now to say that a deal is a deal is of course to the point.
The Commission very much regrets the present conflict between the institutions, and I do not want to conceal the fact that the Commission advised the Council to take a different course.
The Commission had advised the Council to make explicit reference to the Interinstitutional Agreement, and particularly to Article 25.
In the present situation, the time for finding negotiated solutions is running out.
The last few days have seen all the parties engaging in dialogue in great depth in order to resolve the issues.
It has to be borne in mind that the draft Treaties have now been finalised by the Member States, and also by the candidate countries.
The search for a solution to the present difficulty has led the Commission to concentrate on the second way referred to in Mr Wynn's and Mr Brok's joint resolution.
That Parliament should highlight two alternatives is seen by the Commission as a clear expression of Parliament's constructive attitude.
The Commission proposal for adapting the financial perspective to enlargement was submitted as long ago as the beginning of this year.
It is made on the basis of Article 25 of the Interinstitutional Agreement.
Should both parts of the budgetary authority so desire it, the Commission is now prepared to submit forthwith a proposal for the revision of the financial perspective.
This would be done on the basis of Part C of the Interinstitutional Agreement, and the proposal could contain an increase in the upper limit for Heading 3, that is, of the budget for internal policies.
This would indeed be in the spirit of enlargement, as it would create additional financial facilities for helping the enlarged Union to grow closer together.
Whilst I believe that we are on the right track, I have to tell you, honourable Members, that tomorrow's Budget trialogue - which we should take seriously - is doomed to be a success.
The procedures and deadlines leave us, in practical terms, no other choice.
We should make every effort to resolve this issue before the treaties are signed and before Parliament's resolution, so that, in time for 9 April, the financial perspective can be adapted to enlargement.
I am convinced that all the parties are aware of their great responsibility and will make it possible for us to do what history requires of us.
