– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, reference has been made to waves, and these are still lashing my part of northern Germany, rising indeed to a great height, and it is difficult to speak in just about 120 seconds about an issue that will affect the structure of our European ports and coasts as a whole.
I am fundamentally convinced of the advantages of creating a clear, open and transparent common legal framework.
I am convinced that competition between ports demands the continuation of a purpose-built framework and of certain rules, not least for the sake of the workers and of our environment.
This, then, is the great objective towards which we are progressing together.
Members of this House, led by the rapporteur, Mr Jarzembowski, have got seriously stuck in to the readings and have framed a large number of amendments to make the objective a clearer and fairer one.
A conciliation procedure is not a walkover, and I know from experience that you never come from one with a full bag of goodies.
Nonetheless, we have to rigorously examine what has come out of conciliation, and each of us must carefully consider whether we can be satisfied with it and whether we can defend it to the people back home.
As I see it, the Council has moved far too little.
It is the Council that must take responsibility, and I have to say that I am particularly thinking of the German Government when I say that.
On Thursday, then, will be the hour of decision.
Every one of us will have to face questions: What is now the real situation as regards balance?
What about compensation payments and adjustments?
Let me remind you of Article 12.
I have to concede that, time and time again, I find myself admiring Mr Jarzembowski’s negotiating skills, but, even so, in this instance, I cannot forget the interests of many small ports, coming as I do from Cuxhaven, which is one of them.
Some global players may be satisfied, but I am not.
I do not want to leave it to the nation states to sort out the compensation payments in a way that is as yet unclear, particularly as nothing has been laid down.
That may be just a point of criticism, but it is a decisive one.
I admit that I am still struggling with the directive, and with myself, but will the people at home understand that?
