Mr President, I would like to focus on the issue of culture, and I welcome the Commission’s endeavours in the field of education, youth and culture, also for 2003.
For 2004, you list a work programme with seven proposals of interest to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, the Media and Sport.
I must start by voicing criticism of the fact that these work and action programmes are always submitted relatively late in the day.
As a result, we are currently negotiating the programmes for youth, culture, organisations and vocational training.
We are under enormous time pressure and have to find solutions under these conditions.
Otherwise, the programmes for next year will fail and will not be implemented.
No one wants to be exposed to this criticism and, above all, this responsibility.
The priorities of the Commission’s action programme for 2004 do not necessarily lie in the area of education, youth and culture.
For specific reasons, it has other priorities, such as enlargement, parliamentary elections, economic security etc.
Nonetheless, I would ask the Commission not to neglect education, youth and culture.
In the planning timetable for this year, the objectives set were far higher than actually achieved.
I am thinking, for example, of legislative proposals which should have been adopted in September or October, such as the Europass Training, European CV, etc. but which were postponed, may be adopted at the end of this year, and in some cases will be implemented in 2004.
The post-2006 training programmes are a case in point, which are a key aspect of cultural policy.
I therefore call on the Commission to adopt the pledged proposals to ensure that they can at least pass through their first reading in Parliament during this electoral term.
I wish to draw particular attention to the legislative proposals in the audiovisual sector, which are supposed to be submitted in December.
There is still no text submitted for the long-announced revision of the Television without Frontiers Directive.
What we have instead is an apparently never-ending consultation process by the Commission.
The accession of ten new Member States, stability and sustainable growth are undoubtedly important, but this does not mean that culture and education should be overlooked.
Education must be a priority for enlargement.
Topics should be interlinked.
The focus should not always be on economic and political linkage.
Culture and education must be integrated more fully, education as the basis for progress and development in the European Union, and culture as a prerequisite for community relations, dialogue and respect for cultural diversity.
