.
Mr President, honourable Members, ladies and gentlemen, I have closely followed this debate, in which a range of issues have been raised and ideas have been put forward.
I will pass them all on to the Commissioner responsible so that they may be carefully examined.
I mentioned most of the points that have been made in my opening remarks, and I do not therefore wish to repeat them.
There seems to be general consensus as to how to deal with the crises resulting from the need to adapt and from industrial change and restructuring.
Let me reiterate one thing, and do so clearly.
Effective, timely and comprehensive information for, and consultation with, workers’ representatives constitutes a key element in our response to situations such as these.
Another important element in this context will be following up the ongoing consultation with the social partners on the restructuring of enterprises.
I am sure that you all understand how necessary it is to identify good practice for this, at European level, and, where necessary, to develop it further.
Further to Mrs Van Lancker’s and Mr Kuckelkorn’s discussion, I would like to point out that the Commission has not, to date, received any complaint from the responsible workers’ representatives in relation to this matter.
Moreover, if the directive in question has indeed been breached, then that is a case for the Belgian courts; it is they who must then consider the issue.
As I have already announced, though, we will in any case be launching a revision of the directive.
Nor must we overlook the fact that, while changes in industry have economic effects and consequences for employment and social cohesion, they can also offer opportunities, especially when they are anticipated, prepared for and managed.
In relation to this, Mrs Weiler, you mentioned the need to make a financial request or to examine the possibility of applying structural funds for this purpose – my experts here tell me that no such application has as yet been made to the Commission.
Dialogue, transparency, genuine worker participation, foresight, risk avoidance and the encouragement of employability – such are the key elements in a European response to all these occurrences.
Let us all work at them and do our utmost to create the instruments – whether legal acts or in some other form – to further develop these concepts.
