– Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, you, Mr President of the Commission, have proposed increased stability and security as a priority for your programme, and that is only to be welcomed.
Among other things in relation to this, you propose taking steps towards the establishment of joint border control.
For that you have our entire support.
In so doing, you will ultimately be acceding to our demands, for we have always wanted the same high standards to apply on all our external borders after enlargement, and precautions need to be taken for that to be the case.
Last week, at a press conference, you again suggested establishing, at the very outset, an agency to take over the work of control and coordination.
This would be the sixteenth agency, and what we have learned so far about agencies can be summed up by saying that we have forgotten the names of many of them, we have forgotten what they do, and that we are most aware of them at the time of the Budget, when we notice – generally after they have been in existence for only a few years – that the outgoings are mushrooming.
All that comes into my mind is that we should propose setting up an agency to examine the other agencies’ efficiency and consider whether we need any more of them.
What we would like is for the means of control and coordination to be set up within the Commission or in close association with it, for the sake of efficient external borders control.
We need control, we need coordination, we need the efficient use of resources, but under no circumstances do we have any need of an agency.
My second point is that you say that there must be tough action taken against illegal immigrants and something done to integrate those who are here legally.
In that you have our full support, but please take action once and for all; see to it that return agreements are in place, not just with Macao or Hong Kong, but with the states from which migrants actually come.
There is one thing you must not do, and that is, to offer the abolition of visas as a ; instead, provide something that will be more help, namely trade facilities and economic aid, so that emigration ceases to be necessary.
