Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is extremely positive and gratifying that the Commission – as my fellow Members have already recognised in today’s debate – contributed to the World Summit on the Information Society and that it will continue to make a major contribution on this issue.
This is especially gratifying given that in other areas – let me cite some examples from my sphere of interest: the Alpine Convention – has mystifyingly absolved itself of much of its responsibility and has thus contributed to the stasis and paralysis of this initiative.
Hopefully, the Commission will reconsider its position here.
On the issue of the information society, I believe that the right to network access should not only be understood as facilitating access.
It should also mean promoting access, especially in outlying regions, in regions with a geographical disadvantage, that is, also in mountainous regions.
The population here, which is at a disadvantage from the outset – in terms of the type of settlement, the distribution of settlements, and their remote location – should also have the opportunity to gain network access under preferential conditions.
That means that a differentiated approach must be taken to the conurbations, on the one hand, and the sparsely populated regions, on the other.
I would like to draw your attention to an initiative adopted by the Free State of Bavaria some years ago.
This was a very interesting campaign and initiative which aimed to open up opportunities across the board.
Unfortunately, these opportunities were considered to violate competition rules.
However, I think that a rather more lenient approach should be adopted to the issue of competition if there are objective criteria necessitating other solutions.
I think that the information society must undoubtedly take greater account of various other issues, such as data protection, privacy and certainly the protection of intellectual property as well.
These are aspects that have not been considered to an adequate extent in the past due to the novel character of the medium.
I hope that this ground can be made up in practice as well.
