– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council has twice had to preside over an Ecofin Council, which twice in the space of four weeks committed a serious foul against the European Community project; the first instance was your letter to Mr Berlusconi in the aftermath of an Ecofin Council meeting, in which you heaped criticism upon the Convention’s proposals to the Intergovernmental Conference, and the second came last week.
That cannot be allowed to go uncontradicted, and we cannot simply move on to the next item of business.
Whether one looks at it from the point of view of democratic politics, of economic policy, monetary policy, in legal terms or from the European angle, the way you have gone about things is harmful, unacceptable and deserving of condemnation.
Today, Commissioner Solbes told us that the Council has not kept to the spirit of the Treaty.
On Monday, Mr Trichet, the President of the ECB, told the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs that the European Central Bank attaches great importance to the Stability and Growth Pact remaining unchanged whatever happens, for it has proved its worth in terms of economic and monetary policy.
He called on the Council, the Commission, Parliament and the Member States to take their own responsibilities seriously.
It is in particular Germany and France whom I urge to refrain from blaming the EU in general, and the Stability Pact in particular, for their domestic difficulties.
Apportioning blame makes no proper contribution to achieving jointly-agreed objectives.
The European Union is made up of all of us.
Germany and France overstepped the mark in the way they interpreted the rules, and what was a Community matter they made merely intergovernmental.
By a political decision, they set the rules aside, but the Community is not an alternative to politics.
The finance ministers have impaired its credibility, shattered confidence and given rise to other problems.
That is not acceptable.
