– Mr President, Mrs Hermange’s report is in fact a very important one.
Recognition, enforcement and cooperation in respect of parental responsibility and measures for the protection of children are of such great value that the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote unreservedly in favour of all of the amendments and Mrs Hermange’s report.
We will do this because we know how important the protection of children is.
As you know, I am a member of a Franco-German mediation group, and know what difficulties and sad cases we have to deal with in it.
It is the children themselves who suffer.
We will vote in favour, although as a Member of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and as a rapporteur, or a designated rapporteur for this Committee – we could not draw up another report because there was not enough time to do so – I would like to make a few remarks.
In fact, I would like to mention three questions, which I forwarded to the Commission through Mr Gargani, the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, and also a question that Mrs Hermange asked, which referred to the importance of this agreement in connection with Community law.
We have Brussels II, we have drawn up legislation for the European Union, and our input into this legislation is, in my view, highly creditable.
Yet, at the same time, the Commission allowed this agreement to be discussed and certain things to be deliberated on without informing Parliament or giving it the chance to be involved.
That poses an important institutional question as to what the connection is between the agreement and the European legislative procedure, and what Parliament’s rights are on this matter.
The upshot is that we agree with this exception, because we see this agreement as exceptionally important and we do not want children to be punished in any way just because it there a potential interinstitutional conflict.
We will, however, raise this question again in the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market, since it cannot be acceptable for Parliament’s rights to be annulled due to parallel legislation at European and International level.
That would not be in the least bit sensible.
