Mr President, my fellow Members have already pointed out, and it has become apparent indirectly, how difficult the negotiations were in Geneva.
The World Summit on the Information Society demonstrated yet again that international negotiations, regardless of the framework in which they take place – whether it be the WTO or the UN – have become extremely complex.
MrRübig’s appeal is quite right: we need more parliamentary involvement.
That will not necessarily simplify the process, but it will at least demonstrate more clearly and tangibly the desire of citizens to be represented properly through a legitimate voice.
In Geneva, it became apparent how such complex negotiations – in this instance, on the issue of how a global information society should be developed – can be shaped by the various actors.
As a rule, these continue to be the governments, of course, and it is governments which draft the laws and have to negotiate at international level.
In this instance, however, a great many companies and what has come to be known as ‘civil society’ were also involved.
We must not forget that the Summit in Geneva nearly collapsed.
It was extremely difficult to bring the negotiations to a conclusion at all.
Anyone who reads the text and the compromise – and I would recommend it to everyone – can see how difficult it was to produce this compromise.
I suspect that it will only be in Tunis that we recognise that we have a document before us that we can take back home and defend with some measure of credibility.
Let me mention the most important issues that are at stake.
Firstly, there is the issue of financing.
Mr Cappato has mentioned that in the EU, we must proceed very cautiously when it comes to participating financially.
We must consider which governments we are indirectly supporting, as they will have their own ideas on what constitutes an information society.
Secondly, there is the issue of human rights.
Here, the key issue is again freedom of information or constraints on access to the Internet.
Naturally, there are many other issues as well.
Cyber-security is one aspect that the European Union in particular has put on the agenda, and one where I hope we will be able to make a contribution through our own agency which we are currently setting up.
Then there is the issue of Internet Governance, which is still unresolved.
That is a sorry story even here in Europe.
We have not even managed to launch our EU top level domain name successfully in the European arena.
Finally, there are the issues of intellectual property rights and how open source can be developed.
I felt it was important simply to mention these points.
I hope that next year, we can address this topic again, and that this House will adopt a resolution on the matter before Tunis.
