Mr Queiró, I do not think that it would be sensible for the Commission to reopen the issues associated with Hungarian Status Law.
For a long time, I have endeavoured, with the utmost discretion, to help all countries concerned avoid any conflicts that might result from it.
In the meantime we have reached the point where there is agreement between Romania and Hungary and the discussion process between the Slovak Republic and Hungary has not yet been concluded.
I urgently advise against us interfering there, as this is more of an opportunity for the two states to talk and act in a neighbourly fashion.
If our help is required, then it is available.
At the moment, however, the two countries are talking to each other and I think that they will reach an outcome sooner or later.
Even if they do not, European Community law will apply in this matter from 1 May 2004, and this will, in any case, rule out any differences in treatment on the grounds of nationality.
The other question is a very complicated issue in the light of the domestic disputes in Hungary.
I do not think that we are dealing with a systematic problem here, that is, with a problem that could be said to show that Hungary has not met the conditions for accession.
Rather, we are dealing with massive, extremely weighty and very emotional domestic disputes.
I do not think that it is for me to get involved in such a conflict and give my opinion on it.
Just as little as I would get involved in domestic disputes in current Member States, we should now understand that our new Member States have left behind the phase where, as it were, they were under some kind of surveillance.
I do not feel in any way responsible any more for domestic events in these countries.
To observe and judge them is now a matter for Parliament, a matter for the Council, but it is certainly not a matter for the executive power to judge what a freely elected government and a freely elected parliament do.
I urge you to understand that I do not want the Commission to start getting involved in a future Member State’s internal politics.
