– Mrs Zorba, let me start by saying that no state in the world other than Turkey recognises the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, and I have no plans to change the situation.
The elections held last Sunday therefore have to be seen as a political move which will have repercussions that could certainly be significant for us.
The Commission’s initial response is that, three days after the elections, there is still potential for achieving a fair, lasting and viable solution to the conflict in Cyprus by 1 May 2004.
The Commission continues to urge all parties to use the Annan Plan as a basis for seeking a comprehensive solution to the Cyprus problem.
As to how this relates to Turkey’s application for membership, the Commission made it clear in the strategy paper published in early November that it does see a political correlation.
The Commission also noted that failure to find a solution could seriously impede Turkey’s efforts to join the EU.
Last weekend the European Council responded positively to the Commission’s suggestion that the two be linked politically.
However, unlike the Commission, the Council did not choose the form of a warning, but rather a reward, indicating that a solution to the Cyprus question would appreciably assist Turkey’s efforts to join the European Union.
Of course, the underlying message still remains the same and shows the Turkish Government that not only the Commission but also all 15 Member States together with the 10 incoming States consider the two subjects politically related, without wishing to create a new condition or a new requirement.
Looking ahead to the next steps, the Commission is willing to contribute anything that will help reach a settlement rapidly and to prepare the measures needed for the speedy adoption of Community law in the northern part of the island.
Let me remind you that, in the event of a solution being found, the Commission has offered to organise an international donor conference in order to find international funds to help correct the economic and social imbalances in the northern part of the island.
I also want to emphasise that the European Union is willing to accommodate the terms of a solution in Community law and the Union has already earmarked EUR 206 million in aid for northern Cyprus to be made available when a settlement has been agreed.
To close, let me say that I fervently hope that the Turkish Government in Ankara will understand that it is in their own interest and to their advantage to support the current move to resume the discussions on Cyprus and to use the window of opportunity while it is still open.
That window of opportunity is limited, but it is still available.
However one looks at it, it would be better if Cyprus’ accession on 1 May were agreed on the basis of a political solution to the conflict.
