– Mr President, Commissioner Reding, we have been in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education, Media and Sport until now, where we voted on three very complicated reports.
That is why I arrived so out of breath, but we did very well.
I would like to thank Mrs de Sarnez for carrying out her work with such determination and so much drive.
In doing so she achieved what we wanted to achieve; we will be able to start the Erasmus Mundus programme at the beginning of 2004.
This report emphasises something that is very dear to Parliament, that is, we are creating a European learning area, an expression we were not allowed to use in relation to Socrates II.
Today, I think everyone is talking in such terms and that, I believe, is a good thing.
We are bringing Europe back onto the international stage.
Europe will become more competitive and more attractive to young people from abroad.
As against the EUR 180 million that the Commission wanted, we have set a figure of EUR 230 million.
Achieving this increase took a great deal of effort, but I believe that it is also a reflection of the ambitions we have for this programme.
To be genuinely appealing such a programme requires financing.
We put further emphasis on language learning and that is a very important point because the students who come here study in three different countries and we expect them to try to learn at least two of the languages of these countries.
I see Erasmus Mundus as a marvellous way of continuing Socrates-Erasmus, and I believe that we will make this programme a great success in 2004, the very year that the European elections are taking place.
I hope that in so doing and in showing what we are capable of, we will make this a real attraction in the European Union and beyond.
These students, coming from outside the EU, will be able to study in three places in Europe; they will assimilate the cultural diversity of the European Union, they will learn the languages and they will carry Europe’s message abroad.
I am glad that we have come so far together on this road.
