– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you can hardly be surprised that I am not rising to ask you about what has been achieved as regards the constitution.
Many Members have done that already.
I want to refer back to what I said on 2 July, when, in this House, I asked you, as President of the European Council, ‘What do you intend to do to speed up the introduction of the European arrest warrant?’
On that occasion, demonstrating a distinct lack of charm, you declined to answer me.
Then, in September, I asked again what progress had rewarded your efforts, and I can tell the House that I have received an answer.
The answer to the question as to what you intend doing to speed up the introduction of the European arrest warrant is ‘nothing’.
On 1 January next year, there will be no European arrest warrant.
The area of security, freedom and justice is at the heart of European legal policy, a core policy of the European Union – as, indeed, you yourself said in your first statement to this House.
I take the view that it would have been one of your tasks as President-in-Office of the Council to make this landmark a reality, for the fact is that the failure to introduce the European arrest warrant means that, from 1 January 2004 onwards, the position as regards criminal prosecutions in Europe will be worse than on 31 December 2003.
The absence of the European arrest warrant will make it more difficult to prosecute criminals from 1 January 2004 onwards.
Precisely whom this state of affairs is meant to benefit, Mr President-in-Office, I have no idea, but I know full well who is put at a disadvantage by it, namely the citizens of Europe.
If we want to establish this area of security, freedom and justice, if we want to make Europe more secure, if we want to guarantee more efficient prosecution across frontiers, if we want to combat organised crime more effectively, then this landmark in the area of security, freedom and justice is what we need.
I very much regret that.
Back in September, I believed you were on the right track.
Today, I have to say, with regret, that, on this issue – and let me repeat myself, we are talking here about the accelerated introduction of the arrest warrant, which was necessary in July – you have, lamentably, not only failed to do your homework, but have, in my opinion, proved yourself an outright failure.
