Mr President, I have a question for the Commissioner.
Commissioner, I really do not want to provoke you, but your answer does give me real cause for concern.
Amendment 18 states that, ‘In addition, research on embryo or foetal stem cells deriving from spontaneous or therapeutic abortion may be funded.’
Rumours have it that the Commission is already doing something of the kind.
You see, abortion is legal – up to the third month in Austria.
By then, the child’s heart is already beating.
If the child is handicapped, whether mentally or physically, it can be aborted up to the ninth month.
Will there be some point at which we say that we want to save life, even if the child had to die anyway?
Will we also do that with a three-month old child whose heart is beating, or with a nine-month-old child whose death is inevitable?
Abortion is carried out quite legally.
You know, the reason why I find these arguments so horrifying is that I heard them a number of years ago when a former Nazi doctor was on trial in Vienna.
During the Nazi era, he carried out experiments on children with serious mental handicaps.
The argument by which he justified his actions was that these children would have to die anyway, and that he wanted to help other people.
Let me say something to Mr Cappato.
My dear Mr Cappato, you are such a charming chap!
Even at the moment that your mother’s ovum came together with your father’s sperm, even when you were a tiny embryo, you were just as charming, just as handsome as you are now, your voice was as easy on the ear as it is today.
You were already unique.
Never before had you had the chance to come into the world, and never again will there be another Marco Cappato.
Even as an embryo, you were already a personality.
And Mrs Matikainen-Kallström, you have a little baby!
This baby was an embryo, and it was your baby.
Your child’s laughter, the colour of its skin and eyes, all were already present in the embryo.
I do not believe that anyone would say they were prepared to sacrifice their own child, even only as an embryo, for the sake of saving someone else.
