Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Intergovernmental Conference, having only just been opened, paints a picture of a bundle of banknotes being thrown into the crowd in a pedestrian zone.
Everyone is jostling to get hold of a note; the Convention draft is being dealt with as if a piece of game were being hunted to death so that everyone can pull out a piece for themselves.
At this point I wonder who is actually the source of Europe’s constitution.
The citizens?
Their directly elected representatives – the parliaments – or even the cabinet offices and national governments?
One day we will have to answer this question before history and the people of Europe.
The Intergovernmental Conference gives its own answer, that they are the source of Europe’s constitution.
In Thessaloniki they claimed that they would not open Pandora’s box.
Pandora’s box is open and you can see how the old diseases of Europe are spreading, national egoism and aspirations of unilateralism in the individual institutions.
From where else might they come, these diseases and this evil that we are seeing?
In its first meeting, the Legislative Council thus removed the separation of powers element and the public nature of legislation, without debate.
The Finance Ministers agree: fewer rights for Parliament, less publicity, fewer rights for the Commission.
They are the sole legislators.
They – they alone – have budget sovereignty behind closed doors.
Qualified majority voting – a considerable step in the draft Constitution – is being challenged in many areas.
Dual majority in the Council, one of the Convention’s best principles: a law is passed with the majority of the States and the majority of the citizens.
That is understandable, that is legitimate.
It is attacked for not fitting in with their power game.
Another step forward: Euratom.
A great opening towards reform of this obsolete treaty will be blocked.
The European Central Bank, which is bound by the Convention on European values and objectives, will be exempt from these values because of solidarity.
I could go on.
The attacks are fierce.
The principle is: more power to governments, less democracy, fewer rights for citizens, and less knowledge for the public.
We need to respond to this, and if the parliaments do not do so, then Europe’s Constitution will be a bad one.
