– Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say something about the general lines on the agencies, which I have agreed with the general rapporteur in my capacity as permanent rapporteur on the agencies’ budget.
Apart from one small change, we have, in dealing with this year’s agencies budget, followed the Commission proposal and have, as a rule, reinstated the Commission’s preliminary draft budget in order to take into account the agencies’ increased requirements in consequence of enlargement.
It should be noted in this regard that some agencies have done very well out of this, whilst the reinstatement of the preliminary draft budget has meant that others have not received the funding they need in order to successfully complete the tasks allocated to them.
We must nonetheless hold fast to the principle that it is the budget that determines activities and not the other way round.
It is not acceptable for the administrative boards or managers of agencies to exceed their budgets without obtaining approval for this from the Commission or the budgetary authority.
As regards the agencies’ establishment plan and Mr Mulder’s proposal concerning it, I would like to point out that Parliament, being part of the budgetary authority, must get better at monitoring the agencies’ personnel policies, to which certain principles must apply.
Firstly, and as a rule, the agency must, when recruiting staff, use the procedures generally customary in the EU.
Secondly, when recruiting specialised staff, who can only be allocated to higher grades, approval must be sought from the budgetary authority in each individual case.
Thirdly, agencies must not grant established official status without the budgetary authority’s permission.
The object of this is to enable us to eventually get some sort of grip on the expansion of personnel and the inflation of costs.
As the Member States have already announced their intention to set up even more agencies, we can see even today that this will go beyond the scope of category 3.
I would ask the Commissioner to join with her fellow-Commissioners in giving some thought to whether it might not make sense to establish a category specifically for the agencies, enabling control of them to be improved and made transparent, and also guaranteeing Parliament’s right of co-determination.
