Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, I would again like to straighten out something that has been said here.
When I look at the Austrian Member who spoke of a basic right to health that we are all trampling under foot, yes, ladies and gentlemen, then I would like to call for an immediate stop to night journeys by freight trains, because people’s health is affected when railway trains travel through cities and villages at night making a tremendous amount of noise.
Or I would call on the Austrians to close all their skiing areas, because I can assure you I can find enough experts to show you that what you are doing in tourism in skiing areas is bad for human health and the environment.
You must be careful not to exaggerate with what you say.
We are always looking at balanced legal situations where there is one legal asset and another legal asset and we have to find a balance between them.
I believe that this compromise, which we have reached after long discussions, is a balanced solution.
Because the compromise bans the transit of the dirtiest lorries; if the compromise is not adopted, then not only Greek lorries, which funnily enough you want to allow and which are the dirtiest on the road, but all dirty lorries will be able to drive through Austria.
That is just an example to say, firstly, that your own position is not as glorious as it seems and, secondly, that this compromise does have advantages.
My final comment is that one must always be careful what high horse one gets up on.
Remember that in 1994 the Heads of State or Government called for the construction of the Brenner base tunnel as one of the 14 priority projects.
Up until a year ago, your own Austrian planning envisaged that the Brenner base tunnel should be completed in 2021.
And in response to pressure from this Parliament and others, Austria has now decided to bring forward the construction of the Brenner base tunnel to 2012.
People who claim justice is on their side should be careful and consider whether they are really the saints they think they are.
