– Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by warmly thanking our rapporteur, Mr Clegg, for making the climate in the committee conducive to the report’s unanimous adoption.
Tomorrow we will see that this report will not meet with resistance; quite on the contrary, it will be adopted with a great degree of consensus.
We are particularly advocating a competitive and open market.
Why do we do this?
Quite simply because we, in Europe, want to become more competitive.
When competition is on a global scale, telecommunications are urgently needed as a key to the future, and our telecommunications need to be highly competitive.
It is therefore of the utmost importance that this be implemented as quickly as possible, not only in the candidate countries, but also in the Member States.
We do not want distinctions to be drawn; we want the regulatory authorities to make public the progress achieved in the various countries, so that benchmarks and best practice may show us how to advance more rapidly where broadband is concerned.
We know that there are, at present, a number of difficulties associated with the introduction of UMTS, because the auctioning of frequencies had an inflationary effect.
I therefore think it makes a lot of sense for certain Member States to decide on tax incentives in order to get these new technologies up and running as soon as possible.
Reference has already been made to the overlap of work between regulatory authorities.
It is indeed necessary to bring the national and European levels together, even though, of course, the main work should be done in the Member States, with the European level intervening only when absolutely necessary.
It is particularly important that these institutions should be independent, and I believe that, in the future too, we should take care to ensure the functioning especially of the technical interfaces in order to guarantee the systems’ interoperability.
It might therefore make sense for the regulatory bodies to give some thought to the question of in which areas we need Europe-wide standardisation and in which mutual recognition, for it is, in the final analysis, targeted technical standardisation that can guarantee competition, it being of the utmost importance in terms of competition that interfaces should work and that the different systems should be capable of being used alongside each other.
We are of course all aware that businesses and entrepreneurs are tempted to create monopolies and keep technological innovations to themselves, but we must nevertheless guarantee the existence of a functioning market with technically well-executed interfaces.
