– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having removed the structural defect in the Commission proposal, by which I mean the requirement that systems be interoperable before they are abolished, the report points in a direction with which we can all agree, and for that thanks are due to the rapporteur.
Our essential need is for a toll system that is compatible right across Europe and built to a standard that will last into the future.
Europe has, since the 1990s, seen the introduction of a multitude of different toll systems, all stitched together in a patchwork, and there would be many more patches were it not for this directive.
The directive is intended to make it possible, in future, to get right across Europe with one technological item and one contract, and what that means is that the systems will have to be compatible by 2007.
Looking further ahead, it recommends the introduction of a satellite-based toll system and, at the same time, calls on the Commission to submit, by 2009, a strategy for the conversion of the services.
That was what our group had demanded, and I am glad that we have the rapporteur’s backing in this.
Why are we recommending a satellite-based toll system?
We do so because it has the potential to add value to our transport policy.
If I might use a rather laboured analogy, I do not buy a typewriter and then a computer if I am going to be putting my documents on the Internet.
A satellite-based toll system also promises more for the future, firstly, because it can – provided that the political will is present – provide comprehensive and cross-border coverage of vehicles, and, secondly, because – as my colleague Mr Swoboda said – it provides a basis on which future traffic flows can be directed and on which different modes of transport can be logistically interlinked.
Thirdly, it will be possible to use it in combination with mobile communications technology as a means towards introducing other services, such as, for example, rapid help in the event of accidents, local hazard warnings and the tracking of dangerous goods, to name but a few.
Perhaps the Commission should have put greater emphasis on these technical considerations.
I would be happy if we could complete this directive within the life of this Parliament; after first reading would be best of all.
