– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I have to say again that I do not agree with the Commissioner, and that this report is indeed very much about the Eurovignette, among other things.
The fact is that the introduction of a Eurovignette is dependent on the interoperability of toll systems, which means that the technology must be available, and work, before we can start charging for the Eurovignette, and we all know how urgently we need the money.
We know that there is a considerable shortfall of funds in the railway sector.
We saw, indeed, in our most recent debates on the necessary size of the European Union’s budgets, that there is in this sector a need for both revenue and for costs to be apportioned realistically, in other words, that railways, which have to pay their way, must, as regards costs, be put on an equal footing with roads, and that HGVs and other freight traffic must also pay to use roads.
So we unreservedly back Mrs Sommer as regards the guidelines she has laid down and endorse her statement that we need a solution that is not dependent on technology.
The aim is that the technology that is used should be capable of being used anywhere, and soon.
That is what we are aiming for, and it is a very good thing that Parliament is sticking to this line.
Thank you, Mrs Sommer: we need a practicable solution, and we are right behind you.
The introduction of the actual instrument that we need – the Eurovignette, an instrument of policy that this admittedly highly technical report is seeking to bring about – is absolutely dependent on a practicable solution being found.
Speaking, then, as a representative of a government that has shown how not to do it, I can say that the Greens – and I am absolutely of one mind with the German Greens on this – see practicability as the decisive factor in a solution.
Let me warn you, Commissioner, against going all-out for big technology that does not always work, and neglecting the other practical aspects.
I believe that Mrs Sommer’s report imposes the right conditions and shows it has to be done.
