– Mr President, Commissioner, I agree with the rapporteur that it is not the legislator’s task to impose on the market a particular technology to the exclusion of all others, but, at the end of the day, our interest is in being able, one day, to use the best of the toll charging systems on offer in Europe.
Microwave technology is in competition with satellite positioning and mobile communications, and important amendments now indicate its advantages in comparison with other systems.
To be sure, there are parallel systems over stretches of road, and perhaps not only for a transitional period, but the simple fact is that progressive conversion to satellite positioning and mobile communications technology offers a more realistic prospect of achieving interoperability and hence guaranteeing the absence of problems with road traffic by means of a working system of toll collection and without excessively expensive investments in infrastructure.
We have already heard how, in the sphere of satellite positioning the European satellite navigation system Galileo, which is currently under construction, will, from 2008 onwards, provide information of superior quality to that provided by the present-day GPS and will be ideally suited to telematics services in road traffic.
This is about using the opportunities opened up to us by Galileo in the area of toll charging.
Not in any way, though, is this about using toll-collecting technology as a means of justifying the extension of Galileo.
Let us not make the mistake of taking the disaster that befell the introduction of German lorry tolls as a reason not to give toll charging by satellite a chance.
That would be to throw the baby out with the bathwater.
It does not follow that there has to be repetition of the financial failures, bad luck and accidents that attended the introduction of the German HGV tolls, so let us keep our cool.
As I have said, I do not favour the mandatory introduction of satellite-based toll charging systems, but I do have confidence that, at the end of the day, the best system will prevail on the market, for that is what is demanded by the interests of the matter in hand.
