– Thank you, Mr President; Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done and also the willingness to engage in dialogue that she has constantly demonstrated while dealing with a portfolio that certainly was not an easy one.
It is of course tempting to talk about tolls as if they were quite self-explanatory, for there are so many aspects to them.
The regulation they provide can benefit the environment; they can promote safety; they also produce income, and one can of course have exciting discussions about what is to be done with it.
I believe, though, that we would be ill-advised to confuse the two issues, as we will have the opportunity to discuss the first of them later on, so let us concentrate on the technology.
Past experience has taught us that discussing this is extremely useful.
We have ourselves seen the chaos that can result if each country insists on using its own recipe for technology, and Toll Collect in Germany was a good example of that.
I do not believe that monopolies provide the answer in this area; we should simply aim to have good technology, and I believe that the Commission proposal and what the rapporteur has suggested are going the right way about achieving this.
The ‘one contract per user’ principle is, I believe, desirable and will remain so.
Unlike Mrs Honeyball and Mr Watts, I do not live in London, but at a distance of seven kilometres from two countries, and I can tell you that it would be a nightmare for HGV drivers among others if they had to reckon on needing to install in their vehicles a different monitoring system for each country.
That is not on, and I believe that we should, in future, outlaw it.
Secondly, the technology should not be too precisely specified, but should, quite simply, be reliable, efficient and compatible; in other words, its interoperability must be guaranteed.
Past experience has shown us what we have coming to us if these criteria are not met.
In conclusion, then, I hope that, whatever system is introduced, we will not repeat the experience we have had only recently.
Haulage operators sacrificed thousands of working hours in installing systems, only for a country and a region to then decide to do without them.
There is neither point nor purpose to such an exercise, which, I believe, completely fails to achieve something that I regard as a very good thing.
