.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the first phase of the World Summit on the Information Society took place in Geneva from 10 to 12 December this year.
The Summit was attended by around 11 000 participants and can be regarded as a multilateral success to which the European Union contributed substantially.
On 12 December, the delegates adopted a Declaration of Principles and Plan of Action.
These documents now form the basis for a common concept of the information society in all United Nations member states, largely inspired by the European policy of an Information Society for All.
The contributions made by the European Union to the various phases of the Summit preparatory process were, in every case, coordinated European positions which were developed by the Commission in collaboration with the Member States and the presidency, and were always presented in the negotiations by the Chairperson of the relevant Council on behalf of the EU-15 plus 10.
The Summit has enabled major progress to be achieved in several areas.
For the first time, the importance of the information society as a driving force for social and economic development was recognised at a World Summit.
The key role played by legal and regulatory frameworks that promote competition and enable a better range of services to be provided to all citizens was recognised.
The importance of solidarity in the context of combating the digital divide was recognised, along with the role of information and communications technologies (ICT) for advancing the internationally agreed development goals defined in the United Nations’ Millennium Declaration.
In the field of Internet Government, that is, the future administrative and regulatory structures governing the Internet, a working group was set up under the aegis of the UN Secretary-General.
It is open to all participants and its remit is to discuss various options which will then be presented at the second phase of the Summit in Tunis.
On all other points which were still open at the start of the most recent negotiations at the beginning of December, satisfactory results were achieved as well.
This applies especially to the paragraphs on human rights, free access to information and the media.
It also applies to the points on intellectual property, Open Source Software and the security of networks and information.
With regard to funding, the text accepted by all participants recognises the desire of some countries to establish a voluntary Digital Solidarity Fund and the desire of others to undertake an evaluation of existing funding mechanisms and carry out a study on the efficiency and feasibility of such a fund.
This work will be undertaken over the course of next year by a Task Force under the aegis of the Secretary-General of the United Nations.
The Commission will follow up the outcomes of this World Summit and incorporate them into its own policies, especially in the development policy field.
