– Mr President, Commissioner, I have just been to Sicily with a fisheries delegation.
There, too, I was frequently asked how best to deal with the serious danger to resources and the consequent threat of fishing being closed down.
Today I believe that we politicians cannot generalise when answering questions like that.
If I say no, that an endangered resource is not to be barred to fishing, I may have to reckon with the resource not lasting for long, so that only a short time now remains in which it can be used, the inevitable consequence of which is that the socio-economic situation will deteriorate.
If, on the contrary, I say yes, and that the resource should be barred to fishing, this may well promote the replenishment of the stocks, but even then many jobs will be lost in the fisheries sector and in the businesses that depend on it, never to be replaced, and it may be that regions will lose expertise that will never return there.
If we want to effectively counter the threats posed to resources, especially of cod – which are indeed grave – whilst also taking into account all the consequences of our actions, I am now more than ever convinced that our primary need is for a comprehensive strategy for developing coastal regions, which means concerted action, the political will to protect resources, a checklist to be completed and processed, which shall be binding upon all.
What I have called a strategy must involve all the stakeholders: biologists, researchers into marine ecosystems, and environmental campaigners just as much as politicians in the localities, in the capitals and in Brussels, and, last but not least, the fishermen and the fish processing industry.
All of them have to shoulder their share of responsibility.
Just as I have called for there to be what is termed a chain of responsibility in the area of maritime accidents, so I demand that there should be one in this area too.
I urge that this strategic concept now be taken further with action of this kind.
All the information we have indicates that it is five minutes to midnight!
