Mr President, one undoubted reason why Members are so attentive is that they know that this report deals, among other things, with Eurostat, though not with the secret bank accounts but with the quite respectable matter of a proposal for a regulation which would require the Member States to submit quarterly data to Eurostat concerning financial transactions and financial assets and liabilities for all units classified in the general government sector.
The proposal regulates the compilation and characteristics of quarterly data on each Member State’s financing expenses and the timetable for their transmission.
In the context of the Stability and Growth Pact, these are crucial data, because they are the basis of a stable euro.
In the budgetary situation in which several Member States find themselves at the present time and in view of chronic deficits in excess of the 3% ceiling, these data assume even greater importance as a means of accurately measuring the extent of the problems with a view to taking appropriate remedial action.
The French, the Germans and others are already all too familiar with this situation.
My report contains an amendment with which we seek to alter two points in the Commission’s proposal.
First of all, the deadline for the transmission of quarterly data for the central government, state government, local government and social security funds subsectors is shifted from 30 June to 31 December of this year.
This is logical, because June 2003 is now in the past.
Secondly, the Commission is to be given the right to grant a derogation, not exceeding two years, for the starting date of transmission of these data in exceptional cases.
This extension was requested in the Council by various Member States, and particularly by the countries that will be acceding to the Union next year, since these States would find it difficult, pending adaptation of their national statistical systems, to deliver reliable data on time.
Such an extension, however, is without prejudice to the aim of full transmission of all data by 30 June 2005.
I move that this amendment be adopted, so that we can dispense with a second reading of this proposal for a regulation, otherwise the regulation, which is already overdue, could not enter into force in good time.
There is, of course, the possibility that some people here might prefer to continue working with nebulous data in order to conceal their country’s true financial position.
Nevertheless, the Italians would be delighted if they could add this to the list of regulations that have been adopted under their presidency.
