– Mr President, I rise to speak on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists on the subject of the programme intended to support women’s organisations and has replaced the Budget line that formerly funded only the European women’s lobby – that being the umbrella organisation for some 3 000 women’s organisations in Europe, including the national women’s councils, such as the , which has about 11 million individual members in Germany, ranging from church groups to autonomous bodies via political women’s associations and trade unions.
The European women’s lobby has initiated important campaigns, such as the campaign for increased involvement by women in the European elections, has prompted a debate on the constitution, and is monitoring enlargement with a particular eye on equal opportunities issues.
What the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats now wants is for this line to be dismantled.
We want to ensure quality.
We want to speak for women with one voice rather than join in a chorus of many.
In contrast to the rapporteur, my group wants, from the very outset, to make this a priority and ensure action in the European interest in the equal opportunities field.
We will therefore reject most of the rapporteur’s amendments in favour of those put forward by the Committee on Women’s Rights and Equal Opportunities.
We Social Democrats contend that Mrs Dührkop Dührkop has also presented a well-thought out proposal for funding, fully in line with the Budget Regulation, which secures provision of funding up to and including 2008, to the tune of EUR 5.5 million.
That gives women’s organisations the security they need to plan ahead, and spares us another laborious legislative process once the two years are up.
The cofinancing arrangement, with 20% for women’s organisations, with the exception of the European Women’s Lobby, which gets 10%, excluding degressivity, is a solution with which all parties can live.
When enlargement happens, we want the organisations from Central and Eastern Europe also to be included, and we want priorities set.
It is therefore proposed in Amendment 13 – in which there is a translation mistake that I will bring to the services’ attention – that work and family life be made more compatible.
We want to encourage women to play their part in the decision-making process; we want this programme, and the organisations, to support the fight against all forms of violence.
We also want to support the fight against gender-specific stereotyping and discrimination of all kinds, especially in the workplace and in relation to pay, and we also welcome the encouragement given to women’s cooperation in third countries, for example in Amendment 14.
At the very last minute, the Italian presidency of the Council has attempted to bring influence to bear on us to get us to go along with the rapporteur’s proposals.
Both my group and I are hoping for a majority in this House, we are not willing to encourage the fragmentation of women’s voices.
We want unity rather than polyphony.
