– Mr President, my task is a relatively simple one.
The committee adopted both of Mrs Read’s reports by a large majority, without us having to make major changes to them.
This means, Mrs Read, that I can keep my comments relatively brief.
Our group unreservedly endorses the Commission’s intention, which the committee has also approved, namely to increase the upper limit for aid granted for trans-European electronic networks from 10% to 30%.
Although the overall framework is no bigger – which means that fewer projects can be supported – we were persuaded that the 10% limit was too low, so we support this motion, and you can rely on our unconditional support for the first report.
In the second report, your concern is to introduce greater flexibility into pan-European Government services, which are capable of being used in every conceivable way.
In it, you express your desire to do away with the Commission’s distinction between ‘projects of common interest’and ‘horizontal measures’, thus allocating resources, totalling EUR 59.1 million for 2005 and 2006, and EUR 89.6 million for the period from 2007 to 2009, in a more flexible way.
We support you in this concern, too, and I believe that both your reports, in which you describe the problems in great detail, will enjoy the support of a broad majority in this House.
I would now like to conclude with an additional observation on the trans-European networks as a whole, a topic that has been on our agenda for many months, indeed for years.
Up to now, the problem has been that these great projects – whether in transport, telecommunications, in the energy infrastructure, in research and technology – have suffered from insufficient financial resources.
The consequence has been that the implementation of the Essen resolutions, which first sought to promote the trans-European networks, has been very slow, very sparing and very incomplete.
A group of experts under Mr Karel van Miert conducted a mid-year study of the transport infrastructure.
The Commission’s new initiative for growth, the sixty-two projects in which are expected to be signed off by the Summit, deals precisely with this area.
Even though we are, today, discussing only funding and total budget, I can tell the Commissioner that the approach of promoting and extending trans-European networks is the right one if we want, not only to free up markets, but also to make Europe fit for the future and thereby move a bit closer to achieving the goal we set ourselves at Lisbon.
