– Mr President, the issues addressed by these three reports appear at first sight to be of a technical nature.
The new Financial Regulation requires specific legal bases, but, as many speakers have pointed out – and I am particularly obliged to the rapporteurs for doing so – this new legal basis does in fact entail far-reaching practical consequences for the individual areas in question.
I am speaking primarily about the report on active civic participation.
We talk constantly about giving citizens more information about the European process and getting them more involved in it, but I want now to make it abundantly clear that there is a great danger of us, for the sake of the new legal basis and the Financial Regulation, throwing the baby out with the bathwater, and that we will, next year, be complaining that we have more problems with public information in the year of the European elections than we ever did before.
I therefore appeal in urgent terms, particularly to the Commission and to the Council, that greater account be taken of how Parliament votes on these issues, especially as regards the conciliation procedure this coming Monday.
Let me give you just two examples.
The first is the Info-Points, to which Mrs Rühle was right to make reference, and I also strongly endorse the amendment she has moved.
It utterly passes my understanding how the Commission is unwilling to support this amendment.
You are all aware that, in our home countries, the Info-Points serve as points of contact for information on Europe and the European institutions.
Can you imagine the Info-Points in your region being able to do their job if they were restricted by a call for proposals?
This financial insecurity and inadequate institutional backup means that the Info-Points will, in future, be unable to perform their function.
That is what the Commission is proposing to us in this report, and so I want to forcefully draw your attention to this danger.
The same is true of town twinning, from which all of you, in your regions, receive support in your work.
Here too, the bureaucratic process associated with this new legal basis can very much threaten the continuation of the work they do.
And so, let me conclude by reiterating my appeal to the Commission and the Council.
I urge them to take Parliament’s vote on board and arrive at fair compromises that will guarantee rather than imperil public information in the future!
