Mr President, Madam Vice-President, as the chairman of the non-standing committee for the improvement of safety at sea, I would like to extend warm thanks to the members of the committee and to the rapporteur, Mr Sterckx, for the extraordinarily sensible way in which they conducted their deliberations and for their excellent report.
The committee worked consistently in an excellent atmosphere, and everyone attempted to resolve the problems in a sensible manner.
Many thanks.
My special thanks, obviously, go to the staff of the secretariat, under the leadership of Mr Darmis, without whose extremely professional administrative support the rapid but, at the same time, careful work of the committee, including the important trip to Barcelona, would not have been possible.
The hearing of numerous experts with various backgrounds, representatives of the Commission, the European Agency for Maritime Safety, the Irish presidency of the Council, the General Secretary of the IMO and, not least, the acting Vice-President, Mrs de Palacio, in my opinion provided the committee with a broad foundation for its recommendations and assessments.
We once again investigated maritime accidents subsequent to those involving the and the and mainly concentrated on the statutory measures introduced since then at European level to improve safety at sea and their implementation in the Member States.
Of the 56 conclusions, I would like to emphasise four of a general nature.
I will not go into the details.
I believe, however, that four conclusions are so important that they should be emphasised.
The Spanish authorities have successfully stopped the leak of oil from the wreck of the and submitted a timetable for the further pumping away of the oil out of it, so that additional harm to the environment and fishing should be avoided.
We still have the problem that the waste extracted from the sea in the last few months and in the last few years must be carefully recycled, but that is a special problem.
Secondly, in our opinion, the Spanish courts should urgently bring forward the judicial proceedings in respect of the accident and change the conditions applicable to the captain, so that he can return home until they start.
Thirdly, the new regulations resolved on with the ‘Erika I’ and ‘Erika II’ packages of legislation are essentially the right ones for achieving a substantial improvement in safety at sea.
Fourthly – and this is the key point – there is still inadequate transposition of the safety regulations into the national law of some Member States, and therefore into reality.
Accordingly, Madam Vice-President, we support the Commission in its investigations into the implementation measures, in particular with regard to the question of the provision of emergency resting places and crisis response places.
Commissioner, stick to it, put pressure on the Member States, and this House will support you!
