.
Mr President, Commissioner, the proposed directive is intended to replace 15 existing directives on the recognition of professional qualifications.
The Commission has chosen a horizontal approach that carries the danger that all professional qualifications will be lumped together.
That should not happen.
Qualification dumping should be prevented on consumer protection grounds alone.
We must ensure that training is of a high quality.
The Committee is also concerned that cross-border service provision is to be facilitated by lowering the requirements for the standard of qualification of the service provider.
Under the Commission’s proposal, any supplier who is lawfully established in a Member State will be allowed to provide services in another Member State on a temporary basis for 16 weeks in a year, without needing any authorisation or being subject to any controls.
We were unable to agree to that.
Service providers have to fulfil their duty both to the recipient of the service and to the authorities of the host Member State.
That is the only way that control and protection mechanisms can have any effect.
Especially sensitive activities must be subject to controls.
The citizen cannot assess the quality of doctors or tax consultants for themselves, for example.
He relies on the existence of the familiar tried and tested systems of training, qualification and authorisation.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs would also like to be sure that persons who, because of national regulations, are highly qualified professionals are not disadvantaged by comparison with those who have a low level of qualification but the same job title.
It is, however, essential that the wording of the legislation does not call freedom of movement into question.
We therefore welcome the fact that the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Internal Market and its rapporteur Mr Zappalà, whom I congratulate on his balanced report, have found a compromise between a horizontal and a sectoral approach, ensuring that professional organisations were able to contribute their expertise in the transposition of the directive.
