Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that we are discussing in connection with this agreement between the European Community and Israel is more than just a technical one.
It is not just about the legal arguments that have been exchanged with the authors of the four questions during this debate; what is really important is the political issue of whether we wish to promote peace at this point or not.
It goes without saying that the occupation of the occupied territories since 1967 is illegal – that is the position of the United Nations.
Resolution No 242 says that Israel should withdraw to its pre-1967 borders.
This debate has now been going on for over 30 years.
During that time, settlements have been built, and the signing of the Oslo Peace Accord has brought the two sides closer together.
So the question now is this: what will most assist the peace process?
For example, would immediate withdrawal from the occupied territories really serve the cause of peace?
Everyone – including the European Union and the United States – now knows that we need to include steps towards that peace in the road map.
Simple withdrawal tomorrow would not serve the peace process and would lead to fresh conflicts.
Any signal that we as the European Union give at this point is crucial.
We need to remember this: the agreement was concluded in 1975, the Oslo Peace Accord was signed in 1993, and from that moment on the European Union has supported the independence of the Palestinian Autonomy Authority, it has given it over EUR 2 billion and has done very good work.
In Oslo both partners agreed that both areas, the different zones, including the Autonomy Authority, were parties to trade with the European Union.
So regardless of whether the settlement policy is right or wrong, the area in which the settlements are located is an EU partner, either through the agreement with the Palestinian Autonomy Authority or through the EC-Israel Association Agreement.
The comments made by the honourable Member from the political left who spoke first are therefore spurious.
No one on the Palestinian side is exploited through the Association Agreement.
Quite the opposite: if we were to suspend it overnight, the Palestinians who work there would be the first to suffer again.
It is not just settlers who manufacture products there; a good many Palestinian jobs also depend on it.
I think that the Commission's position is very well balanced in making it clear to Israel that this does not imply any recognition of the occupied territories, but that solutions still need to be found, so that an agreement of this kind is made to work and so that we do not pour oil on the fire again.
I welcome the fact that Israel is once again handing over to the Palestinians the tax and customs due to them, and we in the European Union should not give the wrong signal and suspend the agreement as some people have suggested.
That would certainly not help the peace process.
