– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to echo the thanks expressed to the rapporteur, Mr Bowis.
He really did have a very difficult brief, for initially it was not clear at all that our proposal would meet with general approval; the German Federal Government, for example, was very sceptical at first.
Mrs Stihler may like to note that it was, in this respect, more Eurosceptic than the British Conservatives.
Mr Bowis has managed to handle such a controversial topic in such a way that we are on the verge of reaching agreement, and that it really is possible to bring this matter to a conclusion at first reading and before enlargement.
I think it was and is inconsistent for the European Union to have very strong competences when it comes to dealing with the diseases of animals, and to be able to take direct action, but that the same is not the case as regards the combating of diseases that affect human beings, and that, when human health is endangered, the first thing said is the magic word ‘subsidiarity’.
I am all in favour of subsidiarity; I am not in favour of a European super-authority, nor of total harmonisation of health care provision, but this is where European action is right, as we saw from the many examples given in this morning’s debate on avian influenza.
Whilst we have to use the Member States’ competences, this is something we have to bring together at the European level.
I think it right that we should take a pragmatic approach, by starting with communicable diseases – which are the most urgent problem at the moment – and then see where we go from there.
I also think what Mr Trakatellis said was very important, namely that joint debate and the development of vaccination policies must be priorities.
My final comment is addressed to the Council, represented here not by ministers but by officials.
Many Members of this House have made reference to bio-terrorism.
Over three months ago, I addressed a question on this issue to the Council, which it should, in the normal course of events, have answered after six weeks.
I am still awaiting a reply.
Bio-terrorism is too important an issue for us to allow ourselves such delays.
