Mr President, although it is consumer protection that interests people most when we talk about Europe, it has to be said that little has been done here, and that this framework directive too will fail to provide any guarantees that the food scandals of recent years will be a thing of the past.
Unfortunately, food controls are still a farce.
This directive is indeed successful in many areas, and we Greens are particularly pleased that animal welfare has finally been incorporated into food controls.
The intensity of controls has also been improved, so that national control reports are now also required.
Nevertheless, an investigation carried out in Germany has just highlighted the fundamental problem, which is that not enough controls are carried out in practice.
We need much more funding for food controls, so that controls can be carried out more frequently, and so that anyone breaching food regulations runs a genuine risk of punitive action.
That remains the weak point in all the Member States.
We would also like to have seen laboratory methods brought in line, with some harmonisation of how controls are implemented in the Member States.
What we also urgently need – and I have not given up hope, Commissioner, and would be pleased if you could say something about this – is for a consumer information directive to be brought in at last, mirroring the environmental information directive.
That would mean that just as consumers, the public, have the right to know what is happening in the environmental world, they would also have the right to know what is happening in the food sector.
My very last point is this: I hope that the Council will stop playing hide-and-seek and tell us today in the clearest possible terms what the position is on fees and fines, so that this is clear when we come to vote, because we cannot demand more food controls and improved animal welfare if the Council is secretive about this point and there is a lack of transparency towards this House.
That is all we want.
Because what we need is food controls …
