– Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to begin where Mr Chichester left off, that is that we cannot proceed fast enough with opening the energy markets.
I believe we in this Parliament have been united on that for quite some time.
May I remind you that last year, after more than two years’ intensive work, we adopted directives to accelerate the opening of both the electricity and the gas markets in Europe.
I must say, however, that I and a few others, too, were then rather surprised at how quickly this follow-up proposal for a regulation concerning gas transmission networks has come.
We are surprised because the time allowed for the Member States to implement the directive has not yet expired – it will do so in a few weeks’ time – and also because we have set a very ambitious timetable for the Commission to submit an evaluation report on the application and implementation of the directive; it was to happen in 2006.
So much for the background.
I want to raise three points which, I fully admit, have left me rather sceptical.
Firstly, the compatibility between this regulation and the directive we adopted.
Secondly, the justification the Commission has given, which I have not exactly found in the text, namely that the emphasis should be placed on cross-border trade.
The third point that has made me rather sceptical was the proposal for a very wide-ranging comitology procedure.
Now, after a long discussion, as the rapporteur said, we have agreed to continue working on the Commission’s approach.
We have therefore proposed a number of amendments in the three areas I have just mentioned.
So far as my group is concerned, the outcome is that we support the package as a whole.
That is not the end of my group’s work, however.
We are waiting to see what the Council does and then there will be the second reading, but we shall continue to back here in plenary these 42 amendments that were adopted in committee, and we hope that this will bring us a little further forwards in the opening of the energy markets.
