Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I voted against the Paulsen report not so much because of its content – with which I was not totally familiar– than as a reaction to the procedure.
After the vote in committee, we were faced with a result that made implementation of the regulation impossible.
That was a reflection of the widely varying opinions of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Policy.
At the rapporteur’s request, the Council has now, and somewhat unusually, brought forward a new text in advance of the vote in the House.
The rapporteur agreed this text with four of the groups in Parliament and presented it to this House in what I see as a very undignified manner, with new versions of the English text being presented day after day over the last week.
It was not until this morning that all the changes, that is to say changes in the form of the Council text, were presented to Parliament.
We are now looking at a totally new legislative text that has not been discussed in committee beforehand.
This House has had no opportunity whatsoever to adopt a position on this text in committee; instead, the text was immediately presented to the House with adoption today by a non-qualified majority vote.
If we made this system the rule, then we would certainly have a very rapid procedure, and we could deal with all legislative texts within four weeks.
The Council would just have to present a text, four Members of this House would nod it through, and the whole House would vote for it, because it would not be possible to address its actual content.
I regard this way of proceeding as extremely dangerous, because the hallmark of a parliament is the way it debates a topic and its diversity of opinion.
It cannot amount to a dictatorship by a handful of people in the groups, who explain overnight at a group meeting what is in the text, without anyone knowing exactly what is actually being voted on.
I urge you to think about this and only to permit this procedure in exceptional cases in future.
I can of course understand that Mrs Paulsen is anxious to put her report to bed, because she is not coming back.
However, she could also have achieved that by talking to me.
But that is not what happened.
I hope you will take this point on board and reject any such procedure in future.
