.
Mr President, Commissioner, I would like first of all to thank Mrs Echerer most sincerely for the good teamwork and the expertise that characterises it.
This report is the latest reason why I will not be the only one to be sorry that you, Mrs Echerer, will not be standing for this Parliament again.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted my opinion unanimously and because of the good teamwork is also able to vote in favour of the Echerer report.
In drafting this opinion for the forthcoming debate, including that with the Commission, I and the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs were concerned primarily with five particular points.
Firstly, monopolies must always be exceptions to competition law and there must be sound reasons for them.
We know that collecting societies are organised differently in the various Member States and in many they have a monopoly over particular categories of works.
There is therefore a definite need to look more closely at, or review, the territorial monopoly structures, but not to reject them outright.
Secondly, it is in our opinion important to have transparency in collecting societies, such as showing administrative and licence costs separately in the accounts.
Something needs to be done here.
Thirdly – and this is related to the second point – there is in many countries no supervision of collecting societies.
I therefore expressly welcome paragraph 49 of the Echerer Report with its call for efficient independent control mechanisms in all Member States.
Fourthly, my suggestion for a public register that could be accessed electronically, containing all right-holders represented by collecting societies, would make for greater clarity and improved transparency and would certainly also simplify cross-border activity and increase competition.
Fifthly and finally, where the fragmentation of rights gives rise to high transaction costs, the introduction of a one-stop shop system could be a more efficient and cheaper way for users and exploiters of rights.
I ask the Commission to take the contents of the Echerer report on board in its deliberations.
Once again my sincere congratulations and I ask you to vote in favour of this report.
