.
Mr President, let me start with Mr Swoboda’s question on the position of the Sinti and Roma in the European Union, and reiterate that, in all the negotiations on enlargement conducted by the Council and the Commission, very particular attention has been given to the issue of how minorities are treated.
We have examined this question with particular care, and it is quite clear that enlargement will greatly strengthen these minorities in their rights and, above all, protect them.
In consequence, I believe that these minorities will themselves welcome the enlargement of the European Union.
As far as the financial and social dimension is concerned, the new Member States will have access to the Social Funds, which share in funding special programmes vital to the integration of minorities.
In 2005, the new Member States will be able to draw on a total of EUR 900 million from the European Social Fund, and I believe it important that we should ensure that some of this money is applied for this purpose.
Turning to the security issues, this is an area in which the Council has taken more and more decisions; in no other area has the Council adopted so many new resolutions over recent years as in the area of justice and internal affairs, and it goes without saying that these must also be backed up by funding.
In 2005, for example, it is planned that more funding should be made available for the Schengen Information System than had previously been planned, increasing the amount by an additional EUR 4 million.
If I may mention just a couple of courses of action, proposals have been made for funding the conversion of the European Police College into a European institution for training senior police officers, and the network of national training institutes is to be built up.
I would also point out that, over recent years, we have also greatly increased the number of staff working in this area.
If I may quantify this, in 1999, there were 82 posts allocated to this area, whereas next year there will be over 300 of them, the object being to create the area of freedom, security and justice in Europe that we all need.
