– Mr President, as Mrs Junker has just said, Haiti has been independent for 200 years, and, when the terrible Duvalier dynasty of Papa and Baby Doc came to a belated end over ten years ago, we thought that things could only get better, and, indeed, at first they did to some extent.
Mr Aristide carried the hopes of many, but we can all see what has happened in the meantime.
It is not only we Europeans who must ask ourselves where we went wrong with our policy over many decades, what we did or failed to do: the Americans certainly must, for they are closer to hand geographically speaking.
Why did the western half of Hispaniola – which is a large island – turn out like this?
Of course not everything is ideal in the Dominican Republic on the other side of the border, but, all the same, the fact that millions of Europeans and Americans go there as tourists and at least bring some money into the country is an indicator that things cannot be that terrible.
The situation is not yet ideal, but this does show that you can stay in the place with some degree of safety.
It is certain that we must look to ourselves for answers as to what we did wrong.
This House has been making very concrete demands of Haiti; political murders must be stopped; members of the ruling party must be compelled to uphold justice and maintain the law; the militias, the armed brigades and the so-called special brigades of the police must be disbanded and disarmed, and a start must be made on a national dialogue between the government and the opposition, so that the caravan of hope can reach its destination.
What would be best – and what we demand – is that this should be done through the mediation of the United Nations, and that the UN Mission must be re-established to work together with the Haitian police.
The conditions have to be created under which the suspension of the Cotonou agreement in accordance with its Article 96 can again be lifted, for our support is urgently necessary, especially in the areas of education and health.
