– Mr President, as I have to take the chair, I have swapped with Mr Simpson, who will be speaking later on behalf of our group.
Since early last year, the Americans have been demanding the handing over of passengers’ data before they join a flight; some of this information is of a highly personal nature.
The US authorities planned to store this data for fifty years, with it being used not only to combat terrorism and potential dangers associated with it, but also, potentially, being made available to other security agencies as well.
The threat was made that, if the airlines did not comply, they would have to pay heavy fines or risk losing their landing rights.
Not only in this House did this call forth vehement criticisms, one in particular being that this was illegal, in that it is in flagrant breach of two items of European legislation, namely the Data Protection Directive and the Regulation on the handling of data in flight booking.
This, as the Commissioner has said, prompted the Commission to take action.
Where are we now?
The fifty years for which the data was to be stored have now become three and a half.
We have managed to get limitations put on what is done with it.
The data is to be used only in combating terrorism and crimes connected with it.
The rules are to apply for three and a half years in the first instance, after which they are to be renegotiated, and not all the passenger information is to be handed over; the US authorities have, in particular, confirmed that the really personal and sensitive ‘special service information’ and that derived from the ‘special service request’ is to be deleted.
Moreover, legal peace has been restored by the requirement for passengers’ prior consent, and the Commission will see to it that it is we who actively transmit the data – which means that we can also filter it – whereas, at present, it is still collected by the Americans; whilst this may well not, unfortunately, meet European data protection standards, it would be unfair to say that we had not achieved a great deal.
I will end by pointing out to the Commissioner that I see the clause about expiry after three and a half years as being significant in the sense that there is always a tension between, on the one hand, the need to intervene in the private sphere and, on the other, the potential needs of internal security.
If we are to consider extending this system beyond the three and a half years, it must, in that period, be demonstrated to produce real results.
