– Mr President, I wholeheartedly endorse this resolution.
Our primary goal is the conservation of nature, which in the first place means protection of the environment, in other words, the maintenance of the ecological balance.
Secondarily, it means protecting the diversity of species, which is precious and at risk.
Thirdly, it means protecting animals, both as regards the trade in them, the protection of their natural habitats, and, of course, the ways in which people keep animals.
For that reason, I believe that we have to take a very nuanced approach to the trade in animals, as Mr Davies, for one, has done.
There must of course be restrictions to prevent the extermination of endangered animal species, but there are species that would have disappeared without the trade in animals, without their being bred in zoos, and that would have disappeared had they not been preserved for future generations outside their original areas, which have been ravaged by such things as war, civil strife and natural disasters.
So let me make it abundantly clear that I am in favour of this resolution, whilst believing that this is where we must not throw the baby out with the bathwater; I believe it to be obvious and reasonable that the trade in animals should continue to be engaged in within certain tight and restrictive parameters.
Our zoos are doing great things; our geozoo in Munich, for example, has bred very valuable species that would otherwise have disappeared from the face of the earth.
For that reason, it is crucial that we take a measured approach to this.
When it comes, though, to such things as elephants and the trade in ivory, or the trade in rhinoceros horn and much else, that is where we have to take very tough action; on that I agree absolutely with my fellow Members.
As Mrs Isler Béguin said, it is of course the case that it is in these areas that massive profits are to be made, illegally and with relatively little effort, on the black market.
This is where much more use must be made of Europol.
