– Mr President, it is good that greater attention is to be paid to animal welfare requirements in future by shortening transport times and improving transport conditions.
It is far more important, however, that there should be a marked reduction in animal transports themselves.
That really would be in the animals’ interests, and it would also make it more difficult for dangerous animal diseases to spread and reduce environmental pollution from carbon dioxide emissions.
Most people think it is uncivilised to drive animals hundreds or even thousands of kilometres across Europe and the world for slaughter.
They rightly demand that animals be transported to the nearest abattoirs and be marketed from there.
It is after all much easier to deliver frozen meat to remote areas.
Transports of slaughter animals should be limited to four hours.
That is long enough to reach an abattoir from almost any farm anywhere in Europe.
The report says the cross-border transport of animals is necessary because of the unequal distribution of resources and demand, owing to geographical and historical factors.
I cannot support that view.
EU subsidies have nevertheless been widely used to encourage concentration of abattoir capacities.
The main reason is the policy of liberalisation and concentration, which is destroying regional trade patterns.
So long as this policy is applied, everything that is to be done to protect animals during transport will be treating the symptoms and not the cause.
What the report says about giving priority to slaughter close to place of rearing, financial support for local slaughterhouses or the use of mobile slaughterhouses will be impossible to achieve in a European Union of 25 Member States.
The reality is different.
The merger trend in the slaughtering industry is continuing.
The distances over which animals are transported are growing.
Monitoring animal transports from space by satellite positioning may be a very interesting technology, but it is just one method of surveillance, of which in my view we have too many.
The effectiveness of all methods should be looked at again.
This report ought to be promoting regional business cycles.
That is why I can and must say that it needs to be completely revised to that effect.
