– Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, those who bear responsibility at the outset of things – Mr President-in-Office of the Council – have a decisive influence on what happens in later years.
Mistakes made at the outset, or a failure to successfully carry out the programme of work, amount to liabilities for later Presidencies.
Yours is a double responsibility in that your Presidency of the Council coincides with the beginning of a new Parliament and the allocation of portfolios to a new Commission.
While this is an opportunity for continuity and for adjustments, you have also taken on long-standing liabilities, and so there are two things I call upon you to do: one is to put a stop to the Council’s blocking of a decision on the Members’ Statute and give us, by the end of this year, the Members’ Statute that we have demanded.
Secondly, we need a new system for travel expenses, for only then will we be able to practically implement the new travel costs arrangements that we have decided on.
The second burden you have shouldered is that of the declining turnout of voters to the European elections.
What we need is for regions, Member States and European institutions to adopt a uniform strategy for information and communication.
This is where the signing of the Constitutional Treaty offers you an opportunity; use it as the beginning of a professional information and communication campaign.
Rather than have this great European project returned to the national level, see to it that there is a Europe-wide referendum.
Use the Financial Perspective to plan political priorities up to 2013, use the consideration of the Commission’s report on Turkish accession to have a debate on the European Union’s geographical boundaries and on what it is capable of doing, and produce alternatives to full membership for Turkey.
And, in order that we may speedily conclude the road-pricing directive, I ask you to bring the Council round to a single line on transport policy.
