.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to express my sincere thanks for this debate and particularly for the many constructive contributions I have heard here.
We shall certainly endeavour to ensure that, when we formulate the specific legislative proposals we have undertaken to deliver in July, various additional points will be taken into account if possible.
I intend to be brief and address only a couple of points, one being the question of how we propose to deal in future with the so-called Community initiatives.
The idea is that the number of these Community initiatives is to be reduced, which will naturally mean that various specific programmes, such as Leader or others, will no longer be available.
This does not mean, however, that the measures covered by these programmes will no longer exist.
The intention is that measures previously implemented in the framework of individual Community initiatives will be integrated into the mainstream programmes.
In this way, we can ensure, for example, that the Equal programme or measures designed specifically to promote equal treatment of both sexes are given their rightful place in the main programmes.
As far as the outermost regions are concerned, there are, of course, specific treaty provisions of which due account must be taken in the implementation of the relevant measures.
I know that Mr Barnier always attached great importance to the task of looking after the outermost regions, and I can guarantee that they will continue to receive the same level of attention.
The question of the territorial aspect of state aid and the necessary definition of areas eligible for support is indeed a highly sensitive issue, and then there is the concern in some quarters that there could be difficulties in areas bordering on supported regions.
The Commission will devote particular attention to this matter.
On the other hand, however, I cannot subscribe to the view expressed by one Member that our policy will lose its cohesive character after enlargement.
That is quite simply untrue.
Care will still be taken to ensure that the cohesion target we have set ourselves is actually achieved.
Indeed there will also be more funds available for that purpose.
It is not as if all the resources were to be taken from the present 15 Member States and given to the new Member States.
There will be more money.
I fully agree with you that we still need a European – and I emphasise European – cohesion policy.
A mere financial adjustment of the type that some are seeking or have mooted will not, in my opinion, achieve our aim.
