– Mr President, this report on the situation as regards fundamental rights in the European Union contains references to a large number of abuses in different areas.
In view of the recent meeting of justice and home affairs ministers and their messages, I would like to concentrate on the protection of refugees, that is on Article 18 (Right of asylum) and Article 19 (Protection in the event of removal, expulsion or extradition) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
The report, on which I sincerely congratulate the rapporteur, accuses the Member States of so far being unable to agree on a directive on asylum procedures and the status of refugees.
This very week, the home affairs ministers have now agreed to this.
It is good that the new directive will also give people who are fleeing their homelands because of persecution by non-state agents recognised status in all EU countries.
That is something that I and many non-governmental organisations and citizens have worked for.
At the behest of my government, unfortunately, refugees – but not victims of political persecution – are being disadvantaged when it comes to access to the employment market.
I cannot see any objective reason for that and I also think it is counterproductive economically because refugees with so-called subsidiary protection will be forced to work illegally in order to survive.
Those who preach about fundamental and human rights to the outside world must also look at their own performance and not be always looking only at ways their neighbours could improve.
That is right and I am glad the President-in-Office also sees it that way.
Europe’s own record on migration and asylum is in my opinion downright shameful, as the report clearly shows.
I would like to draw particular attention to the fact that people who have made their lives here in the European Union still do not have the right to vote, even though the European Parliament has called for it on many occasions.
I also want to point out that the concept of a safe third country will make it virtually impossible for refugees to enter the European Union legally in future.
The only way to get asylum here will be to jump out over Europe with a parachute.
I would therefore like us in Europe to have the courage to make a change of policy so that we will not again have a report criticising the European Union for so many different serious violations of human rights.
