– Mr President, Russia is a major and important partner for us, one with whom we are joined – or one could say, from whom we are separated – by two things: shared interests and common values.
As regards the values, today finds us criticising the way in which democracy and the rule of law are developing, as well as the situation in Chechnya, but, in so doing, we must not lose sight of our many shared interests.
Now that the European Union is enlarging, it is vital that the borders between the European Union and Russia should not become new barricades; instead, we should also use them as bridges and as a means whereby the partnership and cooperation agreement may be extended.
Our provision of aid is important, for it also helps to promote liberalisation within Russia.
It is important that Russia should be able to join the WTO – in the same way as everyone else rather than subject to special conditions – and, if the normal conditions apply, then we should also support it in doing so.
We have shared interests in energy, security and the combating of terrorism.
This, I think, is something we should make clear, and we should not allow the situation in Belarus to result in energy not being supplied to the European Union as contractually agreed.
In many areas, the enlargement of the EU does not create a new situation, and we should not confuse the issues.
The continuation of the partnership and cooperation agreement after the European Union is enlarged must not mean that we accept claims for compensation arising out of trade issues, for then the whole world could do likewise, and I do not believe that a precedent of this kind would be acceptable; the question also arises of whether the figures Russia has produced are correct.
We also have to make it clear, though, that the Baltic States’ negotiation of accession to the European Union has helped to put minorities there in a position not shared by minorities in many other parts of the world and perhaps not in certain parts of Russia.
The issue of the minorities cannot be an excuse for delaying the signature of the border treaties or, in any case, for delaying their ratification.
This has to be done now, and for that clarity is needed.
Both by means of technology and through cooperation, we should help Russia to establish exemption from visa requirements, but this must be done in such a way that the Schengen standards for the acceding countries can be maintained, in order to maintain internal security.
In doing this, we should work for good relations with Russia, and recognise that it can be a factor for stability only if we accept that it, too, possesses territorial stability.
This is something else we have to take on board.
