– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for his good cooperation, as well, of course, as the other Members of this House who are present here today.
I think we have ended up looking in the right direction, especially as regards the issue of air-conditioning in cars, about which something has to be done, and, for the benefit of, among others, our visitors, let me say that what was agreed in Kyoto is binding in law within the European Union.
What the decisions of 2002 and of 10 March this year mean is that this is binding in the European Union whether Russia ratifies or not, so we too have to do something about this.
I think the facts are there for all to see.
The first fact is that more and more cars have air-conditioning; it is fitted in 80% of all new vehicles, and every year these units discharge between about 8% and 10% of the gases that damage the climate.
The second fact is that alternatives of various kinds are in the process of development.
I think it is perfectly clear that we have to go down the road of seeking out the safest alternatives possible with the absolute minimum of global warming potential.
Thirdly, that alternative is in fact a CO2-based air conditioning unit with a global warming potential 1 300 times less than at present.
Fourthly, I believe that we have to adopt the same approach to the type approval of new cars as we do to everything else, as construction, involving the energies of engineers, plays a part in that, and we have to demand, as soon as possible, new air conditioning systems.
Fifthly, CO2-based air conditioning systems are European technologies and European products, which, I think, also makes it apparent that, if we move on down this road, from f-gases to CO2-based air conditioning systems, the air-conditioning system of the future will indeed no longer be a climate-killer; on the contrary, the air conditioning unit of the future can also be a hit where European jobs are concerned.
