Mr President, I am entitled to two minutes’ speaking time, and I wanted to take advantage of this, because we Germans are so keen to talk about electronic toll systems.
Mr President, election period or not, we are proceeding with the second reading on the interoperability of toll-collection systems in the European Union, and this is truly a subject that Germans like to address.
Toll-collection technology has, of course, been on our agenda in Germany for several months.
That is not my main point, though.
By and large, the Council has now adopted our amendments from the first reading.
This represents a good bit of work on our part in the European Parliament, because we made major changes to the Commission draft.
We firmly believe that it is not a matter for the legislature to prescribe the use of one particular toll system in a binding legal instrument.
It will now remain possible to use satellite positioning and mobile telephony as well as 5.8 GHz microwave communication for the collection of tolls in the European Union.
The only thing it is important to prescribe is that these technological solutions must be interoperable, in other words that a vehicle must be able to operate throughout Europe with a single on-board unit – one device per vehicle and one contract per customer.
And that is precisely what we shall achieve now through the establishment of a European electronic toll service.
We have called this ‘contractual interoperability’.
This was the specification laid down by the present draft directive, and the draft now fully meets that specification.
The market – the forces of free competition – will now determine which system becomes the electronic toll technology of the future.
At the same time, however, we wish to make it crystal-clear that, in view of the vast array of potential additional uses of satellite positioning and mobile communications, their adoption is to be recommended in principle – provided that the strictest of measures are put in place to protect personal data.
The innovative European project Galileo will provide the information services for this purpose from 2008.
In short, the common position as it now stands constitutes an absolutely excellent outcome.
I should like to take this opportunity to express my sincere thanks to everyone – to the Council, the Commission and especially the shadow rapporteurs of the other groups – for their extremely cooperative approach in this matter.
