– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, having only two minutes available to me, I would like to start by saying that I wholeheartedly endorse the arguments that Mrs Rothe has put forward over the last five minutes.
I will, however, make some observations by way of adding nuances.
The need to protect the climate and the environment means that renewable energies, which will reduce our dependence on oil and gas, are the form of energy for the twenty-first century; without them, though, even with the development strategy, billions of the world’s people will have no future.
It is of course a good thing that they will also enable us to create jobs in Europe.
I have heard this week that Mr Kerry, the Democrat candidate for the American presidency, has announced that the USA, too, intends to derive 20% of its energy from renewable sources by 2020, and this represents a gigantic boom for European industry, as we are the leaders in renewable energy technology, and this will benefit European industry too.
If the EU is to create security for investment in the energy sector and in others, then it needs long-term climate protection goals, with renewable sources producing at least 60% of energy by 2050 and at least 20% by 2020.
Today, we have less of a problem with renewable energies themselves – in which we are ahead of the field – than with a strategy for efficiency, in which we lag behind China.
Yesterday, in the Council, the possibility of coming to an early agreement on the Eco-Design Directive evaporated, as we are no longer able to make ‘win-win’ directives of that sort palatable to the Council, or perhaps also because there is too much lobbying on the part of industry.
The resolution, which is supported by all the political groups, also makes it plain that the European Investment Bank must play a higher-profile role.
As things stand today, not even 10% of its loans are made to support renewable energies; as they are the energies of the future, that is another area in which political pressure needs to be exerted.
