Mr President, please be patient, I have the floor.
I have two reports, but you may be reassured to know that I shall be speaking only once.
As rapporteur for all regulations on the basis of which Eurostat has to quickly compile the best of statistics for us, I would again like to recommend here and now that you approve my two reports with the usual enthusiasm.
The first is about a regulation under which we and everyone concerned – primarily the European Central Bank – will now receive quarterly information on Member States’ debt.
That is very important, even if the blue letters for the deficit procedure continue to be issued on the basis of the annual figures – and even if they do not.
As you know, Member States are not treated equally in this respect.
Mr Eichel and Mr Mer might, however, discover the scale of their budget problems sooner.
They might even find out sooner what their efforts at consolidation have achieved, if they have made any.
The second report is concerned with a regulation that is to provide us with quarterly national accounts data, specifically on the contribution made by the individual sectors ‘households’, ‘companies’ and ‘government’.
The United States have had that for a long time now, because it is important for monetary policy and economic analysis to know how the various players are behaving.
The Ecofin Council recognised a year ago that the lack of information on the behaviour of households and companies in the business cycle was a major deficiency of EMU statistics.
However, all countries whose gross domestic product is lower than 1% of the EU25 total will not have to report data on transactions in the households and companies sectors.
Mr President, I have twice two minutes’ speaking time and I will keep to that – you can make as much noise as you want.
Those excluded are Luxembourg and all the new Member States except Poland.
They, too, however, must supply the quarterly data on transactions in the ‘general government’ and ‘rest of the world’ sectors.
Now you know what is involved and, as in the past, you can vote in favour of my two reports with a clear conscience.
They are my last reports for this legislative period, in which, counting today, I have spoken nine times on statistical reports.
I do not know whether I will be able to take care of these statistics regulations after the 13 June elections; they are much drier than wine and honey.
However that may be, I thank you for the confidence and enthusiasm you have always shown for my reports.
