Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the House has before it a directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, which we welcome.
It is in fact something we urgently need in order to create clarity and legal certainty throughout the European Union.
The horizontal approach is a good one.
It will produce uniform legislation instead of a diversity of solutions.
The work on this text has however cost a lot of time, commitment and sweat.
That was because of the variety of professional fields involved and also, to be perfectly honest, the flood of requests made to us by the persons concerned and by their professional organisations.
The rapporteur has worked very hard and with the help of committed colleagues on the Committee has achieved a remarkable partial success.
But it is not an ideal solution.
The plenary is therefore now faced with a tremendous number of amendments.
I myself have tabled 50 amendments on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats and Socialists with a view to turning a good intention into a good directive.
On the one hand, our amendments are designed to encourage professional mobility and freedom of establishment within the Union.
At the same time, with consumer interests in mind we want to help to ensure that high-quality services can be offered everywhere.
That requires rules and conditions, which, on the other hand, we want to keep to a necessary minimum.
Only if we prevent a bureaucratic jungle from growing in the first place will we create genuine freedom of movement and mobility.
With these objectives in mind and wanting to reach a good outcome, I have spent a lot of time listening attentively in the last few months.
We then consulted fellow Members here in the House and looked for ways to safeguard the livelihoods of the persons concerned today and to give their professions a bright future in Europe tomorrow.
The result of those consultations is embodied in amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
All you need to do is to agree to them, and we will have a good directive on the recognition of professional qualifications.
I would just like to add a few words to Mr Harbour.
We have had a lot of discussions with engineers and I have listened to them very carefully and I entirely understand your approach.
Perhaps your group will be able to vote in favour of one of the amendments tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists, which proposes that engineers join together on a platform that will find consensus in their profession, and we might be able to include that consensus at a later date in further deliberations about the directive we are discussing today.
