– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there are two things I want to say.
We spent a great deal of time yesterday considering the Boogerd-Quaak report on the media, which has been a matter of some controversy.
I would like to say that we regard the refusal by the President of Parliament to permit the amendments as lacking any legal justification and we are therefore contesting his decision.
We will also be considering legal action to test whether the rights of Members of this House can be set aside by sweeping aside all the amendments, as was done in this instance.
It is because we regard this as a very serious course of action that our group will not be taking part in today’s vote on the Boogerd-Quaak report on the media, thereby recording our protest and our inability to accept this decision.
There is a second matter that I would like to address, and it has to do with what Mr Barón Crespo said in the plenary yesterday.
The first question that has to be dealt with has to do with the background to Mr Barón Crespo’s assertion that documents had disappeared from the Committee on Citizens’ Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, for, if that is indeed the case, then it follows that it could affect all the procedural issues connected with the Boogerd-Quaak report.
I would, however, ask Mr Barón Crespo to withdraw the allegations he made in the plenary yesterday, which are, unfortunately, not recorded in the Minutes.
Yesterday, I heard the remarks that Mr Barón Crespo addressed to Mr Tajani, and they are recorded on the House’s official tapes, but not in the Minutes.
Yesterday, Mr Barón Crespo said to Mr Tajani, for whom we all have high regard: ‘, which, when translated, means ‘shut up, you wretch!’
I think it unworthy for one Member of this House to describe another in these terms, and I ask Mr Barón Crespo to withdraw this remark.
Something else was said, and I regret that.
I had never thought I would have to say something like this in this House.
There is, though, something that binds us together no matter what disputes we may have with each other, and that is our mutual respect.
That is something that our group, at any rate, stands for, and such language should not be used to anyone.
I will add that Mr Barón Crespo also said something that I will read out, which was taken down for me from the tape.
I am reading it in Spanish, a language that I, unfortunately, do not speak, and so I apologise if I am not getting it quite right: ‘’ Translated, that means: ‘I would ask the wild boar running loose in this Chamber to calm themselves!’
Such, ladies and gentlemen, is not the language that should be used here in the European Parliament, and I ask Mr Barón Crespo to put right the remarks he made yesterday.
