. – Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, as this is Parliament’s last report before the historic date on which the EU is to be enlarged, I would like to make a statement in my capacities as co-chairman of the EU-Czech Republic Joint Parliamentary Committee and as rapporteur for Malta.
As the date draws nearer, expectations become all the more realistic; enlargement will not do away with every problem at one fell swoop.
Over and over again, I get letters from members of the public pointing out ways in which, contrary to the official line, Beneš decrees are to this day being applied in cases in which compensation is outstanding.
The only comment I can make on this is that I would see a more sensitive handling of history and of such historical figures as Edvard Beneš as being desirable.
Nevertheless, Austria is one of the countries that stand to gain most from enlargement and it is profiting, above all from strengthened trading relations with, and investments in, the Czech Republic.
As its neighbours, we were strongly supportive of its accession, in the expectation that enlargement in Central Europe would bring peaceful development and economic growth.
Turning to Malta, I cannot do other than congratulate this important small Mediterranean state, situated where Europe and North Africa meet, on its decision to join the European Union, a decision now supported by all its political forces, and also on the efforts the country has made to prepare itself for the EU.
When one considers the structural weaknesses of its shipyards and, in general terms, the need to convert a protected and insular economy into an open market economy, the adoption of the EU’s was a great challenge and a major achievement for this small island state.
All I can say to the Maltese people, though, is that they must have no fear that they, as a small country, will be swamped in something as large as the European Union.
The appointment of Mr Borg, Malta’s foreign minister, as its Commissioner, shows the value that Malta attaches to its accession to the EU.
