– Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in four weeks’ time, the European Union will be experiencing its biggest enlargement so far, an event that will bring about long-term change in Europe, and one that must be a popular success for the European Union.
There can be no doubt about the fact that the enlarged EU will need time to consolidate.
The public can scarcely understand that an event of this magnitude does not happen all at once, and that we need, at the same time, to set in motion a process to speed enlargement up.
It is with these things in mind that the debate on Turkish accession must be conducted.
I do not suppose that anyone in this House is unaware of Turkey’s geopolitical significance, or does not welcome its steps towards democracy and human rights.
Nor, though, can there be anyone who would deny that there is a gulf between what legislation presumes and what has actually been implemented with regard to all these issues.
Reference has already been made to the fact that Turkey is one of the countries producing the most asylum seekers, and Austria, for example, grants asylum to more Turks than to anyone else.
I nevertheless believe, as does the delegation to which I belong, that, in concentrating on purely political criteria, the report on Turkey takes too narrow a view.
That is why my delegation and I endorse all the motions aimed at securing a broader basis for this debate.
There is no reason why the Commission should not produce a study on the effects of Turkish accession on the European Union, whether as part of the report that is due in October or as a separate study.
Consideration must be given to the repercussions on structural policy, on the common agricultural policy, and on the institutions of the European Union.
When the report is produced, in October, the options for Turkey should also be set out, and these should not focus solely on accession; we have to offer them alternatives in good time.
That we owe to ourselves and to them.
I would like to conclude by extending warm thanks to Mr Oostlander, who has, as rapporteur, been magnanimous enough not to inhibit discussion, and has remained sensitive enough to keep faith with himself.
What this report on Turkey now presents us with, though, is the opportunity to send an important political signal and to put the debate on a broader basis.
It is not acceptable that we should limit ourselves to political criteria in the narrowest sense of the word.
It must also be possible to examine and assess the likely effects on the European Union.
If that is not done, the voters will never forgive us.
