– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats warmly welcome you, along with Mr Nicolai, your Minister for Europe, and your colleagues.
In the Netherlands, you have always been committed to European integration, and that will be of immense value in making your Presidency a success.
Let me also say that the Dutch delegation in our group, led by our new Member Camiel Eurlings, does an excellent job of work, and they will generate the support your Presidency will need from our group; it goes without saying that you will have it.
The most important task before us is more a matter of political psychology; it involves the inward completion of the enlargement of the European Union, and our gaining an understanding of each other.
It is about ministers in the Council of Ministers understanding each other, about the peoples understanding each other and being willing to learn from one another and to meet each other halfway, and, if we have that respect and regard for each other, I am sure that will make for great success.
Your Presidency will see the signature of the European Constitution, and the Group of the European People’s Party sees the success of that as having the utmost priority.
That is crucial, whether the decision is taken by referendum or by parliamentary bodies, as some countries’ traditions require.
It must be a success, and that is where you are the vital link in the chain of which you have spoken.
You mentioned the internal market.
I cannot but emphatically endorse what you said about the continuing completion of the internal market, and also about the further realisation of the research area that you mentioned – as did the President of the Commission as well.
We have to get young scientists to stay in Europe; they have to have prospects here that will keep them from emigrating to the USA or to other countries.
Where the completion of the internal market is concerned, that is a priority.
You mentioned enlargement.
Contentious though the issue of Turkey is for us, it is important that the criteria should be complied with, that there should be no political opportunism and, should negotiations take place, that consideration be given to alternatives, such as, for example, a privileged partnership with Turkey.
You mentioned the Financial Perspective.
We are in favour of establishing a committee in this House to consider these issues, and I would remind you that the Financial Perspective is not just the responsibility of the ministers on the Council, but we have an equal share in these matters, and that is something on which we insist.
I would now like to turn to an issue that may appear a matter of form or symbolic – that of the family photos, about which I said something to the Irish presidency earlier today.
We do not accept the constant marginalisation of the Presidents of Parliament and of the Commission.
This Europe of ours is a community, and so, when such photos are taken, the Presidents of the institutions should be at the centre.
You spoke of Europe’s values.
We are very much behind you in calling a number of conferences on the subject, and that will build up our optimism for Europe.
I trust that all Europe’s media will now take up your reference to Ilma Kaulina from Riga, who believes in Europe’s future.
I am quite convinced that, if everyone does his or her duty, this continent has a great future ahead of it.
That is what you are working towards, and in that our group wishes you much success.
