Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, Commissioner Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my warm thanks to the rapporteur who dealt with the issue of Parliament's preliminary estimates for 2005 with his customary flair.
I wish to thank him particularly for his efforts, from the outset, to achieve a consensus across the groups.
It is very important that on the one hand, we jointly contribute to ensuring that in terms of its administration, the European Parliament is able to master the challenges of enlargement fully.
After all, we are the institution which is most affected, because all the languages must be available from 1 May and we have very different working methods from the Commission, the Council, the Court of Justice or the Court of Auditors.
On the other hand, we must also make a contribution to strengthening the European Parliament itself, and the public's 'ownership' of it, on a long-term basis.
To this end, the rapporteur has put forward a number of sound proposals – he has just outlined the various points – and I would like to thank him particularly for that.
Mr Kuckelkorn, as regards Mr Balfe, I would point out that the amendment concerned was not tabled by the group, which is why the group is unable to take any action here.
The amendment comes from at least 32 Members – I am not sure of the precise number of signatures – who have tabled this motion.
That is permissible under the Rules of Procedure and I would ask you to respect that.
Let me, however, also make it clear that I am one of the Members who has opposed Mr Balfe's proposals most vigorously.
Let me be blunt: it is not the European Parliament's task, faced with a situation in which healthcare in some Member States – I shall phrase it very carefully – is not entirely satisfactory and legal restrictions apply, to solve problems in this area for a few specific and privileged Members at the European taxpayer's expense.
I say this quite frankly, and I have said the same thing to Mr Balfe himself.
At the moment, we are being bombarded with e-mails explaining why we should definitely vote in favour of this amendment.
Members from three Member States are involved.
What these Members should be doing, quite simply, is helping to ensure that the health system in their own countries functions effectively, then they would not need any over-provision at European level.
Let me be blunt about that too.
I hope, Mr Kuckelkorn, that after the European elections – I am assuming that the voters will be merciful and draw the line at number 30 on your party list so we still have the pleasure of your company, whereas I am in a position where I can be rather more confident – we will be able to adopt this budget jointly, for it is extremely important that in our capacity as the representatives of Europe's citizens, we address this task very seriously and thus help ensure that Europe does not drift away from its citizens.
That is this Parliament's honourable task.
We are committed to it, and we intend to remain committed to it after 13 June as well.
