Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer, in discussing the budget for 2005, we have, of course, merely set the ball rolling.
It will be a matter for the next Parliament to bring the process to a conclusion.
In this respect it is an unusual budget.
It is also unusual in that it is heavily influenced by the particular context in which it is being prepared.
On the one hand, we want to make enlargement work and must therefore create the appropriate conditions.
In addition, everything to do with enlargement is all about the future and about the availability of financial resources too.
We shall also discuss the budget in the light of the debate on the financial perspective, because this 2005 budget will be the last but one before the new financial perspective.
It goes without saying that the figures we estimate represent choices for the future, and they will also be one of the foundations of the debate on the financial perspective, whether we like it or not.
At the same time, Europe is not an island.
We Europeans must engage in international politics, whether in the field of foreign policy, where we must work to prevent conflict, or in the sphere of internal security, to which you have referred, where we must play our part in a concerted effort to combat international crime.
Lastly, we must rise to the challenge of global competition and ensure that our businesses and our economy can hold their own.
As in the preceding years, we shall try to ensure that the budget on the table in front of us is a tight one, even in the conditions I have just described.
It must, however, also be adequate.
We shall not let anyone cry ‘miser’ at those who advocate great prudence and thrift, nor shall we tolerate any accusations of extravagance against those who point out that more money is needed in particular areas.
In the process of drawing up this budget in the conditions I have described, which make it no easier to reach agreement, we shall continue to adhere to the line we have always taken in the past, pressing for the adoption of a tight but adequate budget, so that the public know that they can rely on the European Parliament to deal responsibly with budgetary matters.
