– Mr President, thank you very much for your consideration; great things are currently going on in my group, and so we had to be there.
I would like to extend very warm thanks to the Irish presidency of the Council.
In these days, we are witnessing history being made, and it is the Irish presidency that is making it.
Through its shrewd and prudent conduct of the negotiations, whereby it is nevertheless boldly pursuing its objective, it has been able to put the Constitution back on the table.
I would like to thank them warmly for this.
I believe that we can still see a few places in which substantial negotiation will still be necessary.
The Taoiseach, as the President-in-Office of the Council, has also made this clear with his points – first six of them and then a further 22.
I would like once again – like many speakers – to make it clear that the budget right, and the associated Financial Perspective, is the prerogative of any parliament.
I hope that this will be remembered in the negotiations.
We have also sought this Constitution in order that an enlarged EU should have the capacity for action.
We have succeeded in getting double majority accepted in principle; now, though, we must also have figures for the double majority, so that it enables greater decision-taking power.
Thirdly, I believe, precisely in the case of majority voting in the Council, that it must be ensured that we insist on majority voting in particular in the areas in which our citizens are particularly threatened because of terrorist actions, namely justice and internal policy.
Just to mention here three important areas in this context.
I would also like to point out, however, that we, in this Parliament, should make joint efforts with the Commission to support the Irish presidency.
If it were to be confirmed that Mr Barnier has become the French Foreign Minister – which I regard as good news – I would be glad if, because of its importance, his position in the Intergovernmental Conference were to be reallocated to President Prodi himself in the next few months, in order thereby to underline the fact that the Commission, too, is right behind the process.
