– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, looking around the Chamber, I get the feeling that it is not yet clear to some people – most of us, indeed – that meeting the Lisbon objectives, a policy for growth and employment, and hence the Spring Summit, rank alongside the constitution, enlargement, the European elections and the appointment of the Commission as the European Union’s most important policy area and the most important thing it has to deal with this year.
I think we need once and for all to stop weeping and wailing and apportioning blame; instead, let us for once remember that we have adopted enough resolutions and set ourselves enough targets, that now is the time to at last abide by the resolutions and buckle down to achieving the objectives.
It is positively paradoxical that it should be Germany, France and the United Kingdom who have agreed that they want to plant a super-Commissioner in Brussels to handle economic coordination, that it should be they of all countries, one of which is not in the euro zone and is blocking the constitution that will make Europe stronger on the world stage, and the other two break EU law by breaching the Stability and Growth Pact, even obliging the Commission to go to the European Court of Justice.
I do not believe that a super-Commissioner can make up for the Member States’ lack of political will, and, rather than allowing him to distract us, we should once and for all put into practice the resolutions we have adopted, which means putting them to work in the Member States.
I have to tell Mr Della Vedova that this also applies to the agricultural budget.
The fact is that it was these Heads of State or Government who had already decided that, because the agricultural budget was to remain stable and on this level from 2006 to 2013, no change was possible – something that I welcome.
Continually casting doubt on decisions already made, rather than implementing them, weakens us all.
There are those in this House – those on the Left, for example – who say that the Stability and Growth Pact is the reason why the Member States do not do their homework, but I then have to tell you that it is Germany and France – two prominent countries – that are jeopardising the Stability and Growth Pact and failing to abide by it.
It is the same two countries that head the list of those who are failing to transpose the internal market directives, and the same two countries that are also foremost in calling for a super-Commissioner.
We need stability and growth, for on them competitiveness depends, itself the foundation of growth and employment, without which there is no social cohesion.
Let us stop playing the market off against the state, and instead push for our system of the social market economy, which leads to social cohesion.
Let us stop playing investments and debts off against each other, and instead stick to that to which we have committed ourselves.
