– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, if I have understood the President-in-Office’s speech correctly, I think I perceive a vision behind it which allows us to preserve the momentum from the Intergovernmental Conference.
I think we have to see whether there is indeed still a chance of reaching a decision before the European elections.
It will be very difficult to sustain public awareness of what has been agreed by the Convention and the Intergovernmental Conference thus far, but not been formally recorded, until December of this year.
We have to be aware that if there is no Constitution, there will also be no Charter of Fundamental Rights.
Consequently, citizens will not be voting for the Commission President in the European elections, there will be no such mandate given and no participation for the national parliaments.
Instead, a defence union will be formed outside the framework of the European Union, with all that entails for NATO, the transatlantic alliance and access for all European Member States of the European Union.
I think that would put us back on track for creating a Europe of individual alliances, and gradually returning to the situation that existed in 1914.
For this reason, Mr President-in-Office, I think you hold a great deal of responsibility.
Whatever happens, we cannot allow the decision-making mechanisms in the Council to exceed the thresholds established at Nice.
Indeed, we must stay below that threshold at all stages of the negotiations, because our ability to act must be preserved and cannot be allowed to end in a half-hearted compromise.
We also need an appropriate balance between large and small states.
I think that the large states of Spain and Poland, which are so important to the European Union, must be treated with proper consideration, but they must also be made aware that they share responsibility for ensuring that the European Union continues to develop.
I trust your diplomatic skills will produce an appropriate response from these countries.
