– Mr President, Madam Vice-President, speaking on behalf of my group, I wish to extend warm thanks to the three rapporteurs.
It is rather sad that there is nobody here – no journalists, no members of the public – but that is how things are.
The three rapporteurs have done an excellent job of dealing with substantial legislative initiatives, and we are pleased with the progress that has been made.
I would like to thank Mr Clegg for having enabled us to come to an agreement with the Council on a joint regulation protecting our airlines against subsidisation and unfair pricing practices.
Both of us – indeed, I believe, all of us – agree that this is not so much about the use of weaponry as about stocking up an ammunition box, one that we hope will enable us to prevent unfair subsidisation in America, among other places.
We can in any case, if a stop is not put to it, threaten them with a whole ammunition depot full of sanctions against their airlines and to the benefit of our own.
While we have no desire to restrict competition, we do want to have an ammunition box for the sake of fair competition at global level.
Mr Dhaene has done well to improve the practical details of the Regulation establishing common rules in the field of civil aviation security.
I think that Parliament and the Council will endorse the Commission’s approach, which involves adapting the highly stringent rules that we need, post-9/11, to smaller airports in a practicable and affordable way, so I am grateful to Mr Dhaene for his practical solution.
Contrary to what might sometimes be believed, we are not just engaged in enacting meaningless laws.
Mr Nicholson probably had the toughest brief, that of insurance requirements, which is the most expensive issue to deal with.
On these, insurance premiums depend, and they can get very expensive.
I think we have managed to reconcile both the passengers’ interest in having a proper and high level of insurance cover and the airlines’ interest in premiums that remain affordable.
The amounts involved represent a fair compromise.
It is, I think, a very fine thing that Mr Nicholson has managed to take the right approach to gliders, too.
In conclusion, I would like to reiterate my thanks to Vice-President De Palacio.
We are engaged – as we need to be – in adopting every kind of legislation relating to air transport by the end of this legislative period.
One might say that a majority in this House, drawn from every political group, is united in favouring the adoption of these practical rules for really safe air transport, so, on behalf of my own group, let me thank the rapporteurs and the Vice-President.
