– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, but above all Mrs Echerer, congratulations on the Sisyphean task that I am sure this report has been.
That was inevitable with such a many-facetted subject, but its success is a tribute to you.
We do not always have so large a consensus in this Parliament, and that shows that people have now become more aware of the problems.
I will illustrate this with a few figures.
When it comes to child pornography on the Internet, the media are full of headlines and leaders.
But far less attention is paid to economic crime.
If artists’ rights are ignored and they are denied the fair income to which they are entitled, that is also an aspect of economic crime.
An economic loss of 5% of Gross National Product has been mentioned here; broken down into individual areas, it looks like this: 25% of audiovisual industry output is counterfeit, with sound recordings accounting for as much as 40%.
It has become a lucrative market for organised crime.
It is not simply a matter of lawbreaking by individuals becoming widespread.
As is rightly described in detail here, it is also due to excessively lax and at any rate very different laws in the various Member States, which encourage such product piracy and use of counterfeits.
The result is economic loss on a tremendous scale – lost tax revenue, lost jobs, lost investment confidence, which can be seen in the music industry in particular, but it also means lost rights for people like you and me, namely a loss of consumer protection, a loss of young people’s welfare and the like, and in the end it is also a threat to cultural diversity.
It follows that a uniform legal basis for the protection of intellectual property is long overdue.
The collecting societies that have already been mentioned many times have a particular part to play here, especially in light of the changed market conditions that we find in the information society.
How that can and should be done is described in detail in the report, which also contains the opinions from the other committees.
As a member of the Committee on Culture, I think it is particularly important to stress that the collecting societies are not simply a kind of protective association, but that they always have a cultural function as well, regardless of how they are organised.
The protection and exploitation of rights in intellectual property help to promote culture and cultural diversity, so the Committee on Culture is right, in its opinion, to call on the Commission to pay particular attention to this aspect.
