– Mr President, Commissioner, Austria currently enjoys perfectly trouble-free relations with Russia, as demonstrated by the most recent state visits and President Putin’s fondness for skiing in our country.
It is for that reason that I find this picture of the European Union’s relations with Russia all the more regrettable.
The EU’s relations with Russia are not a one-way street.
They need to be optimised if the interests of the enlarged EU are to be given the same weight as Russia’s.
It is also an indispensable requirement – let me repeat, an indispensable requirement – that the partnership and cooperation agreement, which has been in force since 1998, should now be extended to cover the European Union’s ten new Member States.
What formerly stood in the way of this was the objection that the enlargement of the EU would put Russia at a disadvantage on the market, so that it demanded that compensation be paid.
This line of argument really is questionable, as the enlargement of the European Union will automatically create, for Russia too, a market with a great deal of purchasing power, and that cannot fail to be good for its economy.
Cooperation in decommissioning nuclear power stations that are ready for scrapping, or in the disposal of nuclear waste off the Kola peninsula and in the North Sea leaves something to be desired, to say the least, and it is far from clear why Russia has so far turned a deaf ear to the demands for safe tankers in the Baltic.
What makes it astonishing that the alleged difficulties of the Russian minority in the Baltic states keep being brought up is the fact that both the OSCE and the Council of Europe believe that the problem is no longer there.
By way of contrast, the OSCE was barred from entering Chechnya.
The fact that most of the asylum seekers and refugees in Austria are Chechens can only be taken as an indication of how appalling the situation there is, although I do not want in any way to downplay the crimes committed by terrorists against the public in Russia.
And, even though the EU has been very accommodating with regard to Kaliningrad, there has not to date been any agreement to take back refugees or illegal migrants.
With presidential elections now in the offing, I deliberately do not now want to discuss Russia’s internal politics – reference has already been made to ‘managed democracy’ – even though they must inevitably have an effect on relations between Russia and the EU.
Even so, it does not make sense to keep quiet about problems when dealing with them cannot fail to help promote good relations between Russia and the EU.
