– Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, global international trade plays an essential role in securing jobs in Europe, and especially in creating new ones.
We have now got through a development round the core task of which is to bring about the right changes to internal imports into Europe.
Although imports are, in principle, a very important and very good way to supporting development aid, we must not, on the other hand, overlook the need for our own small and medium-sized enterprises to be encouraged in their turn to export their products.
The euro/US dollar parity and China’s present growth potential in excess of 8% per annum must prompt us to consider how we are to maintain our trade balance in future.
To do that, we do, of course, have to be capable of competing on global markets.
I believe it is a good thing, and that it will in future be important, that Europe should take on a certain leadership role in this area, that we should use regular conferences within Europe as a means of affirming our commitment to this and, as soon as possible, come up with feasible strategies and objectives, with a definite timetable.
A single multilateral legal framework is, of course, of particular interest to Europe’s small and medium-sized enterprises, which employ in any case two-thirds of our workers.
We are not interested in a complex international structure that only large conglomerates and their lawyers can cope with.
The developing countries are not alone in needing clear and simple structures that will, in future, bring willingness to perform, the consequent access to prosperity and, finally, peace.
Here too, we need to distinguish between equity based on distribution and that based upon what people contribute, and we should keep both these aspects in mind.
Opening up our markets does, though, bring problems with it, for we must remain capable of competing internationally in the future.
It is for this reason that Parliament must deal with this topic not merely in general terms; instead, this parliamentary assembly should, in future, put the emphasis on Europe.
