.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you are probably familiar with the traditional English appellations ‘ruby’, ‘vintage’, ‘tawny’ and ‘late bottled’, which, at Community level, are protected terms when applied to fortified quality wines produced in Portugal.
To put it another way, these traditional appellations may be freely used with reference to other quality wines.
In order, though, to be allowed to use these appellations, which are traditional in Portugal, a third country must comply with certain requirements and meet the following conditions:
Firstly, the appellation must be specific, in other words, it must be recognised as a label of quality.
Secondly, the appellation must be characteristic or enjoy a certain reputation, that is to say, the average consumer must be able to recognise it as distinguishing between one wine and another.
Thirdly, the appellation must be traditionally used within the territory of the third country in question.
Fourthly, the rules laid down by the third country must not mislead the European consumer in the event of the wine from the third country appearing on a market within the European Community.
The fifth condition is that the official language of the third country must be English, which it is in the case of South Africa, Australia and the USA.
Where English is not the official language of the country in question, its use must be provided for in legislation and English must have been used for this traditional appellation for at least 25 years without interruption.
As English is not the official language in such third countries as Argentina, Chile or Brazil, and the laws of these countries contain no such provision, these countries cannot use the traditional appellations on the EC market.
In order to be allowed to use a traditional appellation in the EC, a third country must submit a dossier to the Commission, which will permit its use only if the various conditions I have enumerated are complied with.
Consultation of the Member States is guaranteed by the involvement of the Management Committee in this procedure.
Amending the Labelling Regulation will have no adverse effects on trade, as the traditional appellations for fortified wines are limited, whereas third countries generally export ordinary or unfortified wines.
