– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are analysing and describing the final steps on the road to the peaceful and comprehensive reordering of our continent.
Never before in the course of history has a new order been achieved without war or the use of force.
This development is thrown into particularly stark relief when we consider the road taken by those states that have been able to overcome what was called ‘actually-existing socialism’ and to find their way to freedom and democracy.
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania deserve particular credit for having been able, along the road to freedom, to regain their independence as states.
Speaking personally, I am grateful to the people, parliament and government of Latvia, who, with the European Union’s support, have created the conditions for solving an extremely complex problem, that being the progressive integration of a large Russian-speaking minority.
When one bears in mind that the country’s ethnic makeup is the result, more than anything else, of decades of occupation, it was not self-evident that this would happen, nor was it so in view of constant misunderstandings and suppositions on the part of, among others, the Russian Duma.
At this point, I want to extend thanks to Mr Brok, who, this morning, gave voice to clear expectation of a change in the Russian position.
Like Estonia, Latvia has set itself a task with, in future, a European dimension.
I am convinced that the Russian-speaking minority will be successfully integrated into Latvian society, but that will depend on these citizens giving unmistakeable demonstrations of their loyalty to the Latvian state.
It is also dependent upon their unconditional acceptance of the values and principles of the European Union.
Future stronger and more extensive cooperation with Russia will depend, above all, on Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania putting down deep roots in the European Union.
This cooperation is a strategic challenge for the European Union as a whole and the new Member States will have an indispensable contribution to make to it.
