– Mr President, what I basically want to say is that I think there is no justification for the European Parliament having no right of codecision in nuclear matters.
That decisions should be taken about support measures for a source of energy that in any case gets preferential treatment without the approval of the representatives of the European people is contrary to every democratic principle.
In the final analysis, this is about nothing more or less than European taxpayers’ money.
Any increase in Euratom’s credit limit should be firmly rejected.
The transaction limit has not yet been reached, so there is not even any need for the increase.
Safety improvements and decommissioning measures can and must be funded from the money available.
Euratom loans are fundamentally inconsistent with the directive on the internal market in energy and put other energy sources at a disadvantage.
As I see it, the directive on nuclear plant provides for nothing other than the control of the controllers, but it does not, unfortunately, put in place the uniformly rigorous, transparent and legally binding norms in the field of nuclear safety that Parliament has been demanding for years.
If further hindrances to free competition in the energy market are to be avoided, the funds for decommissioning and waste disposal must be administered transparently and in strict and invariable separation from each other, and must be subject to monitoring by an independent authority.
The way the rules are applied in France and Germany, with reserves used for quite different purposes, is a threat to free competition in the energy sector.
What can be said, in general terms, about the storage of radioactive waste is that the mere fact that there is no sure solution to how to dispose of nuclear waste shows how irresponsible it is to build new nuclear power stations.
It also beggars belief that certain countries are able to get rid of waste that gives off radiation by exporting it to – of all places – those third countries that are not so fussy about nuclear safety.
