Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, in the third report on economic and social cohesion, the right path has been chosen, leading to a reformed European cohesion policy with a new architecture and targeted interventions.
The fact that 78% of the financial resources for the reduction of disparities and the improvement of competitiveness factors have been earmarked for the least advanced regions shows that this is a move in the right direction – away from the scattergun approach to support funding towards the targeted use of resources.
Equally right is the decision to accord equal treatment to the regions that are subject to the statistical effect in the framework of the new convergence objective.
We particularly welcome this proposal, provided that it also guarantees adequate funding as envisaged in the communication from the Commission for the period after 2006.
For the sake of fair treatment of the areas subject to the statistical effect in relation to the traditional Objective 1 regions, there must be no further budget cuts or dilution of support.
I therefore wish to refer at this point to last September’s parliamentary resolution based on the Mastorakis report.
The resolution not only emphasised the need to pay special attention to the level of support given to those regions suffering from the statistical effects of enlargement but also stressed that the Commission should focus the same attention on the administration of aid to these regions.
Parliament voted by a large majority in favour of aid under Article 87(3)(a) of the EC Treaty, and that should be taken into account.
We therefore expect the Directorate-General for Competition, even before presenting the drafts for the regulation on the structural funds, to present its proposal for guidelines on regionally targeted aid, which should take due account of the parliamentary vote, for we must beware of narrowly focusing aid and support measures on the acceding countries, which would ultimately subsidise tax dumping in those countries and would only lead to job losses in the existing EU Member States as companies moved their production facilities from the West to the new Member States in the East.
It would be unacceptable to invest European resources if a one-sided aid regime meant that the only return was the relocation of existing jobs.
