. – Mr President, please allow me, on behalf of the committee, to comment on a report which we have now unanimously accepted, because this has to do with an extension to the Lamfalussy procedure.
What this means is that the legislative rights of the European Parliament will not be reduced without a provision in the European Constitution, so far only in Article 35 of the draft.
What is at issue is that, if we delegate legislation to expert committees and the executive, we should at all times retain the right of review, so that, in the context of institutional balance, we are treated in exactly the same way as the Council.
This has led to major problems on the issue of legislation on securities, but we have seen that this House has been able to remain in control of the legislative process, retain sovereignty of definition and draw a clear line between technical and political problems, so that the European Parliament, elected by the people, and therefore sovereign, has in fact also remained a co-legislator.
What is now at issue is its extension to the banking and insurance sector.
Here, the institutions, the legislative participants of the European Council and the Commission with their right of proposal, have given us an assurance that they will respect the rights of the European Parliament as a participant in the legislative process, and they are now also both issuing a declaration to that effect, so that no privileged treatment of the other legislator arises.
We are prepared to adopt this procedure because legislation is becoming more and more complex, as will also be apparent in the area of telecommunications, but we cannot delegate sovereignty of definition and the political determination of legislation to experts or to the executive.
Having received these guarantees from the Commission and the Council we will now proceed to vote on my report, which permits the expansion, but which at the same time makes it clear that the Parliament remains the legislator in the codecision process.
That was not established with this degree of clarity prior to the Convention draft, but now we have here an agreement between the institutions, and I see this as a major step forward for this European Parliament.
