Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I note that there is still a great need for discussion and we will indeed continue with it in the next parliamentary term.
Let me begin by expressing my best wishes and thanks to the rapporteur.
He really had his hands full with one of the most difficult and important reports in this parliamentary term, and he has done an outstanding job of it.
Some important comments have already been made.
I would like to emphasise once again that it is a good thing that we have now formulated a uniform methodology.
In this way, we can in future get rid of the mosaic of different toll systems with markedly varying charges.
It is also extremely important for us that it has been possible to apply the full cost principle and to include infrastructure older than 15 years.
There is, of course, another point that is close to my heart.
The purpose of the Directive is not only to generate financial resources for the infrastructure, important though that indeed is.
The purpose of the Directive is also to contribute to the control and management of transport, above all through levying appropriate charges.
We will do this on the one hand through the differentiation of the toll and on the other through the possibility of cross-finance.
In the differentiation of the toll, we will be able for the first time to allow for external costs such as ground contamination, blockage and noise costs.
This represents a first step towards the comprehensive internalisation of the environmental costs, a result not to be underestimated.
My group also endorses Amendment No 55, which deals with a further differentiation in these areas.
As regards the increase of the toll for the purpose of cross-finance, the rapporteur has indeed proposed an excellent compromise.
It is right that we have expanded the definition of the sensitive areas – something about which I absolutely do not agree with Mr Jarzembowski – so that the conurbations are also included in them, because that is where the most serious noise and emission problems occur.
We have certainly not come up with the best solution, and it would be a pity if we now only get as far as the first reading.
I look forward to the further discussion in the next parliamentary term and to future debates on the subject.
