– Mr President, it would of course make for enormous fun if I were now to talk about the dispute among the Conservatives, but, as Mr Bradbourn has submitted a good report, I shall refrain from doing so.
I think we should start by stressing what a fascinating European transport project the trans-European networks are.
Jobs are at stake, as is the transport of goods, and this is also of course about how this can be done without damaging the environment.
The Commission proposal is very consistent, in that it makes clear Europe’s desire to change over to environmentally-friendly modes of transport and to water-based ones.
With the motorways of the sea, we are breaking new ground, and European transport policy can hold its head up there.
It has to be said, though, that railway projects and waterways have effects in terms of environmental policy, and so, as part of the trans-European networks, there is a need for strategic environmental assessment.
If codecision means anything at all, it means that there have to be changes in the way specific projects are developed.
If there are plans for motorways of the sea between the North Sea and the Baltic – and I think they would be a good thing – whilst the canal between the North Sea and the Baltic, which would cut the journey significantly, is forgotten, then that is not on; it would be absurd.
For that reason, there is a need for improvements here.
I think we need to tell the Council that we, in this Parliament, have had experience of the development of the trans-European networks; let me just mention the Christophersen Group or the Essen projects.
That is why it cannot be surprising that this House should attach importance to the realisation – and hence also the funding – of the trans-European networks and the priority projects being subject to strict controls and rigorous monitoring.
That I see as one of our tasks as a parliament.
If the Council wants solutions – and I think it capable of getting them – then fair compromises are needed, and they have to be agreed by us together; the Council cannot simply announce a done deal.
If it makes good use of the opportunity, we can achieve the right results.
