Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the constitution, let me say that I support every sentence of the speeches made by Mr Voggenhuber and Mr Brok.
Those who seek to retreat from the draft produced by the Convention are snubbing their own representatives and showing contempt for the members of the national parliaments and hence the people of their own countries.
A total of 84 out of the 105 members of the Convention were representatives of the national parliaments and of the Heads of Government: this demonstrates anew how closely the Member States are involved in the consultation and decision-making processes of the European Union.
We want this constitution, we need it, and we demand that an agreement be reached before the first of May.
Let me move on to the second point, Lisbon, and say that the Lisbon strategy is the programme for the implementation of the European model of an environmentally and socially responsible market economy.
It is not the sole purpose of the spring summit to emphasise vigorously every year that the Lisbon Declaration is still valid, despite the lack of commitment and political will to implement its provisions.
This commitment and will are lacking among the national governments, which are equipped with the necessary instruments, but they are also lacking within the Commission, whose preparation and monitoring of the spring summit ranges from sloppy to unsatisfactory.
The summit must not degenerate into a talking shop.
It must supply straight answers to people’s questions about growth and employment as well as social cohesion.
For this reason, I demand a concrete innovation and investment pact for the promotion of competitiveness, growth and social cohesion.
This pact should prescribe exactly who should take what action and achieve which targets by when.
I expect the Commission to make this pact, along with the adopted projects, the basis of the policy that underlies its financial planning.
We need a public discussion, a public debate, on the level of compliance with this innovation and investment pact, analogous to the discussion on observance of the Stability and Growth Pact.
Failure to comply with the Stability and Growth Pact obstructs the effort to achieve the Lisbon objectives, and the non-compliant countries – France and Germany, along with Belgium – are also trailing furthest behind in the transposition of the directives on the single market.
So let us not play off the one against the other, but rather let us do what we have to do.
