– Mr President, one year ago Croatia applied for membership of the European Union with the support of all its political parties.
We should remember that Croatia could have been joining with Slovenia on 1 May were it not for the terrible years of war that it, and its neighbour Bosnia-Herzegovina endured, and the four years of Serbian occupation of one third of its territory, which resulted in the independent young democracy taking many wrong turns.
In the last five years, Croatia has made a clear decision for Europe and created the conditions for joining.
I can tell the Commissioner that it has good relations with its neighbours and regional cooperation is working.
The modernisation of its economy is under way and the economic data give cause for optimism.
I agree with you that judicial reform is lagging behind.
Administrative capacities could also be improved.
Everything cannot be done in a day, however.
Croatia is on the right road and is determined to pursue that road single-mindedly.
The new government’s objectives include the return of refugees and/or the return of property.
This year has already seen these ambitious objectives embodied in an agreement between the government and the Serb minority.
It would be nice if the European Union could at last prevail upon the Republika Srpska in Bosnia-Herzegovina to take back Croatian refugees from Croatia.
That would make housing available for the Serbs who want to return.
The lack of employment opportunities, especially in the parts of Croatia where the Serbs used to live, is a major obstacle to their return and I hope that the CARDS programme will be able to assist here, too.
Croatia is cooperating well with The Hague, to which, last year, the Croatian Government even opened its archives.
Last year, too, three Croats accused of war crimes were sentenced to long terms of imprisonment in Croatia itself.
Three weeks ago, two re-indicted generals went to The Hague voluntarily.
Europe should not judge Croatia’s cooperation with the International Court only by the case of Ante Gotovina, who is a member of the French foreign legion, is said to have a French passport, and may be lying in the sun in Cannes or Corsica, or may well be anywhere.
He is not in Croatia, otherwise he would already have been captured.
To hold Croatia hostage to the Gotovina case is unjust and fails to do justice to the progress it has undeniably made.
The Baltas report also mentions the problems concerning the border between Croatia and Slovenia.
I believe these problems are close to being resolved.
I would just like to make one comment about the unilateral announcement of the fisheries protection zone in the Adriatic.
That was foolish.
It was perfectly legal, but I think the new government is right in now seeking to put it on a sounder footing in regional cooperation with Slovenia and Italy.
The Commission’s treatment and assessment of Croatia’s progress will send a signal to the entire region.
Every politician I have met in Bosnia-Herzegovina and in Serbia is keenly awaiting the outcome.
They will then be able to see whether the tremendous efforts we are demanding of them for their nations will be really worthwhile.
