– It is perfectly fine by me, Mr President, for me to be the first to keep exactly to his allotted time.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I do not think we should play the same narrow-minded game here at every sitting, raising again the supply of goods from the West Bank to the European Union.
There is nothing wrong in discussing the matter, and last time we had a full debate about it.
If those goods were supplied by the Palestinians, they would enjoy the same European Union preferences and it is therefore pointless to always encumber such a serious question as this conflict with such banalities.
Secondly, everyone in this Parliament condemns the illegal executions that Israel is carrying out.
They are incompatible with international law and there is no need at all to discuss the matter.
It is good that we as a European Union are making that absolutely clear.
Many Americans are also saying that it is wrong.
That is why we should not always be setting France against the USA in the matter.
Henry Kissinger, too, said that quite clearly at the weekend.
What we must do, however, is something that demands rather more: we must now engage in dialogue with the Arab world.
It is of course far from reassuring that the Arab summit has recently been cancelled, that it cannot take place because it has been impossible to agree on a declaration containing the words democracy, parliament and civil society and speaking of women’s rights and democratic reform.
We must also be clearer in reminding our partners south of the Mediterranean of our fundamental convictions if we want to reach a comprehensive solution.
Those who are normally always very vociferous about these things in this House should also be vociferous in addressing the Arab world about them.
We do that with Israel.
It is a democracy.
We can expect a lot of it, and I believe we are right to do so.
We should, however, develop a broader perspective on the Middle East.
That also requires a dialogue with the Arab world about our fundamental principles.
Otherwise, we will never find a solution.
