– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the great responsibility of deciding who is to be the President of the European Commission.
Our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, welcomes the unanimous proposal by the Council that José Manuel Durão Barroso be appointed President of the European Commission.
Our group also welcomes the Council’s decision, also unanimous, to re-appoint Javier Solana to the position of High Representative, in which position he has done good work, and, in two and a half years, by which time it is to be hoped that the Constitution will have entered into force, to make him the European Union’s Minister for Foreign Affairs.
He will then need our support and our trust, and we welcome this decision too.
Those of us who have had the privilege of working with José Manuel Durão Barroso in the past – and I am one of them – can say unequivocally that he possesses the qualifications for the task of President of the European Commission.
Even if you have not yet come to this conclusion, I have to tell you for my own part that that way he presented himself to the groups – all of them – yesterday and this morning here in the European Parliament, very definitely convinced me that Mr Barroso is the right person and suited to the office of President of the European Commission.
Nor have I ever heard anyone in this Chamber question his suitability as a person.
He knows what he is talking about, he is competent, and he can also communicate his convictions, something that is important to the European Union.
I have also been impressed by his desire for close cooperation with Parliament, and what our expression of confidence in him today signifies is that, once he has taken up office we will follow him critically – but, of course, in a positive way – but we in this House will exercise control over the Commission.
The candidate has presented himself as a bridge-builder and as an honest broker, thus demonstrating his desire to help achieve consensus.
This European continent is so complex that neither one side nor the other can take decisions alone, rule alone, or cause its will to prevail.
Europe has a future only if we, together, take the road of consensus and compromise.
That is what José Manuel Durão Barroso is willing to do, and that is another reason why we in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats are of one mind in believing that we should entrust him with the task and the responsibility that go with the office of President of the European Commission.
