.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, José Manuel Durão Barroso was elected on 22 July, by a large majority, as the next President of the European Commission, and today he has taken the initiative.
In doing so, he has shown that he possesses the strength to be a leader.
And what we expect of the Presidency of José Manuel Durão Barroso
is a strong European Commission.
The President of the Commission has said that he has no proposal to make today, and that he needs more time.
Mr President of the Commission, let me tell you, on behalf of our Group, that of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, that our support for you has never wavered over the past few weeks, and you can be sure that we will continue to support you in the difficult days and weeks now, so that there will eventually be a strong Commission under your decisive leadership.
Today’s applause showed that your proposal enjoys wide support.
We would have preferred to see a vote in favour of your team today – that I will not deny – but politics is a process.
I hope that it is apparent to all in the European Union that this House possesses influence and power, and the European Union is undergoing a process of parliamentarisation.
Today is for that reason a significant day in the history of the European Parliament.
Our group has always had the strategic objective of having a strong Commission presided over by you, and of not isolating one single member of your team.
Instead, we must take note of the overall results of the hearings and draw conclusions from them.
It will be your task to join, on this basis, with all interested parties and with the Council in coming to the right decisions.
We also, in order that you may not be the tool of governments, must see to it that the future President of the Commission can have the last word and reject candidates put forward to him.
This leads our group to believe that we do not need a decision today.
It is now for us in this House to discharge our responsibilities.
In difficult times, when, on Friday, the Constitutional Treaty is to be signed in Rome, with us affirming our belief in our continent’s future, we want a strong European Parliament, a strong Commission and a Council of Ministers that works well with both institutions.
Believing as we do that Europe has a future, we now wish you, Mr President-designate of the European Commission, much success in presenting your team, to which we hope we will be able to give a great deal of support and a vote of approval.
You have our support as we go this way together.
