Mr President, Commissioner Schreyer has done a good job, and she well deserves the respect of this House.
I think we would be able to do another five years’ worth of work together, were it not for the reshuffling of the Commission’s membership, something that I very much regret.
You have left us a little legacy in the form of your speech on the scope and structure of the future Budget.
In essence I agree with you, and I am very grateful for the way in which you contradicted your own country’s government’s ideas about a shrinking budget.
If new policies are moved to the European level, money for them cannot be refused.
You said – and here I must be cautious – that the agricultural budget is substantial.
It is, but we must resist the tendency to use this Budget as a quarry for the new tasks that are to come.
What we want is a change of direction, and you talked about the Lisbon targets and economic development.
I see rural areas as part of this too.
You talk about research, education and innovation; they are needed in rural areas too.
Let me remind you that, when the EU was enlarged, a proposal of this House’s Committee on Agriculture was adopted to grant the funds collected for the pro-hectare bonuses as structural aid for rural areas.
Nothing has been done about that, and I think we will have a repeat of this argument when, in future, Turkey’s accession is on the agenda.
It is important that we invest in our own rural areas, where money gains added value, and the added value should remain in those countries.
It might be said that this often makes more sense than investing in certain major industrial projects.
I believe that we must – and will – take account of this in the structure of budgets in medium-term financial planning.
I hope that the House agrees with me in this.
It is unfortunate that our work together is coming to an end.
As a result of the redeployment of the mandatory funds, we have rather more responsibility for the agricultural budget.
I hope that we can bring about change in line with what Parliament wants.
Many thanks for your efforts, Commissioner Schreyer.
