Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to add my congratulations to Mr Eurlings on his report.
It is no easy task.
I used to be the rapporteur on Turkey too, but of course that role has now become even more difficult.
The European Union would be making a grave error if, after many years of promises to Turkey, it were now to turn round suddenly and say no at a time when Turkey is taking its mission seriously.
We have helped Turkey a great deal in the past few months and years, and we shall have to continue that assistance.
Nevertheless, let me say that the crucial question, in my view, is this: will Turkish membership make Europe stronger or weaker?
We should say quite openly and in all honesty that what is at stake here is the Europe we as Members of Parliament must fight to achieve.
If, as Mr Schulz said today, Turkey reforms itself, if it changes its position on human rights, on Cyprus, on the border issue, on regional cooperation – if that Turkey becomes a member of the European Union, it will make Europe stronger.
It is quite interesting, by the way, to observe how the initial American euphoria which greeted the recommendation that Turkey should indeed become part of the Union has waned somewhat, because the United States of America is now no longer certain whether it really wants to see the European Union strengthened in this way by the addition of an independent Turkey that thinks and acts for itself; be that as it may, if Turkey does accede to the European Union, it will have to shed some of its nationalism.
I am very much in favour of backing the report and also of launching the negotiations.
We must, however, tell Turkey that it will be a long and difficult path.
Turkey has made enormous strides over the past two to three years.
I am certainly in a position to judge that, and I congratulate Turkey on it, but it will take many years before Europe can rest assured that a new Turkey, a different Turkey, is joining the European Union.
