Has Europe failed as an industrial location?
In order to save EUR 500 million, the American General Motors group is seeking to cut up to 12 000 jobs in the EU.
Our motor industry is a key industry; two million people work in it, with ten million in firms supplying it.
If it is now being manoeuvred into a crisis, the only thing I want to point out is that in Germany, since 1990, a hundred thousand new jobs have been created in this sector – or has Germany failed as an industrial location?
At Opel, in Rüsselsheim, 4 500 jobs are to be cut back.
The people affected live in my electoral district, and I have met them.
Fear is in the air.
After all, they have worked for years already, helping to reduce the costs of the Olympia model.
Now that negotiations are in progress about shorter working times and wage renunciations, about doing away with night shifts and reductions in staffing levels, the consequences for the firm’s management have to be discussed.
At Adam Opel AG, there have been six chairmen of the board in five years, trends have been missed, and ranges that are insufficiently innovative or attractive have failed to attract customers, quality has been sacrificed for the sake of short-term cost reduction, thus gambling with the firm’s good reputation, and these things amount to serious errors on the part of the management.
Now that the attempt is being made to use the restructuring of the motor industry as a pretext for making co-determination an empty concept, that is what I call provocation.
Workers’ participation has, particularly when times are hard, resulted in consensus, has secured industrial peace and has always been to the benefit of both sides.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats can only hope that the management and the workers’ representatives can get together and hammer out an agreement on their future in Europe.
In my experience, workers are always willing to accept austerity measures if these keep their jobs safe in the long term.
