.
Mr President, Mrs Gill, ladies and gentlemen, the report that has now been presented deals with practical implementation of Article 8 of the EU’s Charter of Fundamental Rights, which covers the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data, which has been yet another of the European Union’s successes in recent years.
The role of European Data Protection Supervisor was established as long ago as 1997 by the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Protection of fundamental rights in the EU, including the protection of personal data, was advanced in particular by the adoption of the Charter of Fundamental Rights in 2000.
On 22 December 2003, the European Parliament and the Council agreed to the appointment of the European Data Protection Supervisor, which became effective on 17 January 2004.
The European Data Protection Supervisor has the task of ensuring the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data through the Community institutions and bodies established by this Treaty or on the basis of it.
This is the third time in this year that this new supervisory body has been the subject of an amending budget.
On 9 May, your House adopted the Second Amending Budget, which allocated the Data Protection Supervisor the sum of EUR 1.272 million and 15 posts in the 2004 Budget.
The organisation plan takes into account the Fourth Amending Budget relating to the introduction of the new Staff Regulations for officials and other servants.
Mrs Gill’s report proposes that the draft Ninth Amending Budget be adopted without amendment.
The amending estimates for 2004 are based on assumed expenditure of EUR 670 279 and assumed income of EUR 172 443.
Section VIII, Part B for the 2004 Budget year amounts to EUR 1.9 million in total and provides for the conversion of three permanent posts into temporary ones, with no change in the number of staff employed, as approved in this year’s Second Amending Budget.
To the rapporteur, I extend my very warm thanks for the support given to this draft, for the report itself, and for Parliament’s support in this area.
