Mr President, let me promptly ask Mr Trichet a question to which he does not have to give me an answer, although I would be interested to know how he feels about it.
How, Mr Trichet, did you feel this morning when you read in the the damning assessment of the Lisbon strategy by Mr Prodi, who is still President of the Commission and may perhaps continue to be such for a little longer?
Did the question present itself to you, too, as to what we in Europe have done wrong?
Might it not have something to do with the lamentable fact that we in Europe, represented by spokesmen, some of whom we have already been able to hear here today, have got ourselves stuck in an ideological fight to the death about what the European Central Bank’s primary purpose is meant to be, rather than taking a more pragmatic approach?
I would just ask my conservative friend Mr Lauk to re-read to himself the speech he has just delivered, this time with reference to American conditions; it would then, probably, become clear – even to him – that price stability and economic growth are always something of which a central bank must not lose sight if its actions are to be effective.
The same is of course true of the other crucial question about inflation that you, the new President, must ask yourself.
It was apparent from your speech that there are certain areas in which we appear already to be moving back from deflation towards inflation.
What the Greek Government has pulled off, with the more or less active collaboration, or in any case, negligence, of Eurostat, could perhaps become a problem in other countries.
So I really do ask you, in the interests of all those in the euro zone who believe in the euro – and, being an Austrian, I include myself – to be much more critical, and much more vigilant, than your predecessor.
If I may mention a third area that I am keen to bring to your attention, I think we have, both in your own field and in the collection of data, really serious problems with transparency.
I share the view that more transparency would be a good thing.
The President allocated me two minutes and thirty seconds, and I would like to make full use of them.
