.
The contribution made by the Commission under the Structural Funds to the development of the northern regions of Greece consists not only in the implementation of operative programmes in individual sectors, but also in the running of the INTERREG programmes within the framework of Community initiatives.
These programmes provide for the funding of measures to promote cross-border, transnational and transregional cooperation in the regions of EU Member States.
The European Union provides cofinancing for structural policy measures in the Greek regions under the third Community Support Framework for Greece, which covers the period from 2000 to 2006, and programmes have been agreed for the regions of Western, Central and Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the aim of which is to promote development and structural adjustment.
A planned total of EUR 2.7 billion in public funding is to be allocated to measures in the three regions in question, with EUR 2 billion, or 75%, being provided under the Structural Funds.
Although extremely good progress has been made with measures to improve local infrastructure, delays have unfortunately been experienced with measures to improve the performance of the local economy and the labour market and with those to promote use of human potential, due to the difficulty of implementing these measures.
In many cases, the actual implementation of these extremely complex and ambitious programmes remains too demanding a task for the authorities responsible.
In addition to these sources of funding, the above-mentioned regions also receive significant amounts of funding via the operative programmes implemented throughout the country under the Community Support Framework for Greece, and over 65% of Structural Funds earmarked for Greece flow through these horizontal programmes.
The northern regions are also involved in a number of cross-border programmes, which include firstly the EUR 46.6 million INTERREG programme for Greece and Turkey, which was approved in late 2003, although no measures have yet been implemented under it.
The second of these programmes is the cross-border INTERREG/PHARE programme for Greece and Bulgaria, for which EUR 254 million have been earmarked.
A large number of projects have begun under this programme, including measures in the field of transport infrastructure.
Thirdly, the northern regions are involved in INTERREG/CARDS for Greece and Albania, as well as INTERREG/CARDS for Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
EUR 126 million are earmarked for the programme with Albania, as well as EUR 103 million for that with the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, and several programmes are underway, including those relating to economic development and employment.
The INTERREG/CARDS programmes are likely to be converted shortly into Neighbourhood Programmes in order to promote and strengthen cooperation between Greece and Albania and between Greece and the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia.
Pre-accession assistance for Turkey will begin with the 2004 programme, and includes a component for cross-border cooperation between Turkey and Greece, with annual funding of around EUR 2 million at present.
The project’s aim is to improve cross-border cooperation between Greece and Turkey at a local level and to support the development of the economic potential of border regions.
It is expected that funding for these measures will be increased in future years.
One of the focuses of the PHARE programme for cross-border cooperation between Bulgaria and Greece, which currently receives EUR 20 million in funding annually, has been infrastructure, and in particular the rehabilitation of regional roads with access to the two existing border crossings.
There are also plans for the cofinancing of three new border crossings with approach roads, of which one is nearing completion.
To date over two thirds of programme funds have been allocated to this priority.
Environmental issues are second on the list of priorities, and after Bulgaria and Romania join the EU cross-border cooperation between Greece and Bulgaria will be promoted under INTERREG on both sides of the border.
