Ladies and gentlemen, much has already been said on the strategy adopted this year by this House with regard to the 2005 Budget.
It has also been said that the decentralised agencies play an important role for us in negotiations with the Council.
Once again, I should like to make it very clear to everyone that we are not opposed to the agencies; indeed quite the opposite is true, as we believe that most of them make an outstanding contribution to our common European concern.
Yet we must be aware of the fact that in recent years the rate at which agencies are established has accelerated considerably.
Whereas in 1990 there were only three agencies, in 1995 six and in 2000 seven, and there will be 23 as soon as 2005.
We have always supported the Commission’s intention to concentrate on its core competencies and transfer certain areas to the agencies, but we want this to occur in a focused manner and under extremely strict political and budgetary control.
The Council is always in favour of creating new agencies, and since the Member States have been represented on agencies’ management boards this has been particularly true, above all in the case of agencies which implement European legislation.
In the preliminary draft budget for 2005 EUR 281 303 million is earmarked for agencies, EUR 53.7 million more than in the 2004 financial year.
We must, however, bear in mind that all but four agencies are funded under Heading 3, internal policies, where very little money remains.
We are therefore left with only two options; either we provide the funding earmarked for the agencies without complaint, and cut funding in other priority budget lines in order to find the money to do so; or we negotiate with the Council in order to increase funding under Heading 3 by the missing EUR 54 million.
The latter is exactly what we want to happen.
I should now like to address Mrs Schreyer once again, and to thank her, as have all the previous speakers.
All the men who have spoken before this House know how to pay compliments much better than I am able to, yet, as you are aware, my thanks are sincere, as Mrs Schreyer has persuaded her fellow Commissioners to put forward proposals which are genuinely forward-looking.
In fact, they are so forward-looking that I do not believe that it will be possible to implement them during my time as a Member of this House.
You are aware of the proposals to which I am referring, which include the general correction mechanism and the own resources report, with the ‘window to the future’ of an income system intended to undergo successive amendments.
This was an extremely courageous feat, and one which none of your predecessors achieved, in any case not the two men who were your immediate predecessors.
I would like to offer you my heartfelt thanks for this.
Mrs Schreyer, women can do it!
