Mr President, Commissioner, it has already been said that the European Union has set itself the goal of becoming the world’s most economically competitive region by 2010.
This, however, presupposes the elimination of the far-reaching differences between the Member States and within regions in the Member States.
If the Gothenburg Strategy is to be taken seriously, this involves not merely economic issues, but also the attainment of a balanced relationship between economic development, social development and environmental development, whilst adhering to the principle of equality.
After all, the European Union is not merely a project to create an internal market, but also a project based on solidarity!
I therefore find it entirely incomprehensible that despite the increased number of tasks incumbent upon the enlarged European Union, a fact referred to in many wise speeches by all kinds of government representatives, funding is now to be limited to 1% of gross domestic product, with the budget at an even lower level.
This means that there is no chance at all of us ever putting this idea into practice.
I should therefore also like to say to the Council that this kind of behaviour is opportunistic.
You make grand proclamations, but when it comes to actually implementing these policies, you backtrack.
This is in no way acceptable!
Furthermore, if we now agree to these proposals, we will already have prejudiced the outcome of the 2007-2013 Budget debate.
Once we have chosen to go down this road, it is unlikely that we will ever have an opportunity to say that enough is enough, and that we no longer wish to go along with such a policy.
We must therefore respond to this Council proposal with a categorical ‘no’, in order to provide ourselves with the opportunity to achieve a sensible relationship between the Member States with regard to development in various policy areas.
Thought must be given to what we want to achieve and which policies we wish to implement before money is made available, rather than the other way round.
