Madam President, there is widespread frustration and bafflement in Europe at the failure of the Middle East peace process to make any headway, even though we all think we know what the result of that process should be: two states and the territorial disputes sorted out amicably.
To that end we demand of Israel that no more settlements be established, that the existing ones should not be extended, and that the West Bank wall should not be taken as a political fact when shaping the borders of the future.
When I see, though, that this hideous edifice has saved human lives by substantially reducing the number of suicide bombings, I cannot really criticise Israel for building it, but I can criticise it for the fact that the wall does not follow the recognised border.
No doubt, alas, the wall must remain in place until such time as the Palestinian Autonomous Authority itself becomes willing to use its own police and security forces to arrest those who carry out these attacks.
It is Mr Arafat who is standing in the way of this sort of effective reorganisation.
Gaza is another point at issue.
I find it inexplicable that more Kassam rockets should be fired at Israel even after it had announced, without conditions, its military and civil withdrawal.
It is evident that certain Palestinian elements are almost afraid of the prospect of an Israeli withdrawal, for, in that event, Palestinians in Gaza would at last have to get themselves organised and get stuck into rebuilding the city and its surroundings.
So far, Israel has served as a reason why, with the struggle against the occupation, no real progress was made with these necessary measures.
Its withdrawal should also open up a way back to implementing the road map, which is what the quartet demanded on 22 September.
When I see though, the way in which, in this little piece of land in Gaza, Palestinian police and security forces in their thousands are evidently incapable of preventing these Kassam rockets from being launched, I really do start to suspect that Israel is being provoked into staying put in Gaza.
We must not allow this attempt to succeed, for there are, in Israel too, people who do not want withdrawal from Gaza, and these elements should not be lent support.
It is in the interests of all of us that we should start as soon as possible on putting the road map into practice.
All parties have signed up to it and must do what they have undertaken to do.
