.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I thank you for this lively debate.
While it would be worthwhile to consider many of the points made, I would like to highlight two of them, one being the connection between the European Budget, agricultural expenditure and poverty – including among women – in the developing world.
The statement has been made that something like one half of the Budget would help to further aggravate the poverty of women in the developing world.
I cannot allow that assertion to go unchallenged.
You made, of course, specific reference to agricultural subsidies, at a time when the Commission, in negotiations within the World Trade Organisation, has made progress in reducing agricultural and export subsidies and opening up greater opportunities to the countries of the developing world.
Secondly, agricultural expenditure does of course play an essential part in preventing poverty in rural areas and in the agricultural sector.
We are all aware of how poverty, rural areas and women are interlinked, and so our European Budget’s programmes for fostering development in rural areas are of immense importance in keeping women out of poverty.
My next point has to do with the Lisbon strategy.
You asked about broad outlines and specific proposals.
I would like to remind you that it was the Commission that devoted its efforts to formulating the objective, as part of the Lisbon strategy, of increasing the number of women in employment, and that in a relatively short time.
Then it was the Commission, too, that pointed out that it was impossible to simply set an increase in the number of women in employment as a target without giving practical attention to childcare.
Without that, the goal of getting more women into work is beyond reach, and, as a woman, I was very happy to learn that the Heads of State and Government, at a summit, had considered the issue of childcare facilities and had come up with a resolution to the effect that childcare needs to be more readily available.
The fact is, of course, that you cannot make Europe more competitive without increasing women’s opportunities for employment.
