.
Thank you, Commissioner Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen.
I, too, will gladly do my bit towards our becoming the most modern parliament in the world, even though my contribution, in the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, will be a modest one.
In considering the Budget, we set clear priorities, particularly with regard to the Lisbon agenda.
Concrete initiatives to push forward the Lisbon agenda, including in this Budget procedure, are more important than a constant succession of statements, whether by the Heads of State and Government, or sometimes by us ourselves, that cost those who make them nothing.
We still regard the internal market as being at the heart of our competition strategy, and, seeing as there has been no change in the obstacles to it, we have proposed allocating funds to the holding of another forum on the internal market in order to discuss the various minor obstacles remaining in the internal market with those who are affected by them, thus enabling us to fashion forward-looking legislative instruments to deal with them.
We in the Internal Market Committee also regard the eastward enlargement as potentially crucial in promoting growth, prosperity and employment, but we do of course also see that there are still difficulties involved in getting economies to grow together across borders.
For that reason, we are proposing a pilot project for the formation of clusters in the border regions, through which strategic alliances can be forged.
We also regard the internal market for consumers as still having considerable potential for enhancing our competitiveness and have, to this end, allocated funds for the fields of food safety and the combating of diseases in animals.
I myself would also like to extend warm thanks to Commissioner Schreyer for her cooperation.
It is a fact of life that those responsible for the Budget may make a lot of enemies and annoy a lot of people, but they also make some friends.
When it comes to the border regions, though, they have become friends, as has the rapporteur on our Budget, Mr Garriga Polledo, and for that many thanks.
