Madam President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, I would like to start by apologising for the fact that another commitment will require me to leave shortly after I have finished speaking.
There is a specific question I wanted to put to you, Mr Solana, or rather, a comment I wanted to make following on from what Commissioner Patten said.
I am in full agreement with what you plan to do in your four points.
I regard them as well balanced and right.
The only thing is, are both sides willing that we should actually be able to put these plans into effect?
I agree with Mr Gahler that security must be established, but how many security facilities has Israel destroyed over recent years?
Was there really willingness that the Palestinians, insofar as they so wished – and not all did – should really be responsible for security?
Turning to reform of the Authority, how can the Authority be reformed when the sealing of the borders is making Arafat a hero to the Palestinians?
He had been less highly regarded by the Palestinians, and that is where Israel helped him out.
As for economic support, I will vote in favour of it in this House only when I am certain, or can at least take it for granted, that what is invested in infrastructure will not again be destroyed by Israel.
This is a precondition, for the taxpayer – to whom both of you have rightly referred – cannot be expected to rebuild infrastructure only to see it destroyed.
The same is true of elections, which are necessary, and I am absolutely in favour of them.
I also discussed them with the finance minister, for whom you too have high regard, whose hope it is that new young blood will join the Palestinian Authority, but who also told me that the elections must be feasible in terms of the whole infrastructure, and, here again, it is for Israel to make them possible.
So I fully support your programme, which I regard as good, well balanced, and right, but it needs both sides if it is to be capable of being implemented, failing which it will be as vacuous as others have been.
It follows that Israel really must play a full part in it and be willing to put these things into practice.
If it does, then I am in favour of our being as critical as we can be of the Palestinian Authority and as tough as possible in our dealings with it.
