– Mr President, Mr Solana, Commissioner, you have said that this was your last speech in this House, and I think that many of us feel – as I myself do despite our many differences of opinion – that you were one of the most important and outstanding personalities in this Commission, who gave foreign policy a quite special edge, for which I would like to thank you most warmly on behalf of our group.
The occasion for today’s debate is, as is invariable in the case of matters of topical and urgent importance, an escalation of violence.
Rarely do we have good news to announce about the Middle East; on the contrary, the situation is often a very grave one.
Hamas rockets landing on Israeli towns, excessive military actions and then the attack in Taba, in Taba of all places, a place associated with so many peace agreements, peace negotiations and concepts of peace.
In Israel’s neighbour, Egypt, a new dimension of terror waged against innocent civilians, Europeans, Egyptians and Israelis, brings home to us the whole tragedy of the situation, and so I agree with what Mr Solana has had to say here today, that the road map is still the only way ahead.
Mr Sharon, the Prime Minister, spoke about this on Monday in the Knesset, and I believe that we Europeans should also insist on that; it is this position that unites the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
And the road map means a two-state solution, ultimately a Palestinian state and an Israeli state.
What must now happen in the coming weeks?
I am very grateful to Mr Solana for having, today, reminded us in very clear terms of Arafat’s responsibility; for reminding us that the Prime Minister must now be able to function independently; that the security forces, too, must be taken out of Mr Arafat’s control and made subject to an independent police authority, with all the powers needed to combat terrorism.
You then had something to say about money and economic cooperation.
In recent years, we have gained the impression that the more the situation escalated, the more money Europe gave, in order to try and bring about social stability.
It would be a good thing, though, for the police forces to be reformed and for Europe to then provide more funds for reconstruction, so that it becomes clear to the people on the ground that where peace is, there is also aid from Europe, but that it is not unconditional and not at any cost.
For that reason, our group endorses the courses of action you have outlined, and we wish you much success in carrying them out.
