Mr President, may I add my thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Novak for her excellent, rapid and, above all, pragmatic work.
My thanks are also due to the Commission for its initiative.
This is an area of our activity to which the people of Europe, especially our young people, can relate and from which they can derive many benefits.
With such initiatives we can show young people that the Community makes tangible improvements which affect their daily lives.
It is certainly a good example of the people-centred policy we need to pursue.
The document on the table is the fruit of a lengthy development process, and I should stress that it is not the final word, for the Commission has also stated clearly that the scope and potential for development must be preserved, and indeed the document itself provides for an open-ended process.
Specific initiatives in the field of education, of course, were already being launched back in the sixties and seventies.
The aim was always to enhance the quality and mobility of students and trainees without seeking to harmonise European education policies.
It goes without saying that we must accompany such measures with instruments and incentives to make cross-border education a feasible option.
Particularly for residents of territorially smaller countries with many borders, these initiatives are an important point of entry to the single European market.
The aim must therefore be to introduce further improvements, which means clearing away a significant amount of red tape and, most importantly, involving business and labour organisations and making the system easier and cheaper to manage, especially as regards documentation.
More exchanges of young trainees must be encouraged at every level, with primary importance attaching to financial support.
This is the only way for us to achieve the Lisbon objective and, in particular, to increase public satisfaction with the Community.
In conclusion, let me simply add that more than 200 000 young people have already taken part in these mobility programmes in recent years, and this is the direction in which we should seek to progress.
