Mr President, Commissioner, may I express my thanks to Mrs Novak and her predecessor, Mrs Zissener.
The Europass is a European record of achievement with which, I am glad to say, we have been able to take a small but important step forward after all the fine words about taking government to the people.
First of all, it creates transparency throughout Europe for all periods of education and training, for skills acquired in all walks of life.
Secondly, it creates credibility through the certification and recognition of occupational and extra-vocational experience, including voluntary work in the realms of social welfare, culture and sport as well as the acquisition of various linguistic skills.
Thirdly, it creates efficiency, because it fosters understanding and recognition of qualifications and skills for an ever-increasing number of young and not-so-young people.
More than ever before, we need to take government closer to the people, and we need fewer eulogies to a technocratic and bureaucratic virtual Europe.
We need tangible instruments, of which the Europass is a prime example.
It is a resource for people’s everyday lives.
It lets people experience Europe at first hand on a daily basis, wherever they are.
All measures in the field of education policy, such as Comenius, Erasmus, Grundtvig, e-learning, the mutual recognition of diplomas and now the Europass, add value to Europe by lending it a human dimension.
This injection of soul into Europe, which puts individuals at the heart of the debate and makes them the focus of decisions affecting their everyday lives, is important.
The Europass is a key element, not only in terms of the comparability and recognition of professional achievements but more especially because it includes voluntary social and civic involvement in the catalogue of acquired skills.
I should like to congratulate the Commission and all of us here for having created this really good mechanism in such a short time – less than a year – and I very much hope that, along with the other improvements envisaged by Commissioner Figeľ, we shall have a good platform from which to launch the Europass next year.
I wish him, and hence our young people too, every success.
