Mr President, over the last few days we in this House have seen exciting things happening.
I think that all of us have learned things.
We have learned that getting to grips with the political substance of a Commission is quite a business.
We learned that from your election, Mr Barroso, when you gained a majority, so that you are the intended future President of the Commission.
We then had to discuss the competence of the proposed Commissioners.
When you introduced yourself to us, you told us that you were independent, that you wanted to be independent, no matter what was said by Mr Schroeder, Mr Blair or anyone else, that the Commission would be your work rather than the Council’s.
Wonderful, do it, do it!
What that means is that you, if someone proposed by a Member State is not competent, will, with our support, reject the proposal rather than simply accept it.
With us, you will be strong enough to do that; we will be right behind you.
And that has nothing to do with ideology.
As I see it, my friends, competent people have been proposed for the Commission, who do not share my political outlook.
We want strong and competent Commissioners who will be more than the mere lapdogs of this or that European government.
We say that loud and clear.
That, Mr President, is why we are telling you, in plain language, to read very carefully the resolution that this House proposed, the one that effectively led to your withdrawal.
That resolution contains the arguments on the basis of which we will judge the next proposals.
It is competence and conflicts of interest that are at issue.
Do not come back here proposing tainted people as Commissioners, or you will end up with your back to the wall again.
Do not propose people who go against what your Commission has it in mind to do.
We will therefore be quite frank in saying that we regard your withdrawal as a brave step, as a sign that you have seen sense.
You have realised that there is no possibility of winning a majority with only one part of this House behind you.
