. – Mr President, I too wish to thank the Commissioner for having, over recent years, supported the Committee on Women’s Rights in its endeavour to advance gender budgeting.
As our committee does not have that many Budget lines to administer, this horizontal policy is of particular importance to us.
I have to say, however, that I agree with Mr Prodi’s assessment that successes have not been conclusive everywhere.
As with the Lisbon strategy, we have given gender budgeting and gender mainstreaming a fixed place in the Structural Funds, but, at the end of the day, only 6% goes to gender-centred projects.
Hence it has been our great concern that the amendments should be used to achieve progress in this area by laying down minimum margins in the major programmes, in MEDA, in the major cooperation programmes, including those with other countries, in aid for Afghanistan and for Iraq.
It is regrettable that the Committee on Budgets was unwilling to go down this road; it stated that part of these sums was to be used for gender-centred projects, but actually lacked the courage for this.
If we really want change, minimum rates must be laid down.
I think more debate on this is called for, and we need to muster the courage to do this.
Where the Committee on Women’s Rights does have competences is in the field of gender mainstreaming under the Framework Programme, but it is again and again becoming apparent to us that we lack reliable data on how EU funds are spent on women and on men.
It is therefore very important that we should get the gender institute started.
Although the Council has voted in favour of the idea, the whole thing is meant to be run in a budget-neutral way, in other words, it is not allowed to cost anything, and women are allowed to do as they like if it does not.
That is not acceptable, so what we want is to introduce at least a token entry for the gender institute.
I would also like to mention a project from the DAPHNE programme, that being the European Year against Violence against Women.
Many approaches have been made to the Commission seeking its support for this, but if you want something done, you do it yourself, so let us declare the ‘Year against Violence’!
