Mr President, Commissioner, with the Europass we have created a supplementary instrument that can help us in the pursuit of many aims, including the implementation of the Lisbon strategy, which we have been discussing extensively.
We know that this aim has slipped down the list of priorities and that we should present it in a far more progressive manner than is currently the case.
As for this Europass, although it is a ‘soft’ form of evidence of qualifications and competence with no binding force, it is still very important and helps young and mobile people on training courses who spend training periods abroad to obtain a transparent and comprehensible summarised record of their achievements, qualifications and acquired skills with more or less full comparability throughout the EU.
This, at last, is a sign of the transparency we are always invoking.
At the same time, the Europass is intended to give future employers within the European Union an overview of a young person’s experience and qualifications.
The extended collection of documents, which, as you know, comprises a curriculum vitae, a mobility pass and other papers, is a standardised supplementary instrument.
This new framework, which guarantees that new documents in the field of information technology, for example, can be incorporated into the Europass portfolio in future, is very important, because education is always full of innovations, and the Europass will have to accommodate them.
I am very grateful for this flexibility.
I should also like to refer to the value of periods spent in other countries, and I believe that the documents should not only record dates and technical details but should also include explicit and retraceable references to intercultural learning experiences and social integration.
The EU stands for openness and mobility.
It encourages and demands mobility.
For this reason, I proposed that people be issued with an introductory guide to mobility.
This proposal, unfortunately, has been watered down by the addition of the phrase ‘where appropriate’.
May I ask that issuing such a guide be deemed appropriate in very many cases, because that, to me, would be a real sign of government being taken to the people.
Moreover, I believe that the national Europass agencies should be integrated into existing agencies and that these should be developed with a view to pooling the experience, activities and networks of existing institutions.
We should also launch an information campaign.
The first of January will soon be here, and there is still a widespread lack of awareness.
There is therefore an urgent need to mobilise in the cause of mobility.
