.
This is a very complex issue, Mr Posselt.
The Commission attaches great importance to the ongoing reforms of public administration and the judiciary in both countries.
Not only must these reforms ensure that both countries are able to meet the conditions for membership, but they must also, above all, guarantee that after accession both countries are able to honour their commitments effectively as Member States.
Signs of concrete progress have recently emerged in Romania, for example the formal adoption of a strategy to accelerate reform of public administration, the 2003 strategy on reform of the judiciary and the adoption of three fundamental laws for judicial reform in June 2004.
Romania still needs to ensure, however, that these measures are implemented successfully.
A strategy was adopted in Bulgaria over a year ago on reform of the public administration, not least as a result of a great deal of pressure on my part, and in general the country is making good progress with its implementation.
I must make it clear, however, that major efforts are still required in order to make improvements to the organisation of work, to the administrative capacity necessary for implementation of the and in particular to the management structures of the Bulgarian administration.
With regard to the judiciary, Bulgaria is continuing to make progress in implementing the 2001 strategy on judicial reform, even though there have been delays in certain areas.
The Commission is closely monitoring developments in this field, and has supported these reforms by means of pre-accession assistance and close cooperation with other donors, including the Member States.
Reforms of public administration and the judiciary are among the absolute priorities to be supported in the framework of PHARE multi-annual programming for 2004-2006.
In addition, informal committees on reforms of the public administration and judiciary will be set up in order to conduct a structured dialogue with both countries on these issues and to monitor and support the extension of operative capacities in both fields.
