Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have just a few comments to make on the central issue.
The first is that, as Chairman of the Delegation for relations with Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Serbia and Montenegro (including Kosovo), I am delighted that the military mission – which is still necessary – is now in European hands and backing up the EU’s great financial and civilian commitment under the leadership of Commissioner Patten.
The second is that this changeover from SFOR to EUFOR is being welcomed in Bosnia and Herzegovina too.
It does indeed highlight how closely intertwined are Bosnia and Herzegovina’s destiny and our own.
The success of our mission – political, economic and military – is the litmus test for our foreign and security policy.
Thirdly, EUFOR’s tasks should be clearly set out.
It should not involve itself unnecessarily in states’ prosecution of their own criminals.
In these countries, the police and the justice systems have now become capable of pursuing ordinary criminals and imprisoning them.
Apprehending war criminals such as Mladic and Karadzic should also still be a matter for the remaining NATO contingent, and, in particular, for the Serbs of Republika Srpska.
Even though neither has so far demonstrated any enthusiasm for doing this, and Republika Srpska has even obstructed it, EUFOR should have other tasks to perform.
Fourthly, how will cooperation between the police mission and EUFOR be organised?
My fifth point has to do with an issue that has started to worry me in recent years, and that is whether the EUFOR troops have been advised about the problems with trafficking in women and forced prostitution.
Is there an ethical context, and where, when and by whom are offences to be punished?
Bosnia-Herzegovina is not just a transit country, but also – not least because of the international presence – a destination.
The sixth thing I want to say is that EUFOR is the right name.
Why, then, call it ALTHEA, after a mythological woman associated with blood, retaliation and vengeance, and who ends up taking her own life?
What did the person who thought up this name have in mind?
They could have done with a bit of sensitivity.
One might have expected something else in an area where we are working to counteract revenge and the settling of scores.
Moreover, EUFOR is the name by which the mission is already being welcomed on great big posters in Sarajevo, so let us leave it at that and chuck ALTHEA out with the junk where it belongs!
