– Thank you, Mr President.
You have said yourself, Mr Barroso – and it has already been stated today – that you want to be the President of a strong Commission.
There are actually a whole series of Commissioners who have shown themselves to be very strong, including in the hearings, for example those sitting in your immediate vicinity today.
And there are many Commissioners who, as you said, have the potential to be very good Commissioners once they have acquired the necessary technical knowledge.
Even though many of them hold views on politics and social policy that are not akin to our own, we are convinced that they will make suitable Commissioners, and so we have approved them.
There are a number of cases, however – and you have had to defend them today, which is already unfortunate at the start of a new Commission – that are going to cause problems in the Commission in the years to come.
Of course there is one Commissioner in particular whom we do not consider fit to head the department that he has been allocated.
It is true, as has already been said many times, that Mr Buttiglione has every right to hold these views, which we do not share.
But if he holds these views, and if he also, and repeatedly, acts in accordance with them, then he is not fit to hold the portfolio that you have allocated to him.
This must be made absolutely clear.
Mr Barroso, the problem is no longer just Mr Buttiglione.
By acting or not acting in the way you have, you yourself have made the Buttiglione case into a Barroso case.
This is regrettable and it will certainly have a significant bearing on our decision this evening.
Although you have just made a series of proposals, Mr Barroso, you are still not taking Parliament seriously, as much of what you are selling here is already in the pipeline.
You act as though you were responding with something new.
But you are not responding, you are simply taking up what already exists.
You are selling old wine in new skins.
We cannot accept this.
We will give it very careful consideration, but I do not believe that we will be able to accept Parliament’s being approached in this way because it is not a true reflection of reality.
What is more, Mr Barroso, your proposal to create a kind of sub-Commission within the Commission is already being mocked by Mr Buttiglione.
He is making fun of it and is slandering a fellow nominee Commissioner, Mr Špidla.
Is this any way to treat your proposals for the Commission itself?
You did not comment on this.
I would be glad if you were to do so.
What do you think of a member of your Commission slandering another member of the Commission, making false claims about them and mocking your proposals?
That is precisely why we cannot derive much comfort from what you have proposed today, President Barroso.
I regret to say that I wish things could have been different.
You have not convinced us.
You have not even made a serious attempt to convince us.
