– Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, rather than being offended, you should be amazed – as I am – that there are those – like Mrs Grossetête, who spoke before me – who, being unable to muster courage and a capacity for objectivity at this time, are obliged to be politically partisan.
I speak on behalf of my group and of many Members of this House when I confirm that you have indeed worked very closely and very well with this House.
The same can be said of the Vice-Presidents, Mrs de Palacio and Mr Kinnock and of all the members of this Commission.
A milestone has been reached, standards have been set, and so it shall remain.
I wonder, Mrs Grossetête, whether the Barroso Commission will adhere to these standards.
Mr Barroso has not so far demonstrated that, whereas Mr Prodi has.
Secondly, and contrary to what some Members have said, enlargement and the Mediterranean policy prove you right, and in these areas too, we will have demands to make of Mr Barroso; we will be asking whether he can pursue these to the same extent and with the same care as did the Commission under Mr Prodi.
This leads me to mention dialogue with Islam.
As President of the Commission, Mr Prodi pointed out that, if we want greater security, it is not more weapons that we need, but willingness to engage in dialogue with our neighbours as part of the neighbourhood policy, and where did that originate?
It came from the Prodi Commission.
It was a major achievement, and we must not merely say thank you for it, but also follow it through in the future.
I would have liked more in the field of employment policy and also in many other areas, but here it was not the Commission, but the Council that was, regrettably, very cautious and hesitant, as President Prodi has already pointed out.
He it was who was the first to have the courage to say, in language that was perhaps rather provocative, that the Stability Pact as it had been applied was not very intelligent.
Proposals have now been made, and I am convinced that most of us will back them, as will most of the finance ministers.
As an economist, I say that every economic rule must be applied intelligently rather than dogmatically and bureaucratically.
I am sure that Professor Prodi was also the first to recognise that.
Let me say one thing in conclusion with reference to the subject currently under debate, something of which Mr Bourlanges, who is sitting here beside me, can speak with experience.
Contrary to what journalists would have us believe, what matters is not that a man or anyone should be shot down in flames for belonging to a particular government or following a particular political line.
What we Social Democrats and the majority in this House are doing is seeking to uphold the standards that this Commission has set in fundamental rights and freedoms and in non-discrimination.
To these we want a clear response.
The question will be, in the days to come, whether the Barroso Commission is able, particularly where fundamental rights and freedoms are concerned – the catalogue of which you were very actively involved in drawing up – to uphold these standards.
The role of women needs to be promoted more, and there must be no discrimination on the grounds of gender or of sexual orientation.
These standards, set by the Prodi Commission, are what it is all about.
Mr Barroso must demonstrate his ability to maintain them.
