.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to say how happy I am that we still have the chance to see Commissioner Patten in the plenary.
I feel the same way as he does about Frank Sinatra: I keep on hearing his voice, and Commissioner Patten’s as well.
Passing on to arms exports, while I think we really can be justified in saying that the Code of Conduct has resulted in progress where arms exports are concerned, I must also say that this progress has not been enough.
We are very pleased to learn that the Presidency of the Council is conducting negotiations with a view to clarifying a number of points in the Code, and I hope that these negotiations will have a successful outcome.
I also see it as very important that these rules should cover not only sales, but also their mediation and brokerage.
It is not, however, the legal basis that is the actual problem where arms exports are concerned; the real problem lies in the different ways in which these legal bases are applied in the various countries within the European Union.
It is on this problem that we must focus our efforts — for a start, by declaring the Code to be legally binding.
If this cannot be done at Community level, there is nothing to prevent the Member States from doing it, and, indeed, a number of them already have done so.
This is the road down which we must go; whilst, on the one hand, we must aim to eventually stop treating intra-Community transfers of defence equipment as exports, this can be done only when every country in the European Community applies the rules relating to this uniformly and with rigour.
Let me now turn to the question of the embargo on China.
My group takes the view that this strategic partnership with China is what will take us into the future, and that we must seek to bring it about.
We are aware, though, that there are a few problems left outstanding, such as China’s approach to human rights, problems that have to do with Taiwan and Tibet, and so my group’s position is that the conditions are not yet in place that would allow us to lift this embargo on China.
