.
Mr President, I too would like to thank the rapporteur for the report and emphasise how important it is that relations between the European Union and India be strengthened and cooperation stepped up.
It has taken us too long to comprehend India’s significance.
For a long time, we have treated India differently from other countries in the region, China for example, and so we are glad that, to judge by the journeys undertaken recently, both the European Union and many national governments are giving greater attention to relations with it.
As many previous speakers have pointed out, India is the world’s largest democracy, with a diversity of religions, cultures and ethnicities, whilst being at the same time a rising economic power.
We would therefore be well advised, to our mutual benefit, to attach the necessary importance to that country.
I do believe, though, that honesty, honest friendship and honest relationships involve neither party sweeping problems under the carpet, but rather addressing them frankly.
Indians see one of these problems as being the issue of the import restrictions that we in the European Union still impose on India, some of which are rigid.
India is right to address this issue, and we should consider whether fair trade might not be of more help to India than development aid has been to date.
I believe that critical scrutiny is needed here.
I would, however, like to add that we very definitely see human rights as being another of these issues.
While we welcome the indications that relations between India and Pakistan are bearing fruit in the shape of a potential resolution of the conflict in Kashmir, which gives cause for rejoicing, we also demand and expressly seek the acceleration, as a matter of urgency, of nuclear disarmament across the region, for the sake of the safety of the people who live there.
As I have already indicated, one issue that must not be allowed to drop off the agenda in discussions with India is that of human rights; from the role of women to the caste system, these issues have a place in this context.
