Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to start my speech with thanks to you, Mr Trichet, and thereby emphasise that, for us in the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, your institution now stands for a stable euro – not only for low inflation, but also for adherence to the Stability and Growth Pact.
That has, in particular, become apparent in the events of recent months, in which the euro’s problem has been with the Finance ministers, and in which some of us in the European Parliament have seen with great sorrow the Commission’s failure to take a stand in the way, and with the clarity, that you have done today in this House with regard to how the Stability Pact is to be handled.
It is in fact you who guarantee the Stability Pact in the euro zone!
Here, I am referring in particular to the example of Greece, where we need Europe to exert tighter control, something that I hear said, alas, all too infrequently, even today.
I could, for example, imagine a future reversal of the burden of proof, so that the Commission and Eurostat would have to critically examine whether the figures are plausible, and, if they were not, new ones could be called for.
Otherwise they would not be regarded as having been reported.
That would be a first step, and we expect to have to debate and decide, within the life of this Parliament, whether more currencies are to be added.
Let me put this question, not only to Eurostat and the Commission, but also to the ECB: do you work on the basis that the figures presented to you are correct?
I find it intolerable that it has to date been impossible to give an answer as to whether or not the figures as submitted are accurate.
Let me just briefly turn to what you had to say about the CESR.
What is wrong with this process is that the authorities at nation state level are already presenting us with ,and that it is becoming ever more difficult for the legal system to circumvent this and arrive at redefinitions.
We ask you to see to it that these regulators do not lack a legal basis on which to act.
