Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I have six ideas to put to you.
Firstly, give back the people of Europe their confidence in a Europe of peace, freedom and justice.
What do I mean by that?
I mean that everyone should have to abide by common rules, that all must obey the Treaties, that all must implement decisions, that the Commission must avail itself more of its right of initiative and must monitor more.
The rules are sufficient, but there is a lack of political will and determination.
Words such as ‘infringement proceedings’, ‘Stability and Growth Pact’, ‘Lisbon’ and ‘Barcelona’ spring to mind.
Mr President of the Commission, I urge you to withdraw Commissioner Almunia’s proposal on the Stability and Growth Pact, which weakens the Commission and Community law.
The common rules need to be reinforced.
Secondly, do not let what you do be influenced by those who break the rules, but take initiatives to do away with unanimity in the Council, so that your success or failure is not determined by those who block progress.
Thirdly, make Europe more competitive in line with Lisbon and Barcelona, and take initiatives to remove from the internal market all barriers, blockages and distortions of competition.
We need a stronger Commission, we need more Europe, and we need more initiatives from the Commission.
Fourthly, let us not just train researchers, but also let them carry out research into things that are usable!
Fifthly, make Europe more secure and stronger on the world stage, with the common foreign and security policy, the common defence policy, a common asylum and immigration policy, and a stronger United Nations.
What we need is not for Germany to have the right of veto in the Security Council, but for the European Union to be a permanent member of it.
The sixth thing I urge is that we should make informed participants of the people of Europe.
There is not enough European consciousness in the Member States, which use a double strategy to weaken it.
Let us make it impossible to shift the blame on to the EU; this will involve you, Mr President of the Commission, putting a European information and communication strategy on the table after every summit, so that what you have achieved cannot be claimed by the nation states.
