– Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, two things have become clear to me in this debate.
Firstly, there is surely no doubt about the abilities of the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso.
Secondly, in some cases we have got so carried away that we are no longer listening and are no longer capable of reading texts in full.
We must therefore recognise that Mr Buttiglione stated that he is in favour of non-discrimination and in favour of compliance with the Charter, and that he draws a distinction between a moral code and a legal code to which I believe we could all subscribe.
I have further observed in this debate that the lack of technical knowledge that has been noted here in the case of a few Commissioners appears, in many cases, to be completely irrelevant, provided – perhaps – that they are of the right political hue.
In any case this issue has been pushed right into the background in today’s debate.
This brings me to the conclusion that there are a number of Members for whom this decision is a decision about values: political correctness instead of an attachment to values that stem from a religious conviction.
This is, I believe, a statement that it is not proper for us, as a Parliament, to make.
It is our job to judge the knowledge that these people have of their subject and not their personal religious beliefs.
I believe that this is an important and decisive point that we should keep to the forefront of our minds.
That is why I believe that we need to have a bit more tolerance and liberality, rather than being slaves to the same, fashionable opinion.
This is the point that we should keep in mind.
And in the light of the fact that the Barroso Commission is actually giving ground to Parliament and doing good work on foreign policy, the Constitution, enlargement – which needs revitalising – the rights of the European Parliament and the Lisbon Process, I would make this appeal to my fellow Members: do not bring it down because of a difference of opinion over someone’s values.
