Mr President, it is a good thing that this newly-elected Parliament should discuss renewable energies, something we have not done since the election.
Admittedly, there will be a report from the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, but I am sure we will be waiting another few months for it.
For that reason, it is a good thing that it is on the agenda today.
The reason, though, why the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats did not put its name to the question was that we have certain doubts about the way in which this is now being articulated.
I share the misgivings that Commissioner Piebalgs has expressed.
Another issue is that there are a number of companies that are already doing a very great deal in the field of renewable energies, and others that are not yet doing so, and there is a lack of nuance in treating them both the same.
We have to do something.
Politicians like ourselves, at the European and national levels, have to create the right framework conditions, so that those who invest a great deal in renewable energies receive an additional incentive to do so by finding the right conditions.
I am grateful to Commissioner Piebalgs for stating the fundamental principles so clearly.
I agree that renewable energies play an important part in a strategy for reducing our dependence on fossil fuels and helping us to achieve the Kyoto objective.
Energy efficiency is another important area, and we believe that nuclear power, too, should make its contribution.
I would, though, like to leave the Commissioner and the House with a final thought.
Among renewable energies, I believe, we have to prioritise in a new way.
A very great deal has been done in the fields of wind power and photovoltaic electricity, but we know that there are problems inherent in both these forms.
Photovoltaic electricity still requires the spending of a very considerable amount of money in order to save a tonne of CO2.
There is a good deal more potential with biomass, and also in the use of heat, that is, solar energy for heating purposes.
The Commission will be heading in the right direction if it addresses this issue and improves the framework conditions in Europe for use of solar energy for heating purposes and for the use of biomass as a whole.
Where that is concerned, I think all the groups in this House are behind you.
