Mr President, that tourism can have many side-effects is not a matter of dispute.
Being from the Tyrol myself, I know what I am talking about, for the Tyrol is now one of the world regions most visited by tourists.
Tourism is the fastest-growing area of the economy and is already providing millions of people with jobs.
Although it has the potential to stabilise incomes and economic conditions in developing countries, it is important that we create the legal framework that is needed if they are to be rid of the perils and risks that follow in tourism’s wake.
What is most important is that we should put the development of tourism in each tourist destination on foundations that will be secure in the long term.
As is stated in paragraph 35 of the motion for a resolution, which makes reference to the WTO’s code of ethics, we have to protect our hosts, and that means that tourists must treat their hosts as such, with respect, rather than behaving in such a way as to wreck structures that have evolved over time.
Such aberrations as sex tourism deserve the most forthright condemnation, and, above all else, punishment at the hands of the law.
We should maintain the European programmes that support financially the fight against these pernicious activities.
Secondly, we have to protect nature in the places abroad that tourists visit, and not just by preventing the speculation in property to which paragraph 40 of the report refers.
It is by our own habits of life that we destroy the natural resources of these countries.
Let us bear in mind that we use far more water and energy than they do, and our lifestyles are of course exported by the way we act when we are there.
There is also a dramatic increase in the amount of waste, which can result in the destruction of natural areas and to over-exploitation.
This is where we have to start from the very outset with concepts of what sustainable tourism is and build on them.
It is only if these conditions are in place that the beneficial effects of foreign travel can be felt to the full, by creating jobs and bringing prosperity, fostering economic development and, above all, stimulating population growth and the life of society.
It can promote understanding between peoples, something that we need in a world that is, alas, becoming less and less secure.
In any case, the report gets a warm welcome from me.
