– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, politics in general and bilateral relations in particular often make compromise necessary.
This is particularly the case if one wants to make progress with partners with whom one has little in common.
I therefore accept the fact that, in some way, and even though the parties do not admit it, a deal has been done, one that involves, on the one hand, Iran’s compliance with the IAEA’s (International Atomic Energy Agency) demands on nuclear matters and, on the other, the resumption of negotiations on the partnership and cooperation agreement with the EU, as happened in January.
There is, however, one area in which no deals can be done, and that is in the field of human rights.
Iran may well behave itself where nuclear energy is concerned, but this House, at any rate, will not reward it by turning a blind eye to what goes on there in the area of human rights, and I would also like to remind the Commission and the Council that any agreement has to be approved by this House.
If the human rights situation continues to develop as it has done so far, I have grave doubts as to whether it will be.
Even the UN General Assembly, when it met on 20 December last year, denounced the deteriorating situation in Iran as regards the freedoms of speech, opinion and the media, as well as the arbitrary arrests without charges or court proceedings.
It is journalists and those who write for the Internet who are on the receiving end of this sort of treatment, and I have learned from the Observatory for the Protection of Human Rights Defenders that the Nobel Peace Prize holder Shirin Ebadi was yesterday summoned to the public prosecutor’s office in Teheran.
The reason for this is not yet known, but my hunch is that this is another case of good old-fashioned intimidation.
Quite apart from that, it is unacceptable that death sentences should still be being carried out, particularly on juveniles and the mentally handicapped, and there is still no confirmation that execution by stoning is now a thing of the past and will not be revived.
Let us then send out a clear message that we will not allow Iran to continue with such a policy.
