– Mr President, the Chinese have a proverb to the effect that one should throw away one’s watch before beginning to negotiate.
This wise saying must not be misunderstood; it counsels stubborn determination rather than inactivity, and it is when, as sometimes happens, we begin to become resigned to the persistence with which the same human rights issues resurface over and over again, that we must continue to speak out with tenacity and a clear voice; we must be unrelenting in the defence of human rights, whether this be in the face of the Chinese Government or of other regimes that trample these rights underfoot.
We must not, though, misinterpret this saying to mean that we should do nothing.
We must be impatient when we protest against the large-scale violations of human rights that occur in a country like China, which is such an important partner.
Our specific concern today is with the fate of a senior Tibetan monk and of a bishop of the Chinese underground church, the brutal persecution of both of whom violates the universally accepted principle of freedom of religion.
Let me make it plain to our Chinese partners that it is unworthy of an ancient and highly-developed culture like their own to suppress another – that of Tibet, which is equally ancient and venerable.
It ill becomes such an advanced culture to oppress and persecute faith communities such as the Buddhist community and the Catholic Church.
China has no need of such a thing, and by doing this it does massive damage to itself.
We Europeans must back up our words with deeds and try to exert pressure to enforce the observance of human rights, even when the state violating them is a large one and an important trading partner, such as Russia in its dealings with Chechnya, and China where Tibet and freedom of religion are concerned.
In these matters, we must apply the same standards, rather than condemning the small states while grovelling to the big ones.
Only if we do will Europe’s human rights policy remain credible in the future.
