Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the market in fruit and vegetables has been subject to wide fluctuations in price since time began; it is something to which producers have – more or less – grown accustomed.
In the past, intervention by way of market withdrawals failed to improve the sector’s stability, and so, in 1996, the reform of the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables introduced a new instrument in the shape of what was termed the operational funds, thus transferring resources from intervention to a modern and forward-looking instrument.
It is now for us to come up with progressive instruments for the fruit and vegetables sector.
We cannot work on the basis of a ‘return to old-style intervention’, still less to developing and extending it, or of a crisis management system existing to deal only with crises in the market.
As I understand it, a modern crisis management system should also bear the brunt of crises brought on by the weather, for example, by supporting multi-risk insurance.
This is something we should think about.
It is not enough, where processed products are concerned, simply to plead the cause of production thresholds, which are antiquated and obsolete, and of processing aid.
Why do we not also give thought to decoupling aid in the fruit and vegetable processing sector?
Now that decoupling characterises the whole of the reform of the common agricultural policy, it ought also, for the sake of consistency, to apply here.
The Commission has decided to proceed with the simplification of the common organisation of the market in fresh fruit and vegetables and with the revision of the COM in processed fruit and vegetables, both in 2006.
As regards fresh fruit and vegetables, the requirements of a modern market organisation are, today, largely met.
I am persuaded that the common organisation of the market in processed fruit and vegetables is in need of fundamental reform.
More good approaches are required.
Here in Europe, there is a need for a fundamental debate on this, and a market-oriented sector needs indications as to the way it should go in future.
