– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I have several comments would like to make, having had the opportunity to visit the Middle East with the Commissioner just before the Sharm el Sheikh summit.
As regards the Middle East programme as a whole, we know that stable development – through better economic and social conditions and through democracy-building – is very important.
However, we also know that this will only work in the long term if the Middle East is able to solve its own problems, because they are the cause of, or an alibi for, many others.
That is why the present situation in the Middle East is immensely important, especially since I believe there is a real chance, for the first time, of reaching an agreement.
I say this on the basis of my visit there, when I met with leading representatives of the Palestinians and Israel and each ascribed positive motives to the other.
That is the crucial difference compared with the previous situation, and it is the key basis on which to build a successful process.
We must ensure that the Middle East Quartet now meets together in the region at last.
It should not just rely on the written roadmap; it should visit the region as a joint body.
We must ensure that we support the framework conditions that will facilitate an agreement between the leaders of the two sides.
This includes bringing clear influence to bear on Iran and Syria in order to stop Hezbollah from wrecking the peace process from outside.
We must support President Abbas so that the Palestinian people can see that peace benefits everyone.
That is why assistance must be provided very swiftly.
I do realise, Commissioner, that this House has always taken a very critical line on this issue.
What is needed now, though, is swift action.
This does not mean that something should be done through some programme or other at some point in time; it means making it clear, preferably before the parliamentary elections in summer, that it is worth taking the moderates' side.
In this way, the cycle of violence can be broken, which is essential if the Israeli leaders are to secure the necessary support from their own people by being able to say to them that the peace process means no more terrorism.
Prompt action is therefore required.
