Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all agreed that wine is among agriculture’s most elegant products.
Some 265 million hectolitres of wine are produced every year, two-thirds of them in Europe.
The Wine Agreement between the EU and the USA is first to be concluded with the object of securing this important market for sales from the EU.
The intention is that this agreement should dispel the legal uncertainty that has marked this trading relationship for many years, and it was designed to benefit producers on both sides of the Atlantic.
The conclusion of this first agreement is meant to create the conditions for future close cooperation with the USA in the wine sector and protect designations of origin in the EU.
The Commissioner herself described this agreement as an important first step, and said that it is still not without faults.
Like the other Members, I am much obliged to her for this statement.
The European Union is doing something it has never done before by agreeing to the principle of the unconditional recognition of oenological processes.
The Member States had hitherto always argued that there should be what they termed an international code of definitions for wine and the processes involved in its manufacture.
It is for that reason that I believe doing this puts a question mark against the continued existence of the international organisation, the OIV.
As far as the protection of European designations of geographical origin is concerned, the concessions made in this agreement go too far.
They affect all those regions that base their quality systems on designations of origin or traditional terminology.
While there is no doubt that we need a trade agreement with the USA, what we need is an agreement with unambiguous legal provisions that do not undermine existing European law and requirements and offer a secure future to our European high-quality wines.
There is to be another round of negotiations once the first agreement has been in force for ninety days.
I believe that this approach is absolutely right, proper and necessary, and I hope that the decisions taken then will make it possible for us to withdraw the criticisms we have expressed today.
All the best, Commissioner!
