.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, at a time like the present, when this European Union of ours is weakened, I believe that we have to make clear what great importance we attach to transatlantic relationships, the improvement of which does, in many ways, help us in turn to manifest more clearly our capacity for action.
What makes the summit so very significant is that it resolves certain issues at the same time as setting certain processes in motion.
On economic issues, solutions must be found, and agreements reached, with greater speed, for the two great democracies on opposite sides of the Atlantic are still, economically speaking, the world’s great powers.
If they are capable of stimulating growth – and it is very important that they should, from the point of view of combating unemployment and improving the global situation as a whole – then they should do so within the bounds of a multilateral framework.
That is important not least in terms of the overall political situation.
We know from the unresolved developments in the world, and from the hazards and pressures that they bring, that it is only together that democracies can find solutions to these – not only on the basis of Nato, but also on the basis of what the European Union has come to acquire by way of powers and responsibilities in foreign and security policy, in legal and internal policies, and also in the sphere of economic policy.
It now remains for us to find a suitable framework for this, one in which we can properly develop this policy in future, and the Transatlantic Partnership Agreement we have proposed can play a crucial part in creating one.
I was interested to read in the Commission communication that there was no political support for this, apart from in the US Congress and in this House.
The Commission, though, appears to regard the support for it in both these places as irrelevant.
After all, consideration should be given to whether we might now be able to take a bold step forwards, and, instead of seeking the solution in the detail, mandating the Summit to examine, over the next 12 months, ways in which we can make progress in these areas.
The Americans have treaties with almost everyone on the face of the earth, as does the European Union, but there is no treaty between the United States and the European Union.
We should give some thought to the possibility of concluding one, thereby putting things on a better footing, instead of spending 30 years in the belief that the Airbus/Boeing dispute was at the heart of all we did and said.
