Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me, too, start by extending warm thanks to the rapporteur and to all the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and also for their willingness to engage in dialogue on this issue.
Today, we are debating the establishment of guidelines for trans-European energy networks.
The decision we reach concerning these guidelines will determine the future development of a modern infrastructure for trans-European energy networks.
I would like to use this short speech to highlight something that matters particularly to me, namely the decision to incorporate, for the first time, what are known as olefin gas pipelines into the trans-European energy networks.
While I agree with the rapporteur that this is of great importance in terms of Europe’s success as an industrial and business location, the Commission proposal does have what I regard as the unfortunate disadvantage of not specifying individual stretches, and, on behalf of my group, I have tabled Amendment 39 in order to remedy this defect.
There are already some individual olefin gas networks in the European Union; they are to be found in the west of our continent and in the new Member States, but there is no link between the two.
Amendment 39, which I will again take this opportunity of urging you to support, lists a number of selected stretches that could be used to bridge these gaps without delay and in a sustainable manner, thereby securing the supply of olefin gases and keeping our businesses viable.
It is clear – in view of the paucity of funds available – that not every project can be supported, and my amendment is not, indeed, concerned with financial support for the stretches named in it.
My concern is that there should be a clear statement of policy and an indication that these stretches are of particular significance to the European Union and its Member States.
It is for that reason that I again urge you to lend your support to Amendment 39 when we vote tomorrow.
