Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, competition policy is one of the Commission’s key tasks in relation to the internal market.
To judge by the debate that took place a few hours ago, it is apparent that the European Union really is a global player in this field.
It is also apparent that Mrs Kroes is acting as a stand-in as far as this work is concerned, since the report that has been tabled and is being discussed relates to the previous Commission’s work, and I should like to wish her the best of luck in this respect.
For as long as the European Communities have existed, the successful work carried out by the Commission has played a significant part in helping to ensure that a characteristic feature of the European market has been fair competition, which has brought the benefits of quality and reasonable prices to all citizens.
It is against this background that Mr Evans’ report evaluates the work carried out by the Commission’s Competition DG in 2003, even though decisions that were taken during this period were taken under the aegis of the previous Commission.
The aim of the debate on this report should therefore be to examine and evaluate the extensive amendments that have been made to European competition law and the major changes that have taken place within the European Commission in terms of their future effectiveness.
There can be no doubt that the aforementioned amendments and changes are, in principle, likely to maintain the high standard of European competition policy.
As I mentioned in my question, however, I believe that there are a number of areas where improvements would be useful.
These include protection for principal witnesses in competition law cases throughout Europe, the legal status of Internet publications and guaranteed protection against double prosecution under monopoly law.
Irrespective of these concerns, however, the report before us provides an excellent basis for carrying out future work in the usual successful manner.
I wish you the best of luck in ensuring that the decisions you take over coming months stand up in court.
I also hope that you will be able to follow the previous Commission’s example and to take decisions that are in the public’s interest, as trust and authority are crucial as far as competition policy is concerned.
I hope that you will enjoy both.
