Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if there is success in the European Union, it is in community, in cooperation, in a common interest in the ongoing development of the kind that is before us.
We have to consider how we are going to deal with what we face in the years to come, and the public are watching us closely as we do so.
What do our actions do for our credibility?
We know that there are tasks awaiting us that will call for courage and a pro-active approach, that will require that we spell out the fact that this European Union is an economic community with an interest in success.
While the consequence of this is that we have to invest in the future by stepping up research and improving education and training, we also have to take care that, in this economic community geared to economic success, people and regions are not left behind, and so there is also a need for assistance for those who may, in the course of these changes and developments, have got into difficulties or are already living under problematic circumstances.
It is there in this report.
It is because the report that Mr Böge has presented specifically aims to set out guidelines for this and to make available the resources that we need that we are prepared to support it, but the public also expect their representatives – for such is what we are – to think not only about how to spend money where necessary, but also about the supply side; in other words, they want to know where the money is going to come from.
It is, after all, the public who have to foot the bill for all this.
It must therefore be acceptable to ask at European level whether the burden of these tasks is equally shared.
It is quite clear that nothing now justifies the British rebate.
We all have to go out and show the people of Europe, in all our countries, that we are ready and willing to make the necessary funding available.
At the same time, we are ready and able to ensure that the resulting burdens are shared out fairly and in a spirit of solidarity.
Solidarity means not just joining together in sharing out resources; it also means making sure that individuals are not overburdened while others stand aside and bid them manage as best they can.
We want to ensure together that Europe changes for the better.
