Mr President, the withdrawal from Gaza was without doubt an historic course of action and will remain of historic significance.
It will have no lasting effect, though, if we do not endeavour – together with the Palestinians and with Israeli support – to make Gaza a viable region, and if we fail, at the same time, to persuade the Israelis that more needs to be done in the West Bank as well.
There will not be as many withdrawals as we in this House – and, above all, the Palestinians – would probably like to see, but, as Mr Kasoulides said, this process must continue if it is not to collapse and deny us many of the positive outcomes for which we hope.
Secondly, I would like to join Mr McMillan-Scott and others in highlighting the importance of our investing in the whole region, especially in the development of democracy and civil society.
One aspect of the war on terrorism, about which we have had a debate today with Mr Clarke is the need for development in the surrounding region, in particular in the Islamic and Arab world, and for that the right political and financial measures will be needed.
That is something of which I would like to remind the Presidency: financial resources will, of course, be needed if we are to invest in Gaza and in the region as a whole.
Making promises and committing oneself to this is one thing, but thought also has to be given to this when planning budgets.
Finally, I will turn to Iran.
We are deeply concerned about the way things are going in Iran, but they are a consequence of our toleration of the development of nuclear weapons not only by such countries as Pakistan and India, but also by Israel, and also of our inability to limit their general proliferation.
Although action on our part is necessary, it has to be taken in consultation with all interested parties if it is to be effective.
It is because unilateral sanctions will not be effective that this matter must be handed over to the United Nations in order for a common solution to be found.
I hope that the British Presidency of the Council will go down that road with perceptiveness and clarity of vision.
