Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my own country, we have, for several weeks, had to watch CDU/CSU parliamentarians making a truly grotesque attempt at using this directive on optical radiation for their own purposes in the German election.
The amendment tabled by Mr Ferber and Mr Nassauer, with its aim of rejecting the Common Position as a whole, now marks the climax of this campaign, and it is truly a sad sight.
One might have expected an amendment like this from the British Tories, but not from the CDU/CSU; with it, these Members are expressing their opposition to workplace protection in the EU as a whole, and it has to be said that their putting it up for grabs also runs counter to their former position on workplace protection.
The CDU/CSU voted in favour of all three of the other workplace protection directives; it supported all of them.
Can someone perhaps explain to me why they want to improve the protection of workers in the workplace from hazards arising from vibration, noise and electromagnetic radiation, but not from those resulting from optical radiation?
To Mrs Weisgerber I have to say that anyone who refers, in the title of their press release, to a ‘sunshine directive’, is consciously aiming to misinform.
You are well aware, Mrs Weisgerber, that this directive is primarily concerned with protection from artificial radiation, but you have nothing to say about that; instead, you take natural radiation and fabricate a bogeyman, hypocritically prating about being close to the citizens.
All this is obliging employers to inform their workers about the health risks associated with sunlight, a point reiterated with great clarity by our PSE Group’s two amendments.
Whether – and, if so, how – the workers protect themselves again the sun’s rays in practice is still left to them alone to decide.
The handing out of notice sheets is surely not too much to ask.
In the past, doing that sort of thing got a lot done on the workplace protection front.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament also want to allow the Member States to define their own specific criteria for how the risk assessment is to be carried out.
That does indeed take proper account of subsidiarity, but what we Socialists cannot go along with is workplace protection in Europe.
