. – Mr President, I should like to begin my short speech by emphasising that we hold Commissioner Piebalgs in very high regard on account of his efficiency and commitment in driving energy policy forward.
I am very pleased that he has supported and emphasised that again in recent days, and also that the Presidency has made a number of commitments here on the issue of energy policy.
Nevertheless, from the point of view of our Group, the words of the Commission or Commission President on this subject have been rather inadequate, for, as Mr Alexander explained, these markets – if one can even call them that – are very lacking in transparency.
On the other hand, the EU must speak in a clear political language in all fields – from foreign policy to transport policy, from agricultural policy to trade policy.
This is also – not exclusively, of course – particularly applicable to energy policy.
I warmly welcome the Commissioner’s statement today, as it goes a little further than our previous discussions.
He said the same thing this morning in committee.
On the subject of the oil companies, however – I do not envy them or their shareholders their large profits – I do believe that greater socio-political responsibility for our common society and for the future of the companies themselves is needed.
It must be recognised, however, that only a small proportion of these profits can be used for increasing investment for their own benefit, for example in the mixing of biofuels, as is now the case in some countries, and also, of course, in research and development in the field of alternative energies.
The Commissioner said this morning that he is aware that what has been spent up to now is only peanuts.
I hope that, following the dialogue that you announced here, this will be at least a few more peanuts.
If you remain Commissioner even longer, there may even, over time, be enough for a cake, an energy cake, which we can offer the European public.
I wish the Commissioner good luck and a great deal of strength, and I ask him to tell the executives of the major oil companies that Parliament is expecting them to do something for our common society.
