Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by expressing my respect for the rapporteur and for his thoroughly ambitious effort that we are debating in this House today.
Although the report contains many good individual measures, I am unable to vote in favour of it.
The reason why my group has tabled its own motion for a resolution is that we wanted to take a different political course in the period from 2007 to 2013.
The principal reason for my negative response to the Böge report is that the European Union is not equal to the enormous challenges it must face with the next Financial Perspective.
If we are to consider what needs to be done in society, the economy and the environment – particularly dealing with the demands made by regional cohesion, the high unemployment figures, poverty and income inequality – then we need to do so in a macro-economic context.
There is no trace of that in this report.
Generally speaking, we do not think that the upper limits proposed by the Commission for the Budget go far enough.
Its plan for giving the European Union more and more powers and responsibilities without, at the same time, allocating to it the financial resources it will need to realise them is quite simply not workable.
We regard the prioritisation of competitiveness, security and defence at the expense of cohesion, of the social and environmental dimension and of cooperation with developing countries as unacceptable.
This Financial Perspective reflects the attempt at implementing the Lisbon strategy, and we expressed our opposition to the present form of the latter when it was debated.
It is full employment and sustainable economic development that should instead be the strategic goals, and that means allocating additional financial resources to innovation, social needs and education in particular.
A reduced contribution of 0.41% of Europe’s gross domestic product will not make a strong European regional policy happen.
I hope that the Council will now not delay in reaching a decision, for, if it fails to do so, we can already reckon with the impossibility of proper allocation of new assistance funds at the beginning of 2007, and this would be politically irresponsible.
