Madam President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats wishes to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Grosch, on his excellent report on the Commission’s proposal for a third Directive on driving licences.
He has presented detailed proposals for improvements relating to the future introduction of a uniform European driving licence and, most importantly, has drawn up people-friendly provisions, such as those dealing with caravans and campers.
He has also tabled clear proposals for improvements in the realm of so-called driving-licence tourism.
The cause of road safety is not served by allowing someone whose licence has been revoked with good reason to obtain a new one immediately in a neighbouring country.
In this respect, Mr Grosch has made an excellent job of fleshing out the principle of eliminating licence tourism.
There are, however, two points in the report which my group rejects.
Like the Commission, Mr Vice-President, we oppose the compulsory exchange of existing driving licences.
Road safety is not improved in any way by making people go to a public authority, have a new photograph taken and be issued with a new licence document.
At best, such an arrangement facilitates police checks, but it does nothing to improve road safety.
If the benefit of simpler police checks is compared with the trouble and inconvenience to which drivers would be put – tens of thousands of them, if not more, who will never drive in another EU country would still be required to obtain a new licence – the inconvenience outweighs any benefits, and my group joins the Commission in opposing such a provision.
The second point we reject in the report relates to the compulsory limitation of the validity of licence documents.
This does nothing to enhance road safety either.
It only means that people have to go to the authorities, have a new photograph taken and be issued with a new licence document, even though, as the rapporteur rightly recognises, the authorisation resulting from the original driving test remains valid.
I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to help us by supporting our position for the sake of the people of Europe.
We do not want the compulsory exchange of driving licences, and we do not want any limitation of their validity.
