.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we often overlook this region because it was formerly hidden in the shadows of the Soviet Union, and did not therefore develop in any independent way.
Today, however, the region is of enormous strategic importance due to its reserves of gas and oil, and its significance in terms of energy supplies and so on.
This strategic importance is also a result of China’s increasing interest in the region, the rise of Muslim fundamentalism and the fact that a number of these countries are getting caught up in the drug trade.
We must face up to the fact that this erosion of democracy, of the rule of law and of human rights is making it increasingly difficult to cooperate with the region, to honour existing partnership and cooperation agreements and to conclude or ratify new agreements.
We must also realise that regimes of this kind are turning into islands of instability rather than stability, as we have seen from the elections in Kyrgyzstan and the earlier events in Ukraine.
The more unstable the situation in a region of such critical geographical importance, the greater the impact will be on our interests.
It is for this reason that I should like to invite the House to think much more along the lines of a common strategy on this matter rather than tackling individual issues, and I would emphasise how important it is that genuine support be provided for the democratic process in these countries.
My next comments are intended for the Council and the Commission.
As I see it, it is in everyone’s interest for us to reach an agreement with the United States, which no longer merely views the country as a short-term base camp for Afghanistan, and with Russia, whose attitude towards developments of this kind is often influenced by old beliefs.
It is in the interests of all three partners that the region should be stabilised, but we will be able to achieve this only if we work together to establish democracy and the rule of law.
We should make this a new priority.
