.
Mr President, last Saturday, in Burma’s capital, Rangoon, explosives were detonated in shopping arcades, department stores and in an exhibition centre, killing 11 people and seriously injuring 150 others.
On behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I denounce this resumption of terror.
These attacks show that, since our debate in September 2004, the situation, far from improving, has, tragically, become more acute – something highlighted by Mr Posselt and by other previous speakers.
Burma/Myanmar is a multi-ethnic state, and has been under military rule with scarcely any interruption since 1962.
To this day, the military refuse to allow the National League for Democracy, which won the 1990 elections, to form a government, and the National Assembly meets without democratically elected members.
In February 2005, the leaders of numerous opposition parties and ethnic groups were arrested.
Despite massive international protest, including – on many occasions – from this House, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi is still under house arrest.
Forced labour is so widespread that the International Labour Organisation ILO has called on the EU Member States to reconsider their relations with Burma.
I have to say, Commissioner Dimas, that, with these things going on, I do not understand what the Commission is doing.
During this year’s ‘Burma/Myanmar Day’, you presented a report that held out the prospect of increased economic and social cooperation with the regime.
The EU is a community of values, first among them the protection of human rights and the safeguarding of democracy.
If the EU wants to be able to make a tangible contribution, let it appoint a Special Envoy for Burma.
At long last, there must be dialogue between the military junta and the democracy movement.
Ethnic groups and minorities must gain acceptance at long last.
Humanitarian and social evils must be done away with.
Only when there is demonstrable progress in these areas will there be any justification for stepping up aid from the European Union.
