– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, greatly disappointed though the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats has been by the referenda in France and the Netherlands, the greatest danger that we now face is that of losing direction.
That is why we say that the European Union might not be the answer to all of our problems, but without the European Union we will not be able to overcome any of the major challenges facing us, and that is why we say: the objective is still right!
France and the Netherlands – two important countries, admittedly – cannot take responsibility for the 25 Members of the European Union.
Secondly, the ten countries that have ratified the Constitutional Treaty represent 220 million people; these ten ratifications cannot and must not go by the board.
Thirdly, the 13 countries that have yet to ratify are entitled to express their views on the constitution.
That is why we recommend a pause for reflection.
No one has a quick-fix solution today.
We need to reflect.
We must be calm and collected.
In the same way, however, we need to combine being calm and collected with determination, and probably the right solution – although this is for the Heads of State or Government to decide – is to engage in a period of reflection and thought, and to postpone the referenda for a certain amount of time.
This must all be reflected on.
There are a whole host of possible reasons for the ‘no’ votes in the Netherlands and France.
Some of them are identical; some are not.
The unpopularity of the present leadership, the government, is perhaps a factor.
Then there is the point that you made, Mr President, a point which also concerns us in the European Parliament: less legislation in Europe is sometimes more for all of us.
Then the issue of enlargement: it is very significant that people have the impression that everything is moving too quickly.
We have to take this into account.
In our group’s view, we need firstly to endeavour – and given the subjects at issue this will lead to more quarrels – to ensure that we concentrate on the essential issues.
Europe must be strong where Europe alone can act, and we also need to be more strict about applying the principle of subsidiarity.
Secondly, we must not overstretch this European Union politically, culturally or geographically.
That is the major concern that was expressed in the referenda, and it is one that we must take very seriously.
We say very firmly: But does not apply solely to the European Union, but also to those countries that want to join the European Union.
It also applies to both Romania and Bulgaria!
Mr President of the Commission, I would make this request to you and your staff: when you draft your progress report for Romania and Bulgaria – Parliament has given its assent for both countries, but there will be this progress report – please do not pull your punches in this report, but describe the situation as it really is, openly and honestly.
That is what we now expect from you.
Then we will be able to draw conclusions from this progress report.
As far as Turkey is concerned, we are expecting – the Council still has to decide of course – that Turkey will also meet the conditions set, and introduce the six pieces of legislation concerned.
They need to be ratified.
The question of whether Turkey is fit for entry to the European Union is also relevant.
Cyprus also needs to be unambiguously recognised, for how can you negotiate with a party that you do not even recognise?
We need an answer to this too.
The negotiations will be open-ended.
But we would ask for this to be the subject of reflection, and I confess that in our group, as in other groups, opinions diverge on this.
The objective can be membership, but it can also be a privileged partnership.
We need to have an open and honest conversation about this, so that we do not raise any false expectations.
I wish you, Mr President-in-Office, and the Commission – and I was delighted to hear both of your impressive speeches – every success with the financial perspective.
Everyone needs to make a move here: those who have written the letters, but also the United Kingdom, so that we again prove that we are able to act.
This will also serve to rebuild confidence all round.
I wish the President-in-Office, the President of the Commission and of course the President of our own House every success.
This crisis has to be seen as an opportunity!
We carry on down the same path, albeit perhaps not at such speed.
We have understood the message, but we remain committed to Europe and Europe remains our major objective!
