– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if we wish to get to grips with the Lisbon strategy, we must invest in research, development and innovation.
In order to do that, we need money, and so we must increase funding.
Commissioner, you have my full support in obtaining the Council’s agreement with the help of this House.
Secondly, if we ask for more money we must see to it that these funds are put to the best possible use.
We must also learn the lessons from the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, and make procedures simpler, less bureaucratic and more streamlined.
I see this as an absolutely crucial task that we must all strive to achieve, and both the Commission and Parliament are needed in this respect.
The members of the Committee on Budgets are presently examining the Financial Regulation, and this is another area where work must be done and improvements made.
Commissioner, this is another task for which you and your College are needed.
What is needed is professional project management, and I am eagerly awaiting your proposals on this issue on 6 April.
Finally, I should like to return to the lessons we should learn from the Sixth Framework Programme.
Industry involvement fell under the Sixth Framework Programme, and we must come up with ideas of ways to buck this trend.
If we are serious about the Lisbon goals, we simply need more investment in research and development.
Such investment must also come from the private sector, and I would be interested to hear the Commissioner's ideas in response to the following question; how do you intend to get industry, in small and medium-sized enterprises, more involved in the Seventh Framework Programme?
I listened very attentively to Mr Ransdorf’s comments; he mentioned that we need, among other things, a better depreciation policy and more flexible legislation.
These are useful considerations, but I would be interested to hear the Commissioner's proposals in this regard as well.
