.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall now, for once, use my three minutes to say something basic.
I do not propose to go into the vast number of points of detail that many in the House find incomprehensible but which those of us who are involved in this debate understand as a matter of course; I am sure that there will be other Members who will want to discuss them.
This directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries is a piece of legislation that does not exactly evoke much interest on the part of most of the European public – at any rate, not from those who live in my own country – but that has done nothing to save us from energetic lobbying on the part of interested parties – on the one hand, the unions, the industry and its associations and, on the other, the various environmental and consumer groups.
Our drafting of a resolution has been made no easier by the fact that none of them want the same thing all the time – sometimes, indeed, the precise opposite.
All the same, I do believe that the Environmental Committee has presented the plenary with a balanced piece of legislation on which to vote, particularly as this Directive is supplementary in character.
The Waste Framework Directive and the Landfill Directive largely exclude the extractive industries, the types of waste produced by which do not in fact fit the regulations exactly, in that many of them present no problems in terms of the environment.
Legal certainty, though, is a necessity – not only for people and their environment, but also for trading enterprises and for businesses engaged in the extraction of such raw materials as oil, coal, metals, clay, gravel or sand.
There are two things that the Social Democrats in the European Parliament always bear in mind: first, the protection of people and the environment, with a sustainable way of doing business, and secondly our enterprises’ need for a proper framework and conditions if they are to be able to do business and create jobs for the people whom we – as I said in my first point – want to protect from harm.
Our rapporteur, Mr Sjöstedt, has been perceptive and rigorous in taking both these principles into account in this proposal for a resolution, and for that, many thanks to him.
