Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the present situation with regard to oil prices is highly unsatisfactory.
On the one hand, consumers are paying very high prices; on the other, windfall profits are being generated, in not only the oil sector, but also other energy sectors.
I believe that it is our responsibility to discuss the best use to which the companies could put these windfall profits and also, in particular, what the states that benefit the most from them could be doing with these taxes.
The primary issue must be that this revenue is not being invested in other fields.
Perhaps the Commission should draw up an action plan for a questionnaire enquiring as to the best use to which the companies and, in particular, the nation-states could put this additional revenue pouring into their coffers.
One possibility would be to launch a kind of benchmarking and best-practice project to ensure that this revenue is spent on research and development, efficiency measures, tax relief – not on consumption, but in the investment field – on relocations and on the CIP Programme.
A completely new possibility of embarking on a new path opens up in this regard.
I believe that we could collect examples of the best way of managing this in the nation-states – and perhaps even at international level.
The second major issue is as follows: at the present time, invoices are being issued in dollars.
This may be to our advantage at the moment, but it is also possible for the tide to turn, that is to say, when prices rise further and the dollar changes direction.
For this reason, we should perhaps consider whether it is possible to create a separate euro zone in the energy sector for non-OPEC countries, or even incentives for the creation of such a zone, because this, too, would bring a certain degree of stability and independence.
My final point is that, for the hedge funds, we need capital requirements and conditions of liability that are complied with, and ultimately also transparency, in order to suitably prevent unnecessary market speculation in future.
