Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to start by saying that I agree with all the expressions of sympathy in response to the calamity in South-East Asia.
Having said that, I will now concentrate on making a few rather sobering comments.
The donations made by people in the European Union and throughout the world are a truly overpowering demonstration of goodwill.
The evidence of how the whole of the globalised world has been touched by this terrible event also makes a deep impression.
In Germany, though, we have a proverb to the effect that ‘good intentions do not always do any good’.
We need to learn how to help.
The banner headline on today’s issue of one of the major German newspapers is ‘Many disorganised aid workers make Indonesia’s work difficult’.
It also has to be said that the way in which the European Union has gone about things there is hardly likely to call forth rapturous enthusiasm about the success of the work it does.
Let me also quote this: ‘If it were not for the American and Australian armies, who are all over the place, flying their cargo planes back and forth on a regular basis, then things would be far worse still.’
There is a problem here.
It is quite obvious that what we need is not just goodwill and the willingness to come up with plenty of money; we also need an organisation that can get this money, in a proper way, to the people who need it.
Let me therefore endorse what has already been said this morning: above all else, the European Union needs a crisis management unit, in other words, something with transport capacity, leadership and communications resources, and units to provide sanitation and supplies; that is what is needed if we want to help in a really practical way and very quickly.
Until such time as the European Union has an army of its own that can deal with that sort of thing, we do in fact also need – however much goodwill is there – practical ways of delivering help, and a crisis management unit would be the very thing.
That is what the EU must concentrate on.
