Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am grateful to the rapporteur for his report and for the unambiguous stance he has adopted.
What this House is doing today is an expression of its innate responsibility for the defence of human rights, and not just of any old right, but of what is perhaps the most ancient human right known to man, the right of asylum, which can be seen as derived from the laws of hospitality, and which was, to the most ancient of human cultures, sacrosanct.
If we are to scrutinise these decisions, we need to look into the mirror of history.
If the defence of human dignity can be threatened by fears and public moods, it is scarcely to our credit and does not say much for our courage and strength.
The Council consults Parliament, so let it be said in the plainest of language what we are dealing with here: interference with fundamental rights, the police, and the laws of Member States, and none of it with any parliamentary legitimacy.
No wonder people in this EU of ours are putting up resistance, howling with outrage at the democratic deficit, the gaps in fundamental rights and in the monitoring of what goes on.
To what kind of pass has Europe come?
How it is possible for fundamental rights to be interfered with without Parliament having any say in what is decided?
The Council consults us, yet it itself is not present; the Council wants to listen to Parliament, and yet it is not here!
Why, though, should it be?
The fact is that the Council is consulting us only after it has already concluded an agreement, only after its members have done a deal among themselves.
Heads of Government are not in the least aware of the fact that it goes against our culture for ministers of the interior, ministers with responsibility for the police, to make laws for themselves, to interfere with fundamental rights, to make the most difficult decisions about the balance between security and human rights without reference to Parliament.
We are, admittedly, being consulted, but the Council is not here.
The object of this initiative by the Council is to put Europe beyond the reach of refugees, to make a mockery of the right of asylum and to make it, in essence, null and void.
That is the state we are in.
