Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my love of research is the only reason why I am present at this evening’s late-night sitting, as I must admit that I would rather have watched Bayern Munich play Arsenal in the Champions League.
I too should like to start by expressing my wholehearted thanks to the rapporteur.
Not only has Mrs Locatelli presented a fine report, but she has also demonstrated a willingness to compromise.
A unanimous vote by this House tomorrow in favour of this report will both send out a signal and provide our Research Commissioner with the backing he needs.
This morning we spent a long time discussing the Lisbon Strategy.
The only way to make Europe competitive is to invest huge amounts in research and development in the future.
The Commissioner frequently refers to a ‘moment of truth’, and I believe that he is right to do so.
We must ensure that the research budget is large enough for us to achieve the Lisbon goal at long last.
This will not be enough on its own, of course.
Public funding is a good thing, but we must also encourage private industry and the private sector to invest heavily in research and development, and to make money available for this purpose.
I was delighted to hear you say earlier this evening that you are planning to issue guidelines particularly aimed at improving cooperation between research and industry in this respect.
I should like to make one more point, one that I have raised in this House on a number of occasions, and to which you too have referred.
It is pointless to increase funding unless this money is then spent on research in a truly efficient manner.
It is also crucial that the correct lessons be learned from the Sixth Research Framework Programme, from the Marimon report and from the criticism that has been levelled at the Framework Programme.
Programmes must be made simpler, more streamlined and less bureaucratic, and I would call on the Commission and on Parliament to do their homework on this matter.
We must ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises are also successfully involved in European research.
I look forward to the rest of the debate.
