.
Mr President, Commissioner, let me start by expressing my – our – congratulations on your success in achieving this interim result in the negotiations with the United States.
This is an important trade project, accounting for EUR 2.3 billion, but the trading relationship involves two different systems, with different approaches to production and marketing, and so cooperation is not easy.
It is for that reason that this agreement can be regarded as no more than a first step, a first phase agreement, and I am glad that you have described it in those terms.
In the past, we accepted many derogations for the Americans; the trading relationship made that necessary.
What matters now, though, is that our rules on labelling should be enforced, and we also see it as significant that the USA is ready and willing to resolve all bilateral issues through consultation rather than through the WTO’s dispute settlement procedures, but what is surely most important to us Europeans is that geographical indications of origin should enjoy in the United States the protection that they deserve, in return for which we – for the time being – are prepared to accept the Americans’ winemaking practices.
That may be a bitter pill, but we have to swallow it; its effect will be only temporary and the labelling rules – which will result in greater freedom for what we hope are emancipated consumers – will help it go down.
Nevertheless, in the second stage of negotiations, the Commission must go further and press for the improved protection of intellectual property in winemaking, an area in which we Europeans have led the world in establishing worldwide standards, and so we should not relax our efforts on this point; we also suggest that the Commission should push for a WTO-wide register of geographical descriptions of origin, something that both the speakers before me mentioned.
To sum up, this agreement may not be brilliant, but it is a first, and an important step, and you, Commissioner, have done the right thing.
The next step must now be taken hand in hand with the reform of the market organisation for wine, to which we all look forward eagerly.
We can take pride in our European wine.
It is esteemed and enjoyed the world over.
We enjoy a global advantage in wine production, and we need to maintain it by further improving the protection of intellectual property.
We wish you, Commissioner, much success in doing this.
