Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, over the past weeks and months, I have lost count of the debates I have heard in Turkey on the need to keep to agreements – , but that seems to apply only to the European side, and, in this House, not even to all, but only to those who take a critical view of Turkey and its accession.
The principle appears to apply only to us, with no demands being made of Turkey, which is evidently – to judge by the events of the past few months – not even prepared to abide by our rules. ; but not even the Council or the Commission put that into practice, for they constantly break the rules, and infringe the treaties that we have in common.
They really ought to be taken to court for it.
The Copenhagen political criteria are non-negotiable, and the other candidate countries had to fulfil them before negotiations could begin.
Suddenly, none of that applies to Turkey any more, even though – despite all the reforms – everything there is wrong.
What has happened?
Commissioner Rehn said earlier that the Commission finds Turkey’s misdemeanours regrettable, yet it is still arguing forcefully in favour of negotiations and full membership.
The Commission tells us that Turkey now attaches great importance to economic and social development in its south-eastern regions; well, it does not.
What is going on there at the moment is a great show staged by Mr Erdoğan.
The truth is that the Kurds are shut out not only from the EU process, but also from their own national parliament.
Let us not forget that it was a member of the Turkish Government who originally blocked the conference on the Armenians.
Orhan Pamuk is being put on trial.
The day before yesterday, Turkey’s gay and lesbian organisation was outlawed.
Peaceful demonstrators were beaten to the ground and then hauled before the courts.
Torture is still widely practised.
The position of women is shameful; that alone is a reason to say no to negotiations being started, for there is no prospect of any change in that area.
Freedom of religion does not exist in practice, but Turkey quotes it as justification for the country’s Islamicisation.
By abandoning – whether out of naivety or in the service of massive national interests – any and every means of exerting pressure, the European Union is allowing all these things.
In Turkey, though, things change only if ...
