– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I would like you to convey some sad news to your colleagues at the European summit.
The scapegoat has done its duty, but it is in a wretched state.
It has collapsed: it was left to the mercy of the public’s anger and they have subjected it to a cruel beating.
What I am talking about is Europe, on the one hand, and the governments on the other.
Not for the first time, but for the nth time, they have invited the public to vent their wrath on Europe, for matters for which they bear the responsibility.
I know that the battle over how to interpret the ‘no’ vote has been raging for some time already, and whoever wins it will determine the course of events and identify the way out of the crisis.
Is it the victory of nationalism over Europe?
Is it public discontent over our achievements, or is it – and this is my view – a public revolt against Europe as it is?
What is farcical about this is that the revolt against the Europe that we have makes the new Europe impossible.
The patient was so angry about his illness that he shot the doctor, but you will understand, Mr President-in-Office, that I feel rather nervous when I see that it is precisely the governments that are once again gathering around Europe’s sickbed.
What is then the existing Europe that the citizens are holding responsible here?
Is it really the dictatorship of the cold-blooded Brussels bureaucracy?
Is it really the kraken of a new superstate that feeds on the national identity of its citizens?
Or is it not rather this weak, ailing, irresolute Europe that has by no means overcome nationalism; the Europe of state chancelleries; the Europe of closed doors; the indecisive, asocial Europe; the Europe with the severe democratic deficit?
Is it not the Europe of governments, which in the arrogance of their power imagined that they could rule Europe on the side?
On the side – as the government, administration, legislator and even the provider of the constitution!
Is it not this Europe that we need to do away with?
Surely the governments bear more responsibility than the scapegoat that is being beaten here.
Is it not true that the governments blocked the convention after trying to dominate it?
Did the social issue not founder there?
