– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons are dangerous substances used in the manufacture of tyres for various vehicles.
Because of their toxicity, we are today debating their restriction.
We have before us a compromise which will probably be accepted tomorrow by a large majority.
Happy though I am when we avoid ideological debates on technical issues and adopt slim directives in a short space of time, there are a couple of minor but important aspects that we have overlooked.
A proposed amendment, which I jointly initiated and which was originally accepted in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, aimed to obtain an extension to 2012 for certain urgently needed technical applications.
These were exceptions for armoured, fire brigade, rescue and other special purpose vehicles.
The number of applications is extremely minor and the damage to the environment negligible.
The original exemption for aircraft tyres, to which no time limit was originally attached, was also buried in the compromise package.
On this point, Parliament is about to take an irresponsible decision.
The aviation sector operates at physical limits, which is why the safety aspect must not be compromised and must even come before environmental aspects.
Industry cannot guarantee that we shall have alternatives available by 2010 which will meet the specific and extremely demanding safety standards for aircraft tyres.
I fail to understand how the Council could totally disregard this aspect, especially as the European Aviation Safety Agency was not consulted and there has been no follow-up assessment on it.
I am not in favour of more bureaucracy, but in such a safety sensitive sector as aviation, more careful attention should have been paid to the risks, especially as this is what we do with other regulations in the environmental sector where we often rush past the target.
I have received a letter from the European Cockpit Association, which represents 34 000 pilots in Europe and expresses great concern about this.
I wish to highlight this, because the pilots certainly cannot be suspected of engaging in industrial lobbying.
I would like to know from Commissioner Verheugen whether he is aware of this problem.
As I see it, this compromise is unacceptable if this aspect is disregarded.
