Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, I should first like to pick up on a comment you made towards the end of your speech.
There needs to be a sensible number of checks, as any legislation is futile and ineffective if its implementation is not monitored.
We should therefore join forces to persuade the Council to accept the proposals contained in the Markov reports, and to ensure that a sufficient number of checks are carried out.
To put it quite bluntly, our task must be to protect lorry drivers from their own managers, as it would appear that some are being forced, either directly or indirectly, to drive for excessively long periods of time.
This means that they pose a danger both to themselves and to everyone else.
At the same time, however, the rules need to be realistic and based on common sense.
I believe the Commissioner’s out-of-hand rejection of some of the proposals contained in the Markov report was somewhat over-hasty.
Our proposals are a great deal more sensible and easier to implement, in particular those relating to rules on breaks and daily rest periods.
These proposals should therefore be backed.
I do, however, share your views on the issue of lorries weighing less than 3.5 tonnes.
I agree with Mr Piecyk that they too pose a risk, but we must not forget the bureaucracy and costs that would be involved if the rules on tachographs and suchlike were also to apply to these types of commercial vehicle.
We should go back to the drawing board on this matter, and we must face facts, Commissioner; your average local milk float, circus caravan or tractor really has no need for a tachograph.
You said that we should avoid having too many derogations, yet the derogations we have proposed are based on nothing but a desire to be realistic and to apply common sense.
The conciliation procedure for the legislation on tachographs will be brought to a close sometime this autumn, and there would be little point in having a regulation that cannot be applied.
Based on my close contacts with industry, it is my personal belief that it is unrealistic to expect all freight forwarders to be able to install tachographs by August of this year, even if certain manufacturers are claiming that they could provide them.
I would therefore ask you to go along with our proposals and to set a sensible deadline.
