Mr President, perhaps you would be so kind as to have Mr Langen’s comment of ‘What a liar!’ recorded in the Minutes.
I would be grateful if that at least could be done.
It is apparent from the uproar among the Christian Democrat Members how hard it is to bear when one is publicly caught out.
Let me tell the House what our group regards as important.
We have, of course, had the same debate that Mr Poettering describes as having gone on in his own outfit.
In my outfit too, by which I mean our group, there is more than one opinion, but I do want to return to paragraph 16 of our joint resolution, because it was evident from Mr Poettering’s speech that we will soon have to debate Croatia.
The same fundamental preconditions apply to Croatia too: cooperation with the International Court is a .
It is clear from paragraph 16, though, that another fundamental precondition for any enlargement is that the European Union should have a constitution.
If that constitution is not the one that is proving unacceptable in its present form, then let me make it quite clear that enlargement needs more than just Nice and a few adjustments to it.
If the European Union is to be made fit for enlargement, we must keep on demanding a constitution for it, we must maintain that as our goal.
That applies in the case of Turkey, but let there be no misunderstanding: it also applies in the case of any other candidate for accession.
I should also like to know whether Mr Poettering would insist just as enthusiastically on these two conditions being coupled together if this debate were about Croatia.
I look forward to seeing whether he will, in that event, be just as passionate in demanding compliance with fundamental preconditions as he has been demanding it of Turkey.
That is a day to which I look forward.
I will sum up by saying that we, as a group, will be voting in favour of the resolution.
As regards the adjournment that Mr Brok envisages in the event of the answer not reaching us by midday today, let me say that, if Turkey really does put that on the agenda for the ratification debate in its parliament, then the result will be precisely what we have specified in the joint resolution.
The negotiations will then have to be suspended, perhaps even deferred, so an adjournment will not be necessary.
