.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what happens to people who are charged with a criminal offence, not in their own country, but in another EU Member State?
They inevitably face numerous problems and cannot but come up against many obstacles: the legal system is different from what it is at home.
Those, moreover, who find themselves accused while not speaking the language of the country in question are quite simply lost.
I myself had a particularly vivid experience of this sort of thing a number of years ago; it was in Genoa at the time of the major demonstrations against the G8 Summit.
Countless young people were first beaten up by the police in an unbelievably brutal fashion, only to end up shortly afterwards in Italian prisons, helpless and – in some cases – deprived of their rights for days on end.
The right to a fair trial, enshrined in Article 6 of the ECHR, turned out in this instance to lack any cutting edge.
Action on this by the EU is overdue.
What happened then must not happen again anywhere.
The obligation to extradite contained in the European arrest warrant must, once and for all, be balanced by clearly defined rights for the accused; in the EU, common minimum standards for rights in criminal proceedings must be laid down.
I, too, join in thanking the rapporteur and can state on behalf of our Group that we back her report, which contains numerous important amendments that are vitally significant to securing the rights of the accused.
It goes without saying that people charged with criminal offences must be informed of their rights in a language with which they are familiar; it is equally self-evident that this must be done in writing.
The right to legal representation must be guaranteed, as must the right to make use of the services of an interpreter.
The report’s demands for the mandatory translation of all documents and for the accused’s partner to be informed as a matter of course are equally significant.
I hope that a majority in this House will endorse the report tomorrow.
