.
Mr President, I too would like to warmly congratulate both rapporteurs, particularly on the way in which they structured their report, in which there is little room for us on the Legal Affairs Committee to make further improvements, although what we have proposed has been incorporated, and for that I am very grateful.
We, in the Legal Affairs Committee, will, though, be dealing with the issues of special interest to us in an own-initiative report, particularly the reform of legal instruments and of the lawmaking process, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, and the innovations in the justice system.
I believe that another issue that will demand our attention in the future is that of how we can guarantee coherence between parts I and III of the Constitution.
This opinion by the Legal Affairs Committee does of course concentrate on the rearrangement of the Union’s instruments of action, of which there is at present a veritable plethora: the Convention counted 35 different types of them.
I would like to pay tribute to its Vice-President, Giuliano Amato, who achieved great things as chairman of the Working Group on Simplification, something that all those present who were involved in that Working Group will be able to confirm.
They can all, in any case, take pride in their own contributions.
That much about this European Constitution is unique as has already been said; I also contend that something else that is unique is the amount of simplification that this Constitution has enabled us to achieve and the amount of bureaucracy it has enabled us to do away with.
I am thinking only of the constitutional reform processes that are going on in Austria and Germany at the moment.
I also see this as proof that the EU is not the bureaucracy it is always depicted as being; on the contrary it is very much an institution capable of reforming itself and has shown itself to be more so than not a few nation states.
Our legislative instruments will in future be simple and readily distinguishable from administrative instruments – and, when the Constitution is in place, much else about our lives will be so much easier.
I also believe that, although these changes are less spectacular than some of what is going on in the institutions, they play a very important part in making the EU more democratic and bringing it closer to the people.
