.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Council waited five years before delivering to Parliament its position for second reading stage, and I regard it as having demonstrated a great sense of responsibility in so doing, having waited for the results of the comprehensive assessment of the risks presented by phthalates, notably by DNP.
The EU’s assessments of the risks of DNP do not show any risk as being associated with its use by all categories of the population including infants.
Despite that, the Council, drawing on the study carried out by the Scientific Committee on Toxicity, Ecotoxicity and the Environment, extended restrictions on phthalates in children’s toys to the age range from 0 to 3 years.
The precautionary principle, on the basis of scientific results, was thereby sufficiently reflected in practice.
I therefore regard the Council’s proposal at second reading stage as even-handed and realistic.
It takes account of the need for our children’s health to be adequately protected and gives businesses in the toy industry clarity about their prospects.
It is also a good thing that we have been able to broker agreement between Parliament and the Council, and so I am addressing my fellow-Members of this House when I say that I am not entirely satisfied either with the way this debate has gone or with the result that has emerged from it.
Let me explain what I mean.
For a start, the approaches we are currently taking are characterised by an excessive emphasis on the precautionary principle.
What is the point of warning notices if there is nothing to warn against, and what is the point of bans on fragrances that are meant to neutralise smells?
If we carry on like that, we will end up as a breeding-ground for prohibitions and panic.
Contrariwise, although hardly any deaths are attributable to phthalates, 380 people a day die as a result of smoking, despite which we have not yet managed to ban smoking from the sittings of this House.
People puff away to the point where it makes one’s eyes water.
Secondly, by submitting these compromise amendments, we are abandoning our most fundamental function – the drafting and enactment of legislation – into the hands of the Commission.
What Commissioner Verheugen has said encourages me to have confidence in the Commission, and so I can do no other than urge continued adherence to the risk assessment with the Council’s position for second reading; then, I believe, we will end up with a positive outcome.
