Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, terrorism constitutes an extremely grave danger.
That is also the reason why we are dealing with it today and why we have no fewer than seven reports on the subject before us.
It is a problem that can only be solved jointly, together with the various governments in Europe.
During this debate, the thought frequently crossed my mind that one or other of the referenda in France and the Netherlands might have had a different outcome if some voters had been more aware of the problems that concern us, if it could have been made clear that such problems are simply impossible to solve unless Europe acts as one.
Perhaps the seven different reports and the numerous models are also an indication that we must focus on the essentials if we want people to understand this need for joint action and to consent to the pursuit of this approach.
It is not a matter of forever producing new proposals and new programmes – and thereby raising people’s hopes too – but rather of ensuring that people take note that what we are doing to combat terrorism is bearing fruit, that the EU’s Counter-Terrorism Coordinator is not only a public authority but is also working successfully with the Commission in the quest for greater efficiency, that Europol and Eurojust are becoming effective instruments and that democratic control is taking place.
It is absolutely imperative, as is stated in one of the reports, that we as a Parliament undertake to ensure that the instruments we introduce are subject to review during their lifetime.
Have they had an effect?
What effect have they had?
Are any specific measures dispensable?
Is it not perhaps more important to focus on essentials?
This brings me to the final point I feel it is important to make.
How trust can be squandered and how a key objective can be badly pursued are aptly illustrated by what we have on the table today under the heading of data retention, which is now being dealt with for the th time.
This is a case where action is being taken for its own sake, where people are being mollified with measures that may ultimately do nothing to enhance their security.
If that is so, it will not serve to persuade the public that Europe is important and beneficial and to make them accept the results of our work.
I should not like to be held responsible for the public perception of the European Union.
For the fifth or sixth time, I say that responsibility for this lies with the national governments, whose outburst of hyperactivity is designed to salve their consciences without actually achieving anything in terms of greater effectiveness.
