. –Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am persuaded of the importance of the communication strategy, which must, of course, be more than merely a technical procedure; it must also communicate the spirit and underlying concept of Europe if we really are to win the public over.
We simply have to explain to the public that nowhere in the world is there anything like this project in the development of which we share, that it brings them benefits, that it is all about cooperation, mutual understanding and peace, and that it is political, for only then will we be able to inspire them with any sort of enthusiasm for it.
What we need, then, above all, is to get information to people where they are, using different kinds of information stands, with which we have to make both Parliament and the Commission present to the nations.
I also think more use needs to be made of the opportunities afforded by schools, which would, if appropriate, involve modifying curricula.
I do not see this as propaganda, but as political education and information – in the best sense of the word – focussing on European political integration and on Europe’s understanding of itself.
I also agree with the suggestion that a hotline should be set up, that prizes should be awarded for good ideas, that more journalists should be invited and that now really is the time for us to put the European Constitution campaign centre stage.
There should be more debates in the Member States’ parliaments, and in these we too should participate.
There is one problematic aspect that I would like to mention.
We all agree that European information and ideas have to be transmitted via the media, but I am firmly convinced that the right thing to do is to continue – perhaps by means of joint projects – to support existing television stations, such as EuroNews, rather than to set up a Parliamentary TV channel, which I do not think is really going to appeal to people.
Instead, we should support, and concentrate our resources on, the other communication technologies available to us, with which people are already familiar, rather than pour money into a European Parliament broadcasting station, with which we would reach fewer people than if we were to opt for another, cooperative, approach.
