.
Mr President, the report that we are debating underlines the importance and strength of this House.
If we compare the draft directive as presented by the Commission with the compromise that we hope to adopt tomorrow, what becomes apparent is what this House is capable of achieving in the field of energy policy.
That this House has been able to exert considerable influence is attributable in no small degree to the unambiguous stance taken by the rapporteur.
The Commission’s original proposal tended to exemplify a planned economy in which the administration would have determined in which parts of their infrastructure businesses would be allowed to invest.
Parliament has succeeded in bringing out of this document an approach guided by competitiveness, which will do a far better job of addressing the problems of security of supply, something made all the more important by the fact that Europe’s current development is characterised by an increasing demand for electricity, which has caused renewed attention to be given to the need for new power stations.
The right conclusion to draw from the power cuts in Italy in 2003 would have been that the blame for these lay primarily with the lack of competition in the clapped-out infrastructure.
Particularly where public services are concerned, privatisation and competition are invariably two sides of the same coin.
The Commission took a step in the wrong direction by assuming, as it originally did, that state bodies could make good the lack of competition and would, in cases of doubt, be more competent to judge which parts of the Member States’ network infrastructure were in need of investment.
What, now improved, is left in the proposal for a directive itself shows how increased competition can be a winning strategy.
By promoting the conditions under which a wholesale market can function adequately and send appropriate price signals for investment in production capacity, the EU is taking the right approach to dealing with the issue of security of supply.
Its most important objective must be the creation of viable energy market structures in which businesses can make money, that being the right incentive for the creation of an investment climate in which infrastructure can come into being.
This directive is not one of those that are toxic to enterprise, and a good thing too.
We therefore agree with the rapporteur’s proposal and congratulate him too.
