Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, we know that today’s terrorists operate on an international scale, their violence crossing borders and destroying on a scale previously known only in time of war.
We also know that this is why we have, in theory, a new definition of security that combines elements of internal and external security, but we have to be clear about the fact that we have manifestly not yet succeeded in bringing together internal and external security in any practical and effective way.
It is also clear that there are some circumstances under which international responses are a better way of addressing this cross-border phenomenon, for example when the culprits are trained in country A, planted in country B, commanded by people in country C and the act is carried out in country D. That is why cross-border cooperation is needed; the President-in-Office of the Council himself quoted a number of examples involving neighbouring states where closer cooperation was needed, and I think that this closer cooperation should involve those involved with both internal and external policy.
It is more important to concentrate on this than to keep on tightening the screws at home and restricting the freedom of individual citizens.
Mr Wiersma quite rightly said that cooperation and exchange of data between secret services is much more important than the harassment of individual citizens of our Member States; it is also more effective.
It is also noteworthy that, whenever terrorist acts are committed, the Member States come together in Council to make fine statements, but nothing actually gets done.
This is true of almost all the Member States.
This ‘naming and shaming’ list is impressive, and it is right to include my own country, which, as Mrs Klamt mentioned, has not implemented the Arrest Warrant; I might add that it has also, for example, failed to transpose into law the convention on judicial cooperation in criminal matters of 29 May 2000, the protocol to the convention on judicial cooperation in criminal matters of 16 October 2001, the protocol of 27 November 2003 amending the Europol Convention, or to execute orders freezing assets or evidence dating back to 2003.
All these lists will be ineffective, and so I urge the nation states to at last do the homework to which they have agreed and get a grip on dealing with this cross-border phenomenon rather than constantly making new speeches to absolve themselves of blame whenever a terrorist act is carried out, after which – yet again – nothing happens.
In so doing, they are cheating the public, and we should make it clear that we will no longer put up with it.
