Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union’s added value involves us making peace, bringing security, securing growth, employment and competitiveness, and guaranteeing social security and environmental sustainability.
That is what we are working to do.
We have a new project to work on – no longer economic and monetary union, but competitiveness, growth and employment.
What do we have to do?
Firstly, we have to breathe life into the European social model of an environmentally-responsible market economy, making it tangible and implementing it, for we see the market not as an end in itself, but only as a means to an end.
Secondly, we have to make the internal market a domestic market for all.
Without an internal market in services, then, the new Lisbon strategy will remain unrealised.
Thirdly, we should make real the four freedoms for all Europe’s citizens, for businesses and for research.
Fourthly, we have to revitalise the Stability and Growth Pact.
What does that mean?
It means wanting to achieve the goals we have set ourselves in a consistent way; it means allowing the Commission to exercise the prerogatives conferred upon them; it means not making judges of criminals, it means doing our work at home rather than blaming Brussels.
The same social model applies also to the Lisbon strategy.
Where it is concerned, we must not repeat the mistakes we made with the Stability and Growth Pact.
Fifthly, we need more leadership from the Commission.
We therefore need a European action plan, a European timetable, a European catalogue of measures; the Commission needs to engage in dialogue with the Member States when drawing up national action plans and it is the Commission that must monitor them.
Mr President of the Commission, you are the trainer and captain of the Europe squad.
The governments of the Member States are the members of your team.
That is why all the Heads of State or Government – and not just the ministers for the internal market – must again make the Lisbon strategy for growth, competitiveness and employment, their own project.
Listening to today’s debate, I wonder what the ETUC wants to demonstrate against in the run-up to the summit in Brussels.
Against what you have put forward today?
Against competitiveness, growth and employment?
I call on the ETUC to call off the demonstration against growth, competitiveness and employment and do as the Socialist Group has earned our gratitude by doing – get back into the boat of growth, employment and competitiveness.
