. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday this House discussed the European driving licence, and I believe that part of the current policy is to press hard on the accelerator of the vehicle in which we are travelling, and this is something on which I should like very much like to congratulate Commissioner Potočnik.
He is also taking steps to ensure that the Lisbon agenda is implemented and promises great things, such as new jobs and higher incomes for our people.
On the other hand, there are Commissioners who are in favour of REACH and emissions trading, which would result in the relocation of large parts of our industry outside Europe.
I should therefore like to congratulate the Commissioner on having made a knowledge-based European Union his main priority, and on not merely following in the footsteps of the Sixth Framework Programme for Research and Technological Development, but intends to strike out on an entirely new path with the Seventh Framework Programme.
The aim of this is not only to implement the Lisbon criteria, but above all to target the Financial Perspectives at new, better and more secure jobs and to ensure that Europe can hold its own in international competition, as what a further priority should be to safeguard existing jobs.
Achieving this by 2010 will be a far from easy task.
Whether it takes place on the basis of a certain percentage of GDP or not, and however it is calculated, we regard doubling as a way to send out a signal, namely that on the one hand we are debating using 1% of GDP for the European Union, but that on the other hand we are talking about spending 3% on research.
It is apparent from this how large the gap is when it comes to dealing efficiently with issues relating to our future.
I believe that this goal – knowledge-based training and further training and life-long learning in connection with research findings at university, with a clear focus on new jobs – must be pursued, and that for this reason we must also demand of the Research Council that its representatives from business and research departments have a large say in shaping the goals, and that the political goals we fund with the Lisbon agenda are implemented accordingly and that we get a grip on bureaucracy.
We are stumbling from one accusation of fraud to another, and a great deal of criticism is currently being levelled at Europe.
Yet we should highlight the positive aspects, and the opportunities we are creating in Europe for our citizens.
I should therefore like to urge Mr Potočnik to come to Parliament immediately after the programme has been adopted in the European Commission on 6 April.
An extended Conference of Presidents will take place here, and the President of the Commission should join you in presenting the Seventh Framework Programme to the public.
We should take this opportunity to make a big impression on the public, and to show them that we take the Lisbon goals seriously and want to achieve them.
