Mr President, Commissioner Frattini, ladies and gentlemen, I really only wish to refer to one point, which relates to the announcement at the very end of your speech, Commissioner, that you intend to conduct two simulations in the near future.
May I ask you to inform Parliament of these in good time, because it is very important that we should cooperate in this matter.
Together with my honourable colleague Jerzy Buzek, I myself took part in a simulation exercise in Washington on 14 January.
That was Exercise Atlantic Storm, which was devoted to bioterrorism.
We then discussed the subject again in the framework of the New Defence Agenda in Brussels on 25 April.
We identified three main points, which we simply must spend more time discussing.
The first point was our realisation that cooperation must become far more intensive than we are used to at the present time.
This relates both to cooperation among the Member States and to Europe’s cooperation with the United States and with other relevant countries that ought to be involved.
This cooperation is extremely important, but at the present time it is still very sporadic in some cases.
It is not conducted systematically either, nor does its methodology give us any real cause for satisfaction with the present system.
It is not reliable, nor is it transparent, either in general terms or in relation to Parliament, and transparency is crucial if the defects of the system are to be identified and corrected.
That is one point.
The second inadequacy is in the field of prevention.
With specific reference to bioterrorism, I should like to ask you how far we have actually progressed to date on prevention with regard to vaccines.
In our simulation in Washington, we established that the availability of vaccines varies considerably between Member States of the EU.
This will be a source of conflicts, Commissioner, in the event of an attack, which we hope will not happen.
I should like to ask you to comment again on that point.
The last point I wish to mention relates to an entirely different aspect of this issue.
In our debates we should always take great care to distinguish between Islamic fundamentalists and Islam in general.
That would contribute greatly to our political discussion.
