.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to have the opportunity to discuss security research with the House today, and I should like to express my thanks for the recommendations and suggestions you have made to the Commission.
Security is an essential component of a number of different EU policy areas, including the common foreign and security policy and the area of freedom, security and justice.
At the same time, however, security is also a basic requirement for prosperity and growth and, as such, indispensable for achieving the economic policy goals of the Lisbon Agenda.
We need the best tools available if we are to be able to meet challenges to public safety, and we also need a strong knowledge and technology base.
Research at both national and European level is required to create such a base, and it was for this reason that the Group of Personalities made the following recommendation to the Commission one year ago; ‘technology alone cannot guarantee security, but security without technology is impossible’.
Security managers, industry and the public are among those who benefit from security research, and, in order to meet their high expectations, consistency must be achieved between its various facets.
Firstly, this research must actively help to create a social and business environment which is conducive to positive economic development and which lays the groundwork for prosperity, as this will ensure that it acts as a driving force for growth and employment in Europe.
It must also enhance the competitiveness of the European security industry, and in fact the European Security Research Programme will help create and extend a European market for security products.
A further aim of the Programme will be to focus on civil security matters.
Although research of this kind falls within the remit of the European Defence Agency, those working in the field of civil security research maintain close contacts with the latter in order to address the dual-use aspects of security technologies.
Finally, there is no escaping the fact that security research is a particularly sensitive sector with very specific requirements, which include intellectual property rights, the spread of information, cooperation with third parties – including those outside the EU – and the level of Community contributions.
Security research is one half of the two-fold thematic priority ‘Security and Space’, which falls within the specific programme ‘Cooperation’ under the Seventh Research Programme.
Current proposals provide for an annual budget of around EUR 500 million.
The Commission welcomes the fact that Parliament’s report calls for an annual budget of EUR 1 billion, as proposed by the Group of Personalities.
Security research under the Seventh Framework Programme will focus on the following areas; protection against terrorism and crime, security of infrastructures and utilities, border protection and restoring security in case of crisis.
These four topics will be supported by a number of horizontal areas, namely systems integration and interoperability, security and society and coordinating and structuring research.
The European Security Research Advisory Board will play a leading role in helping to develop a longer-term vision, as it will act as a forum where users and the Commission discuss the structure of the Research Programme.
As proposed in the report on security research, and in order to ensure that Parliament is properly represented, Vice-President Verheugen has invited five committees to appoint representatives to act as observers on the European Security Research Advisory Board.
Parliament has always backed the current Preparatory Action for Security Research, and this backing has been much appreciated.
It is for this reason that we welcome the report upon which this House will vote, and which was drafted by the Committee on Foreign Affairs together with the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
I should also like to thank Parliament for giving its consent to security research in general during the debate on the Seventh Framework Programme, and in particular with regard to funding for the Preparatory Actions.
The Commission will be happy to continue submitting reports on the implementation of the Preparatory Action until such a time as implementation of the European Security Research Programme becomes possible under the umbrella of the Seventh Research Framework Programme.
Security research will focus on activities that provide a distinct European added value compared to national measures.
This will allow us to take action at Community level that enhances the competitiveness of the security industry, allows us to progress towards the Lisbon goals and helps our society as a whole to feel and be safer.
I should like to thank the rapporteur once again for his work.
