Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to start by thanking my colleague Mr Queiró most warmly for his innovative report.
I am from southern Baden, in the centre of which is the Black Forest and where many important jobs do indeed depend on foreign tourists; this is particularly the case in rural areas, which are doing a successful job of moving from agriculture to the service economy.
I do believe, though, that there are many areas in which we do not necessarily need European rules and regulations, and, unlike many Members, I certainly do not propose to urge you, Commissioner Verheugen, to plan further regulations in this one.
What tourists in Europe need most of all are railways and roads that work.
I do not doubt that they also need airlines, even though some other Members of this House seem less than pleased with that idea.
If we attempt to tackle the synchronisation of holiday arrangements, then we must make the attempt – which we did not do in relation to the sunshine directive, that was made slightly weaker this morning – to make it clear, in the long term and very politely, to the Member States that the directive was conceived in consultation with the interested parties and is not to be seen as something forced upon them by Europe.
Something else that I believe will be of vital importance to Europe is the question of how the safety of facilities for tourists in Europe may be guaranteed.
We have all heard from people who have had adverse experiences in them, and nine of the ten victims of the fatal accident in Sölden in the Tyrol came from my electoral district.
It seems likely that tourism in Europe will suffer more as a result of accidents like that happening more frequently than from this or that part of the directive not being transposed.
Hence my appeal to you, Commissioner, in the hope that we may be able to take such action in relation to safety as the European Union is able to take, and, moreover, may encourage diversity in European tourism, for therein lies its strength.
