Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their report.
I think they have done an excellent job of work, bearing in mind the angle from which they approached it and their representation of farmers’ interests.
It is rather unfortunate that this resolution takes no account of the points of view of the trade or development committees, and I hope we will be able to do that when the House comes to debate and consider the Regulation.
We should certainly ensure that we are in line with our obligations to the WTO, and that we comply with its Appellate Body’s decision, and I very much endorse the Commissioner’s proposal.
Although, as many Members have indicated, changes are needed, it generally tends in the right direction.
I have tabled Amendment No 37, which I hope will be supported.
It explicitly reiterates our support for the ‘Everything but Arms’ initiative, and, in that context, for the reforms to which reference has been made.
Perhaps I might also be permitted to respond in a small way to Mr Sturdy’s interesting comment that he intends to abstain, or refrain from voting, on the grounds that he, while being a member of the Agriculture Committee, is also a producer for the sugar market.
Whilst I see this as cause for rejoicing, I do find it remarkable, as he is also a coordinator on the Committee on International Trade.
Perhaps he should reconsider his position and, in that capacity, perhaps reflect more the position of the trade committee than that of the agriculture committee.
It could be that this would help the House as a whole to evaluate what is before it now.
Please allow me, by way of conclusion, to again ask the Commissioner when and how she plans to actually submit her actual proposal for the trading of quotas in the Member States.
I got the impression from what you said that you have some doubts, and was myself not entirely sure what line you took on the suggestion made in the resolution that this should be abandoned and replaced by a fund.
Perhaps you could say something more on the subject.
