Mr President, Mr PresidentinOffice of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by warmly thanking Mrs Malmström for the excellent cooperation.
We did not see eye to eye on every aspect of the first draft, but Mrs Malmström managed to incorporate a great many of our ideas and to draft compromise amendments.
This has resulted in a very broad consensus, and I should like to thank her on this score.
I believe that the report we now have before us achieves a good balance between the views of those who believe that we should regard Russia first and foremost as a strategic partner, and of those who believe that democracy and human rights must be the focus of our relations with the country.
I see no contradiction between these two approaches; in my opinion, it would be unfeasible to emphasise one and ignore the other.
Furthermore, I believe that this is the message that emerges from this report.
There can be no question that Russia is a strategic partner for the EU, but we would have preferred to see it actually acting as such during the events in Ukraine.
Ukraine would also have been glad had this been the case, but unfortunately it was still too early for such a thing.
We would be delighted to have Russia as a strategic partner with regard to policies on Belarus, and if this were to happen there would surely be no limit to our success in developing democracy.
The same applies to South Caucasus, and we would also be glad to have Russia as a strategic partner with regard to Georgia.
Yet such strategic partnerships must not be conducted on Russia’s terms, or even on Europe’s terms; they must be conducted in accordance with the terms laid down by the peoples of Georgia, Ukraine and Belarus.
In my opinion, therefore, this is precisely the direction in which we must move.
We must constantly remind Russia that we want to act as its partner, but the basic requirements for such a partnership must remain unaltered.
Commissioner, you said that we must speak with one voice, and it is my belief that this House is prepared to do so.
Should you run into any problems when dealing with the Council, I would advise you to ask this House for its assistance, as we will give you our full backing.
