.
Mr President, with seven reports today, this Parliament is trying to arrive at a comprehensive common position on terrorism and to organise the fight against that terrorism.
This is a monumental task that we are undertaking.
Allow me to specify what it entails.
The task is to win a struggle against adversaries who cast aside all human qualities, break every rule and every law, disregard national and moral boundaries, know no restraint and fanatically pursue the criminal aim of abolishing human freedom.
Our goal is to win this war without sacrificing our own decency, casting aside our humanity, betraying our own laws or endangering personal freedom within our own domestic territory.
That is the task, and it is incredibly difficult.
Even for war, common rules have been developed over the centuries, but here we are faced with adversaries lurking in the shadows, imperceptible and transcending all borders.
This makes firm resolve and a common approach essential, but it also requires us to realise that we must not let our sensitivity to our own people’s needs and rights be deadened at the sound of the word ‘terrorism’ or give for the use of any and every instrument in the war on terrorism.
Mr Alvaro, one of the rapporteurs, raised this point.
I believe it is particularly important to emphasise that fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law do not seem to be adequately protected by the provisions of this draft.
There is another aspect, however, that confronts us with an entirely new situation.
The whole González report is based on the assumption that the European Constitution will enter into force.
It builds on the foundations of the Charter of Fundamental Rights, parliamentary codecision, open legislative processes, the solidarity clause, the right to determine the disclosure and use of one’s own personal data, parliamentary scrutiny, judicial review and the dissolution of the pillar structure in favour of a unified Europe.
This is not wishful thinking or a dream that may be set to crumble before our eyes.
No, it is an absolute, imperative and indispensable prerequisite for this package of measures and its legitimacy and for the defence of fundamental rights.
Without this prerequisite, without the European Constitution, we are in no position to approve this catalogue of measures, because there is no guarantee that the balance between justice, security and freedom will be preserved.
Add to this the fact that, on the issue of converting Europol into an agency and of transferring the Counter-terrorism Coordinator to the staff of the Commission, there is still no more on the table than our request – no consent, no explanation – and it becomes clear that we run the risk of upsetting the balance here and jeopardising our citizens’ freedom.
