.
Mr President, first of all, may I beg leave to ask you to extend a return invitation to the Council and the Commission, to Mr Schmit and Mr Barroso, to conduct a trialogue with us here in this House.
The directly elected representatives of the European people should certainly play a leading role in such negotiations, which should be conducted with the public good in mind.
Secondly, let me stress that the Commission and the Council have set themselves the objective of implementing the Lisbon Strategy, the goals of which are growth and employment.
Growth means an increase in net incomes for everyone, whether students, employees or pensioners.
Growth means an increase in take-home pay at the end of the month.
How can we achieve that?
By creating more jobs, because more employment means, in turn, that more revenue will be available for redistribution.
This is what makes the Barroso Commission so very socially responsible, and Parliament is one hundred per cent behind its social aims.
I am therefore curious to discover whether the Council will be prepared, and will be bold enough, to increase the allocation of resources to the Lisbon Strategy, whether we shall see not only a doubling of the research budget but also signs of serious intent to implement it, efforts at making additional resources available as part of the Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme, and efforts in the fields of telecommunications, infrastructure and other areas to ensure that higher net incomes are credited to people’s accounts at the end of the month.
We should also ensure that savings are made.
I thank the Council for setting a new standard in the European Union through the Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
We should also aim to ensure that the average civil servant’s pay is based on the basic remuneration of MEPs.
There should also be consistency here between the Council and Parliament and, last but not least, between them and the Members of Parliament.
There should not be excessively wide disparities.
Yes, savings have to be made, but on the basis of clear objectives.
