Mr President, Commissioner, I am sure that no one in this House would hesitate to agree that data protection is a key task.
Yet there can be no question that prioritising the fight against crime is equally important, particularly in this day and age.
It is extremely difficult to weigh up data protection against opportunities to fight crime, and I am genuinely open and ready to discuss this matter.
With regard to this draft report, however, I must say that no definite answer has yet been provided to a question that was asked quite clearly several months ago, namely whether there is actually any need for this report.
I can therefore fully understand why all the groups within the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs believe – as I, indeed, very certainly do – that the scheme that is being pursued is absurd.
We need a clear answer from the Commission.
If these measures are necessary, then we can discuss them.
Yet if they are unnecessary, which I currently believe to be the case, then we must do everything in our power to stop them.
What worries me is that this process will go on and on, and that tomorrow, or the day after tomorrow, or at some other point in the future, we will be presented with a proposal that we will carry on debating, and that there will no longer be any way to escape the process, even though every Member of this House believes it to be misguided.
I would therefore be extremely interested to hear the Commission’s views on this.
We have been discussing Lisbon and our desire to see less regulation, but we are well on the way to regulating something that is absurd and that no one wants apart from the four Member States which backed the initiative.
Furthermore, given that all groups in the House are in agreement and have expressed their concerns on this matter, I would expect the Commission to explain to the House whether – and, if so, when – it intends to present a proposal and what the substance of this proposal will be.
I do not want to wait around too long before we are told what we will be agreeing to, and who will bear the costs.
Mrs Cederschiöld asked a short while ago who would foot the bill – will it be the public, industry, or those who called for these measures, namely the Member States behind the initiative?
Additional questions can then be dealt with at a later date.
