– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, none of us can get these images out of our minds – these images of suffering, death, destruction, mud and tears – and the cries for help, the cries of despair and lamentation, not to mention the stories told by the victims, are still echoing in our ears.
We are witnesses to one of the greatest of natural disasters and know that it is not the only one in the world.
We live in a global world, faced with global responsibilities, and we are in search of global solutions.
We have to acknowledge our increasing dependence on one another and that we are closer to one another than day-to-day political polemics and debate would have us believe.
First of all, I would like to thank those people who, even though affected by the disaster and with needs of their own, helped many citizens of our Member States.
I would like to thank the millions of donors, who, rather than averting their gaze, are looking to see what they can do; who are not merely lamenting the disaster, but doing something about it.
I would also like to thank the public services, the aid organisations and the volunteers, who set their hands to the task immediately.
I do also have a request.
I would ask the Commission to make haste to put the projects out to tender, so that the co-funding can be secured and all offers of help can be coordinated.
Secondly, I would ask that Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner’s request should not simply be filed away in a drawer, for we were all taken by surprise by the violence and extent of the catastrophe.
Even at home, in our own states, we can do more in the way of crisis management, coordination and prevention.
We still have to learn what could be done better.
Thirdly, I would like to ask the Commission whether, in the interests of long-term support for its aid measures to the worst-hit countries, it is contemplating making use of the Regulation on a scheme of generalised tariff preferences for the period from July 2005 to the end of 2008, and, if that is the case, by how much does it envisage the preferences for the benefit of the affected countries being extended?
