. – Mr President, Bolivia, of all countries, a country named after its liberator and first president Simon Bolivar, a man symbolic of Latin America as a whole, is in a state of ongoing crisis.
Arriving in the La Paz basin, one is immediately struck by the glaring discrepancy between the beauty of the country and the incredible depression that hangs over the people.
Someone once described Bolivia as ‘a beggar on a golden throne’, a throne at one time mainly founded upon ore, gold and other minerals, but now, increasingly, upon crude oil and natural gas.
In view of the obvious risk that the country could become helpless in the hands of political and economic powers, we are of course obliged to do what we can to help keep it stable.
Its neighbours include such major countries as Brazil, in respect of which my colleague Mr Deß has done such exemplary work by ensuring that measures are taken to ensure stability, particularly for agriculture, small-scale farmers and independent farms, along with the slow growth of a small business sector.
This is the approach we must take in Bolivia too, or else the country faces the threat of disintegration, with all the resultant consequences for the political map of Latin America.
It is for that reason that we must work with all the means at our disposal towards a peaceful transition by way of new elections monitored by the international community, but above all towards the country’s speedier recovery, which will involve strengthening small farmers and small and medium-sized businesses, failing which the country, long at the mercy of conglomerates and conspiracies, risks generating conflicts that would suck its neighbours, including Brazil – particularly its Mato Grosso state – into their maelstrom.
It is for that reason that this House needs to finalise a strategy for Latin America.
Our Christian Europe forged the two continents of North and South America; there may one day be a bitter price to pay for our present neglect of the latter.
