.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with the warmest of thanks to Mr Queiró for his report, and for his enthusiasm and commitment to foreign tourism, to which it testifies.
Commissioner Verheugen quite rightly pointed out that the rapporteur was right to describe tourism as something that can create jobs, for which it has enormous potential, but I would ask him to admit that tourism is a field that the Commission has neglected up to now.
It is for that reason that I hope that he has read the report’s demands and will later tell us which of them he endorses.
Let me list five things that are called for: the first is an international advertising campaign to attract more tourists from third states to Europe, one that would have to form part of a support package for tourism and be mounted in consultation with the tourist industry.
The EU’s embassies overseas can help with this.
Secondly, in order for consumers to be better protected and informed, there is a need for the classification of hotel and restaurant standards to be standardised across the EU.
Thirdly, I believe there to be a need for the uniform application of VAT at the reduced rate to restaurant services in all the Member States; this is not something that should be done in different ways in different places.
Fourthly, national holidays need to be synchronised in order to avoid traffic jams on motorways and overloading of holiday destinations.
There needs – and this is my fifth point – to be better coordination of emergency plans between state and private organisations at both the national and European levels, to give tourist protection in the event of natural disasters and against health risks.
Those are just five points that I have picked out of Mr Queiró’s wide-ranging report.
Fine words butter no parsnips, as they say; it is no use saying that we will promote tourism and that the Commission is right behind the idea if nothing ends up happening, so, Commissioner, perhaps you would be so kind as to tell us something about all the initiatives by the Commission that you intend to support.
It is you who have the powers, the Commission that can work within the framework of the industrial policy, it is you who can work within the framework of regional policy, and there are many powers and responsibilities that you can combine for the benefit of tourism, so, Commissioner, I ask you to do something about it.
