Mr President, I would point out to Mr Kusstatscher that prevention and protection – not in people’s leisure activities, but in their workplaces – is a matter of concern to us too, but, if the Commission and the Council have their way, it is evident that building firms will in future have to certify that ultra-violet rays are safe for those of their workers who work in the open air.
Time-consuming programmes of action to deal with sunburn will be devised; lifeguards in open-air swimming pools will virtually have to wrap themselves up, and serving staff in hostelries with gardens will evidently have to carry not just trays but also a variable parasol or two.
What is put together here on – and let this be borne in mind! – 42 whole pages, is a burden on businesses, puts jobs at risk and is a cause of justified outrage on the part of the public.
The rapporteur, Mr Őry, has done a very good job of work in presenting a compromise in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, where it gained a majority, albeit an extremely narrow one.
What we want to achieve is for the Member States themselves to decide what to do with this ‘sunshine directive’.
By means of this proposal, we have run up the flag of realism and signalled our opposition to overweening bureaucracy.
Surely, the failure of the referenda in some Member States – while others hesitate to move on with the decision-making process – shows that the public will accept the European Union only if we concentrate on the essentials, take the issues really seriously and make use of our powers and responsibilities.
Mrs Lynne is right to say that we risk bringing the EU into disrepute.
Over ten years have passed since this document on optical radiation was given its first reading.
The former version of it bears next to no relation to the present one.
It is irrelevant – and cannot be anything else – to say that we are going to protect workers in the same way right across Europe when we are well aware that the climate zones in our countries differ enormously.
Workers have themselves learned from years of experience what they can and must do about optical radiation.
Some can cope with the sun extremely well and other cannot at all.
They come to their own individual solutions, and in that we must not interfere.
Mrs Oomen-Ruijten is right to say that what we have seen here is a lack of willingness to compromise on the part of the Council, whose attitude, exemplified not least by this abstruse new proposal, really is far removed from reality.
Needless to say, the Federal Government still in office in Germany has gone along with it.
We, the MEPs belonging to the CDU and CSU, will be consistent and reject a Common Position that does not guarantee subsidiarity.
Let us protect the sun from the European Union and its mania for rule-making!
