.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a globalised economy calls for globalised politics.
A stronger United Nations is the right response to the challenges that the international community faces in the 21st century.
I am glad of the general agreement in the House, and grateful to Mr Laschet for his report.
We may be in different groups, but we take a similar view of things.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament see it as important that reforms should not be limited to the institutions, but should also aim to strengthen the UN in the performance of its tasks and in its mission.
One prominent objective for the coming years is to achieve the Millennium Development Goals; we have to succeed in halving the incidence of poverty, illiteracy and the major diseases by 2015.
If we manage that, we will have made a contribution to the world’s peace and stability.
The UN’s role in peace missions and in conflict management needs to be enhanced.
A large number of proposals have been made as to how this might be done, ranging from an anti-terrorist convention to the delegation of the rights contained in Chapter VII of the UN Charter to recognised regional organisations such as the African Union or the European Union.
Why should peoples not resolve the conflicts on their own continents themselves, before the men in blue helmets arrive from elsewhere?
Let me turn to the need for stronger institutions.
The Security Council is the sensitive issue here.
We are agreed that Europe should, in the long term, have a seat on it.
It may be that a mechanism is already being devised for its non-permanent members whereby the European Council would mandate Member States to perform this duty on the European Union’s behalf and in consultation with its institutions.
The UN also needs to be made more democratic.
The demand is also being made for a Parliamentary Assembly within the UN; let us seize the opportunity, for it is one that does not come often.
Now is the time for the package to be wrapped up!
