Mr President, Mr Trichet, Commissioner Almunia, I would like to start by thanking you, Mr Trichet, for your work over the past year.
At a time when the Stability and Growth Pact has been under fire, you contended in splendid fashion for the stability of the euro, facing down the Member States, the Council and the Commission too.
For that you have the warm thanks of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, which wishes to encourage you to keep on doing the same thing, for things are not getting any easier.
The Stability Pact was softened up, loosened up, or – according to some – abolished; that is something on which I do not propose to comment right now.
We are, of course, currently seeing to what extent it is applied, and what effect it has, in Italy, and there are doubts in some people’s minds about that.
What has happened over recent months has not, though, done away with the risk of inflation, which has, on the contrary, increased.
To Mrs Wagenknecht, who seems, unfortunately, to have a more pressing appointment to go to, and who spoke of ‘new poverty’, I would say that real poverty is present when money loses its value.
As you, Mr Trichet, said, we should, in future, take constant care to require the reforms at national level, which are so necessary.
I would have liked the Commission to respond appropriately when your own country’s Mr de Villepin proposed the eventual establishment, alongside the ECB, of an economic and financial government, which would be responsible for both economic growth and job creation.
This is the logical second step.
The first was to fundamentally change the Stability and Growth Pact or do away with it altogether, and the second step, now, is to give the European Central Bank equal responsibility for both price stability and other measures, not least for economic growth and job creation.
I can do no other than warn of the need for the nation states to do their homework, for the most irresponsible thing we can do at present – and it is something I hear from members of the other political group – is to suggest to people that there is no need for change, that no more than a different policy on the part of the ECB is needed, and that social standards can remain as they are.
That is irresponsible, particularly as those who indulge in this sort of talk, are those who ought most to be aware of the fact that reforms at national level are more urgently needed than ever.
