– Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank my colleague Mr Őry for his outstanding report – his first for this House, and one that persuades by its clear and penetrating depiction of the problems that exist in the new Member States.
Congratulations, Csaba!
In the new Member States, around five million people are out of work, and the number is increasing, particularly among older people, women, single parents and workers without adequate skills.
People with disabilities are marginalised; their chances of employment and of a secure income are diminishing constantly.
My colleagues Mr Cabrnoch and Mr Libicki are quite right to point out that such situations also occur in the EU’s old Member States.
It is apparent from analysis of the situation in the new Member States that the transition from an economy directed by the state to a social market economy makes major structural problems inevitable.
There is work for all to do in ensuring that this problematic period is of only short duration.
Unemployment and deficient education are among the major obstacles to inclusion in society.
As the community of our Member States is founded upon social values, it must defuse this social timebomb.
I agree with Mrs in 't Veld that job creation must have the highest priority; jobs, jobs, jobs, are what we urgently need.
One way in which this may be accomplished is by decisive economic reforms that create favourable conditions for businesses.
Financial incentives will have the same effect – tax breaks, wage cost subsidies and the cutting of social security contributions spring to mind.
Small and medium-sized enterprises are in particular need of support, as is the case in all our Member States; they are potential creators of jobs and apprenticeships, for every single one of which we have to fight, for they are urgently needed.
The social partners have a crucial part to play in combating exclusion, supplementing the efforts of the public and private sectors, and dialogue between them must be stepped up.
I see the foundation of trade unions and employers’ associations as a good idea, for both are needed.
It is only when each has a large number of members that they will be enabled to take action, engage in dialogue and achieve a great deal.
Exclusion is generally associated with inadequate education and training, and so these need to be improved, while, at the same, disadvantaged sections of the population need to be included.
Let us use the experience we have already gained and involve businesses in this.
The last point I would like to make is that the fight against social exclusion is made all the more effective the more the Member States and social partners share information – including both innovative and time-tested practices – with one another.
Like our rapporteur, Mr Őry, I regard this as a priority objective.
