.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe that there is anything substantial to be added to what has been said by the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Asselborn, and by the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso.
Both the Commission and the Council have described the essential steps that have to be taken.
We in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament can say that we endorse all these initiatives, and that this House must grant all the financial and organisational support that is needed.
I think everyone – including Mr Deva, who has just spoken – has made it clear that, as far as Parliament is concerned, both the economic resources and the organisational measures are guaranteed.
I can therefore limit myself to making a few basic observations on this disaster, which has made it apparent that we live in a global village and that the solidarity that is self-evidently necessary in the world in which we live must be supranational in character.
That is why it is important that we revisit, and establish in our own minds, the decisive importance of the role played by the EU itself alongside the Member States, for it is in the European Union that Europeans’ willingness to join in supranational action manifests itself, and that this international action organised under the European Union’s aegis results in action being taken across continents is a necessary consequence of the fact that a disaster of this kind knows no geographical limit to its impact, afflicting not only the people who live where it strikes, but also people from every country, including from the European Union.
New forms of organisation are thus called for, and they are coming into being.
One of them has been proposed by the Commission: the combination of a rapid-response unit, rapid-response forces, and technical expertise, organised under the leadership of the European Union.
That is an intelligent proposal and one that is deserving of support.
It has been proposed that financial instruments be organised alongside those of the nation states, and that is something we cannot do without, but it is equally clear that people like Europeans, from a highly mobile society, cannot do without consular help in such a situation.
So it is that the development of a joint consular system, potentially paving the way for a shared diplomatic service, is something good to come out of this debate.
By way of a concluding comment, let me say that, in amidst the flood of information I have received over the past few days, there is one outstanding piece of news.
A few months ago, in this House, we commemorated the victims of the terrorist attack in Beslan.
I learned this morning that the people of Beslan have collected a million roubles – amounting to EUR 30 000 – as an expression of solidarity with the tsunami’s victims.
In a situation like theirs, there can be no greater example of humane conduct, of solidarity, indeed of human greatness.
I think we should take this opportunity to express our utmost respect for the people of Beslan, who have themselves been victims.
