.
Mr President, Commissioner FerreroWaldner, Commissioner Wallström, ladies and gentlemen, Russia is very important in terms not only of our security and stability, but also of our economic and ecological development.
We want close cooperation with it in the widest variety of spheres.
Notwithstanding the many strategic reasons for this partnership, however, it must be based on respect for the European understanding of values.
It may well be the case that parts of the EU are dependent on Russian energy and raw materials, but this must not mean that we betray our democratic and human rights principles.
We must set an example and involve Russia in matters relating to the rights of minorities, in particular with regard to the protection of Russian minorities in the Baltic.
A comprehensive peace process must be set in motion in Chechnya, with the help of all democratic forces in society.
Military action is more than merely a dead end; it is a disaster, and not only that, but a crime.
The Stalin and Brezhnev eras may be things of the past, but the postCommunist tsarist approach of the Kremlin, with its restrictions on freedom of the press and information, renders a peace process in Chechnya impossible.
Our only hope is the development of civil society.
What we want is a political solution, and one that is reached with the assistance of the EU.
I was present when the handing down of sentences to Mr Khordokovsky and Mr Lebedev began in Moscow, and this sentencing, which is still in progress, is shocking evidence of the contempt with which the EU’s fundamental values – the rule of law, democracy and human rights – are being treated.
What other explanation can there be for these two people attending the preliminary hearing under heavy guard and in an iron cage, as though they were dangerous predators?
Large parts of the indictments were reproduced word for word in the grounds for the ruling, right down to the mistakes.
The breakup of Yukos is an economic death sentence, and Khordokovsky is not being given a fair chance in this political show trial.
Is this Russia worthy of being a strategic partner of the EU?
Proceedings in accordance with the rule of law are inseparable from human rights under any regime, and that is also the case in empires.
