Mr President, let me immediately pick up on the point raised by Mr Elles and referred to by my colleague Mr Swoboda, that being that both Europe and the United States bear a great responsibility in global terms and that it is only by acting together that we will enable the less well-off countries to be integrated into the global economy.
I would like to congratulate the Commission on its statement, for it has taken a bold step.
Politically, we have had a rough ride, and it was for a long time unclear what, if anything, we could achieve in the course of preparations for this summit.
Written and oral statements have been made, and these take us a step further.
By these I mean particularly the proposals for cooperation in the negotiation of specific agreements, in the field of new technologies and, most especially, in research and safety.
All these things are right, proper and important.
I am especially glad that the Commission has ventured for the first time to use the term ‘transatlantic market’ and also to find a way of describing what it is – still rather cryptically, it has to be admitted, but it is going down the right road.
This is something that this House has frequently addressed in its resolutions.
We are very well-advised to acknowledge the reality of what we already have, which is an integrated market.
I might add that the OECD study to which Mr Elles referred not only says that we will achieve growth if we press on with integrating the market only within Europe – from which, according to the study, Europe will derive greater benefit than the United States – it also says that we must do this throughout the world, which is an extremely important point.
If we benefit from this, then the other countries will do likewise, and so we should take very careful note of what this study has to say.
I would, though, like to congratulate the Commission on the study it initiated.
It is a good job of work and will enable us to make progress.
Now for my last point: here, too, we see the Commission taking on board a proposal from this House; in this instance, that we should work together more closely in the sphere of inter-parliamentary exchange.
Mr Jonathan Evans will be saying more about that later.
It is an important point, and I propose that we should have further discussions of everything the Commission is proposing – which the Summit will, I hope, take on board – in an inter-parliamentary context.
