.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity to implement fundamental reform of the United Nations is an historic one, one in which Europe can and must play an important part, and so it is a very good thing that there is a large majority in this House giving its backing to the High Panel’s report on reform of the UN and to Kofi Annan’s report, which is derived from it.
Implementation of this report and completion of the reform are matters of importance in terms of world politics, and I was very glad to hear that both the Council and the Commission are committed to this.
There are four major and crucial aspects of this reform in which we must make progress.
The first is the reform and extension of the UN Security Council, accompanied by the clear and unambiguous definition of the UN’s exclusive right to exercise force.
It would be a very good thing if the discussion on the expansion of the Security Council were to enable Europe to get a seat on it, resulting in a real structural change in the way in which Europe’s policies are represented.
The second is the process of transforming international development policy into an international structural policy in the true sense of the word.
The essential means to this end is the reinforcement and upgrading of the United Nations’ Economic and Social Council, ECOSOC; and close cooperation between it and the Group of Twenty really could plant the seed and lay the foundation of a new World Economic Council, which would be capable of steering the global economy in the direction of a sustainable policy.
Thirdly, the UN’s environmental programmes need to be transformed into a real UN environmental organisation, one that is sustainable and well organised.
This is a major task.
The fourth point is an important one: the Human Rights Commission should be upgraded to a permanent council on human rights elected by the General Assembly.
Security policy, development policy, environmental policy, human rights policy – these are the four pillars in which we need to make progress.
