– Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bonde said that he wanted equal representation from both sides, but this Parliament decided to support the constitution by a majority of 80-90%, and 52% of the population, through their parliaments and in referenda, have already said ‘yes’ to it!
This should not be forgotten.
Moreover, it is clear – and this point has been made by many speakers – that there is a mixed bag of reasons for the ‘no’ vote and that the constitution itself is the least significant of them all.
They include the unpopularity of national policies, fear of globalisation and unemployment, as well as a desire to give us the message: ‘you have gone too far in terms of both internal legislation and enlargement, and quite a lot more besides’.
Today’s Europe has been examined and criticised, rightly or wrongly.
But it has been examined and found wanting, and this is something we should take on board.
That is why it is extremely important to have a period of reflection, in which we show ourselves to be restrained and moderate, and make it clear, by adopting appropriate policies, that we can win back the hearts of the people if we hold a dialogue of this kind.
I believe that we need this time for a suspension of the ratification process, so that we do not accumulate even more no’s on these false premises.
In this way we can then move forward during the Austrian Presidency, at an appropriate time, not with an intergovernmental initiative, but perhaps with a convention that could scrutinise the results of this reflection – the results of the period of reflection, not of the constitution.
I also think it is extremely important that we also present this in positive terms; according to the constitution, this European Union means nothing other than involving the citizens, giving the citizens rights, ushering in more democracy, giving the national parliaments more rights, and enabling us to act on the global stage in such a manner as to guarantee our internal and external security.
It also means that we can make it clear that Europe is not part of the globalisation problem, but part of the answer to it, and that for these reasons we are capable of winning back the hearts of our citizens for our policies.
It is this course of action that I commend to you.
If I may, I will add a footnote.
All of this will also cause a paradigm shift in Germany, because Germany will once again be on the side of the small countries, which is important for the identity of this Europe.
