.
Mr President, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I wish to thank all those – including you, Commissioner Kallas – who have supported our request for a debate on a country whose citizens need us alongside them more than ever.
Forty-six years ago today, in Lhasa, Chinese troops crushed the Tibetans’ peaceful protests against the armed occupation of their country, killing 87 000 of them, and arresting thousands of others.
To date, over a million Tibetans have died as a result of hunger, torture and execution, and over three-quarters of their shrines, temples and monasteries have been systematically destroyed.
While 10 March is a day of mourning, it is also a day of resistance to enforced silence, to the violation of human rights, to the suppression of cultural, religious and human identity.
Today, as every year, Tibetan flags are being hoisted all around the world, in 2 000 cities and municipalities in the European Union, over 650 of them in Germany – my own country – alone.
The day after tomorrow, in Berlin, we will be joining thousands of campaigners for human rights, including an increasing number of young people and political office-holders, remembering the victims before the Brandenburg Gate.
This House has adopted significant resolutions that have given the Tibetans courage, among them the outstanding Romeva Report on arms exports, in which the Council was urged to maintain the embargo on the sale of armaments to China – an appeal backed up by our joint resolution on the Geneva Human Rights Convention.
The day after tomorrow, the 3 000 delegates to the Chinese People’s Congress will be assembling in Beijing.
They will be adopting an anti-secession law, intended to back up a possible military strike against Taiwan.
To endorse such a confrontation, even if only indirectly, is a fatal and irreparable error, as we, Commissioner, have pointed out time and time again, calling at the same time for the continuation of dialogue between representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese authorities.
It is not enough to announce, immediately before important state visits, that talks are in progress, only for them, again and again, to prove fruitless.
In his message on the occasion of the anniversary of the popular uprising, His Holiness the Dalai Lama declares his determination to find a solution that both takes account of Chinese interests and enables the Tibetan people to live in peace, freedom and dignity.
Our Parliament’s Tibet Intergroup, composed of representatives from all the political families, will continue to campaign for human rights campaigners, NGOs, members of other national parliaments to be heard in this House again and again.
In terms of our solidarity with the Tibetan people and their justified claims, there is no more appropriate day than today, 10 March.
And so, to those of us who join in showing our colours in cities, towns and parliaments, ‘Tashi delek’ – good fortune.
