. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this compromise is, in part, the work of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, and we will be voting in favour of it tomorrow.
This new directive covers employed persons and self-employed professionals in what are termed the regulated professions, that is to say, those in which skills are attested by qualifications, ranging from architects to heating engineers by way of nurses and pharmacists.
While incorporating ECJ rulings and making them permanent, it will also simplify matters, and that is precisely what we wanted – a balance between the right to free movement and settlement in Europe on the one hand and secured standards for professional qualifications and in consumers’ interests on the other.
As the Commissioner has just said, this directive can be seen as one of the services directives, and it is indeed meant to make the internal market simpler.
In terms of European internal market policy, then, it is the positive side of the coin, and my description of it as ‘positive’ is meant by way of comparison with the notorious services directive.
For the benefit of those who do not yet believe me, let me quote: ‘Migrant professionals shall be made subject to the same conditions for exercising a profession as the nationals of the host Member State’, or, even more specifically: ‘The qualification requirements of the host country must continue to be met’.
That shows how important it is to us that the rules and regulations of the destination country or host country should be taken seriously and should not be allowed to be devalued in other areas.
We have achieved a great deal; among other things, we have managed, together with all our fellow Members, to get it stipulated that checks are carried out in the destination country, which may, if necessary, require guarantees, liability insurance, or even further training.
The polemics of various newspapers provided for a regrettable interlude and resulted in some people being unsettled.
Between first and second readings, there was division within the Council, which – and I stress that I am talking about the Council as a whole rather than about Luxembourg – showed itself somewhat hesitant.
It is not true to say that three months of evening classes are enough to equip heating engineers to do the job.
Nevertheless, despite the polemics of certain newspapers and certainly of certain trade associations, we have the result we wanted.
It is practicable; it has a significant effect on our chances in the internal market and on the public’s opportunities.
We should now do everything we can to make good use of them and to enable the members of the public to experience Europe as we always intended it to be.
