Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I join with those who have thanked and praised Commissioner Piebalgs for his active and coherent strategy.
I should now like to discuss the subject of renewable energy: not because I believe that it is the only solution to the problem but because, as shadow rapporteur on behalf of my group, I bear particular responsibility for this issue.
It is true that renewable energy forms part of the response to the high oil prices; but, in my view, another important factor is that Europe and the Member States have not always set the right priorities with regard to renewable energy.
We have a directive on electricity, and are active in that field, albeit rather less active in the field of biofuels.
Yet we do not have a coherent European strategy for promoting renewable energy in the field of heating and cooling, even though dependence on oil and gas is strongest here.
We also know the reason for this: namely because many advocates of renewable energy see it only as standing in opposition to nuclear power.
I wonder, however, whether it is really a matter of supreme importance to withdraw from nuclear power.
Is it not much more important to reduce dependence on oil and gas and bring the consequences of global climate change under control as far as possible?
Some might say that it is important to do one thing and imperative to do another; but that is not so easy with only limited means at our disposal.
Germany, for example, has an Act on renewable energy, under which EUR 0.5 per kilowatt-hour is invested in photovoltaic technology.
Cumulatively, EUR 3 billion will have been raised in this field in the coming years; of course, this money cannot be found elsewhere.
We must remind ourselves that, for every euro invested in heating and cooling, for example in heating based on biomass, heat pumps or solar thermal energy, 45 times as much carbon dioxide and 45 times as much fossil fuel is saved.
That is why it is time for some new priorities.
