Mr President, the rise in unemployment in the EU, which has now reached nearly 20 million, affects in particular women, people with disabilities and workers who, being over the age of 50, are discriminated against as being too old.
The constantly decreasing number of people in work has resulted in drastic cutbacks in social security systems.
Any pro-active policy for the social market economy must have a particular concern for society’s outsiders, for young people without adequate education, for people who are poorly integrated into society.
Mr Silva Peneda is absolutely right; this draft report is permeated by an ideological bias.
Even over 100 amendments have done little to improve it.
We have in any case got shot of the demand for mergers and relocations to be made conditional upon the retention of jobs.
Such an idea would occur only to a central authority with the right to give or withhold permission, and is fatally reminiscent of the state control that characterised the socialism that is now defunct.
What we favour is the involvement of the social partners and European social dialogue.
I would like to see the report ‘The state of corporate social responsibility’ made compulsory reading for managers.
Our Commissioner Špidla is on the receiving end of Mrs Figueiredo continuing assertions to the effect that the Lisbon strategy gives too little weight to the social dimension.
Welfare is every bit as significant as stable prices, reduced costs and smaller budget deficits.
What we need is growth that achieves a balance between economic considerations and the need for job creation, thus making successful social integration possible.
She is still calling for the financial perspective and the Structural Funds to be topped up.
Where, though, is the money supposed to come from?
My proposal for burdens to be shared out fairly between the Member States, thus guaranteeing planning and funding, was of course rejected.
Far from being a mish-mash of every kind of desirable thing, a new social policy agenda should concentrate on practically achievable actions, primarily investments in education, training and lifelong learning, with a marked rise in employment and a consequent reduction in unemployment, which is the basic cause of social exclusion.
