Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, many speakers this morning have described how this year, 2005, can be a year of neighbourhood policy.
The prospects have rarely been so good.
It is the tenth anniversary of the Barcelona Process, there are peaceful developments between Israel and Palestine in the Middle East – something that would have seemed impossible only a few months ago – and President Yushchenko is here with us today – from an eastern part of the neighbourhood where democracy and human rights are increasingly being asserted.
That is why it is important that we, in this European Parliament, make a positive contribution to this neighbourhood policy process.
In the countries themselves, too, we see that the mood is changing.
Only a few days ago, delegates from Morocco told me that when they launched a human rights dialogue with the Council within the EU-Morocco Association Council, all the other neighbours said to them: 'Have you lost your minds?
How can you talk about human rights with the EU?
It will only backfire on you when the EU starts to interfere.'
However, the impact is positive.
The dialogue is taking place and it means that they have an opportunity to talk about the human rights of Moroccans in the European Union as well.
In other words, it is a productive dialogue, and one which will undoubtedly have a positive effect on all the other neighbours too.
I believe we are on the right track and now we must become more ambitious.
We always said that if corruption in the Palestinian Authority is addressed, if there is an end to terrorism, then we Europeans must help out with even more money if necessary.
That means that we must be prepared to support this process on our own initiative.
Mr Brok has undoubtedly voiced the opinion of the majority in this House, Commissioner.
In other words, if you take action now, you will have our backing.
The prediction that chaos would break out after Arafat's death has proved wrong.
What has broken out is peace; anti-corruption measures are now in place, and we Europeans should support this process.
Let me make a final comment on Syria, which Mr Eurlings has already mentioned.
Mr Solana's comments are unacceptable in this form.
We must now make more demands on Syria as well.
All our Arab neighbours are keen to support the peace process and Syria must now be judged by whether it combats Hamas and Hezbollah in Lebanon and Syria.
If it fails to do so, it cannot be a good partner for EU policy.
This must be made clear and, in this respect, the Commissioner has been rather more forthright in her comments than Mr Solana in recent weeks.
