Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Environment and Health Action Plan 2004-2010 before us today, combined with the proposals from our rapporteur, Mrs Ries, is equal to the heavy demands we are making of it.
Its numerous projects are capable of significantly improving our knowledge about environmental impacts on health, and thus provide stronger scientific foundations for our legislative process.
Furthermore, it could enable our legislation to become preventive, which is perhaps even more valuable.
Maybe I am somewhat optimistic about that point, but we all need to have some dreams!
Some projects will certainly be completed by 2010.
I have in mind, for example, improved coordination between the Member States in the field of environment and health, something that should have been sorted out long ago in the European Union.
Most of the actions will, however, extend beyond 2010.
The relationship between humankind and the environment is subject to constant change and often requires new actions and reactions.
I believe that we should be taking steps now to ensure that this action plan does not come to an end in 2010.
The action plan will, however, be successful only if we do not implement it in isolation from the necessary economic processes and pressures and from people’s lifestyles.
It will be successful only if we monitor research results as regards their general validity instead of treating the world like a laboratory.
Our actions must be based on risk analysis and not on ideology.
Paragraph 5 of the resolution contained in the report is doubtless well intentioned, but even the precautionary principle can only be applied if there is an appreciable risk and firm findings.
Legislating on the basis of panic mongering is surely not the way to go and I cannot take this seriously.
Much the same applies to the substances listed in paragraph 6, which are to be replaced by other substances.
I agree with the Commissioner on this: this would breach the principle of the action plan, because we should not be concentrating on things that are covered by EU regulations, such as the REACH programme.
Apart from the fact that available substitutes are costly, we also know little about the risks of exposure to them.
So things need to be weighed up carefully.
As regards smoking, I am in total agreement with the Commissioner: it is not for us in the European Union to be enacting laws in this area; we should instead be encouraging the Member States to proceed in the right direction here.
