Madam President, on behalf of my colleague Mr Turmes, who is stuck in a traffic jam on the motorway and is therefore unable to thank the rapporteur himself, I would like to convey the thanks of my Group for the very cooperative and productive work in producing this report.
We believe this report succeeds in putting the demand side – rather than always the supply side – at the centre of energy strategy once and for all.
That is something that has been neglected in many decades of debate on energy policy and we hope that with the Rothe Report we are now going on the offensive.
Forty per cent potential savings is a great deal.
Even for 20% to be economically feasible today without having to internalise the external costs is a tremendous challenge.
I would like to say at this point that we have agreed to compromise and that we back the report.
We do think, however, that these figures suggest that the Commission and the Council, too, really could be even more ambitious in this area.
Let me say for Mr Paasilinna’s benefit that we do not believe that mandatory targets are damaging, and, if I understand things correctly, Finland, too, could still make enormous savings in heating alone.
When I look at what the Berlin Energy Agency has achieved in energy efficiency, for example, then I wish people would follow Berlin’s example.
We rather feel that energy services are the key to the future for energy efficiency.
We believe we must create a market for energy services if our ambitious targets are to become reality.
I believe economics and ecology can actually go in tandem again here, because if we tackle this single-mindedly then as well as enormous benefits for the environment we will also be able to create jobs, jobs in small and medium-sized firms.
Mrs Rothe, the rapporteur, mentioned public buildings.
We really must set an example here.
We have been discussing it in Germany for a long time.
We have already begun in Berlin, for example, but we have probably still not yet opened up all the potential there is in Germany.
Finally, I would like to express my conviction that we will only really succeed in achieving the ambitious targets we are pursuing in the energy debate, that is independence and security of supply, and in overcoming the major risks, namely climate change and the nuclear risk, if we at last take energy saving and energy efficiency seriously and translate our fine, ambitious words into action.
I am sure that Mr Piebalgs will be the first Commissioner in Europe to act rather than only talk.
