.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank Mr Weber for his report and particularly to express my agreement with his view which underpins it, namely that this television directive has been a European success story.
Over recent years, it has been possible to reserve most of the broadcasting time to European works, which is what the directive was intended to do.
What is also crucial is that the process of integration in which Europe is engaged means that there has to be more exchanging of television programmes between all the European countries.
In view of the regrettable fact that the percentage of broadcasts produced by independent producers has declined over recent years, more of them should be sought out and more European joint productions facilitated.
There are two problematic aspects that I would like to address.
Particularly in the new Member States, there has been an increase in media concentration to a disturbing degree, and that is something of which we must not lose sight.
Media concentration of such a kind cannot, politically speaking, be in our interests, for media diversity makes for freedom and liberality, and is something that we must defend.
I agree with Mr Weber about the need for regulation if we are to be able to do that.
The second crucial aspect is that in adapting the directive to the new technological revolution, and to digital media, we must do everything possible to enable public television, whatever the challenges posed by the competition, to really benefit from these new technologies, thus preventing it from being undermined and put at a disadvantage without anyone noticing.
The real test of our success will be media diversity in the public sector too.
Speaking as a German Member of this House, whatever the high regard in which I hold public television and whatever my commitment to it, I have to say that it must do what is required of it even with the new resources at its disposal and there must be no more of what one might describe as surreptitious advertising in public television.
