Mr President, I would like to praise the Commission – or some Commissioners at any rate – for having produced, on 18 May, a paper from which I shall now quote: ‘We must bring more light to bear on the way we work and find new ways to reconnect with the European public.’
The document goes on to say that all official correspondence by letter should be made available in a public register.
One of the people who got this initiative underway was Commissioner Siim Kallas.
There is also the issue of the power exercised by lobbyists, for, in this House, in contrast to the USA, there is a great lack of transparency where they are concerned.
The reason why I signed the motion – a reason I share, I think, with many other Members – was that I expected precisely that sort of explanation from you, and what, Mr President of the Commission, did you give us?
What must be the feelings of the editorial staff of , who made the whole thing public, not to mention the reporters of the or those working on the ARD’s ‘Tagesschau’ yesterday evening, when they hear you using words like ‘rabblerousing’ and ‘misuse’.
Not least as one who has been a journalist for many years, I object to such accusations.
Your statements, Mr President of the Commission, put you on the wrong side of the debate.
You are sending out the wrong messages.
By saying what you say, you are defending an EU lacking any transparency whatever, full of intolerance, and – yes, I will say it – characterised by paralysis.
The stunned rigidity associated with the EU Constitution is precisely because of the sort of behaviour of which you have, lamentably, given an example today.
By this pushing away, you are making yourself a symbol of an EU characterised by oldboy networks and – oh, yes – the power of lobbyists.
In so doing, you do damage to the ideals in which many of us believe.
The fundamental problem is precisely that; this attitude of withdrawal, this no longer comprehending what is at issue, when what is at issue is the ideals of the EU.
Like many others, I am in favour of Europe, but not of this EU and its abusive practices.
Without transparency, there is no democracy.
Stick to what you said a fortnight ago, and then we will not have to say .
Wake up, I beg of you!
