Mr President, the Turks are not making things easy for the Members of this House.
We have to ask ourselves what is actually going on.
Where Cyprus is concerned, what is the truth of the matter?
While the extension of the customs agreement amounts to its indirect recognition, a unilateral statement is made at the same time to the effect that it is not recognised at all.
Never before, in the whole history of the opening of accession negotiations, has anything like this happened.
The Turkish attitude may well be understandable, but we, in this House, must not stand for this sort of coercion.
I would like to say, secondly, that nobody has so far been able to convince me that Turkey meets the political criteria; it may do so on paper, but it does not in reality.
Authors who make explicit reference to the Kurdish and Armenian problems are hauled off and find themselves in front of a judge.
Lawyers who seek to defend the Kurds’ human rights are obstructed when they try to represent their clients.
I do not want to go into the issues surrounding women’s rights, but they fall a long way short of European standards.
It was in the hope of progress in relation to human rights that the EU undertook to open negotiations with Turkey, but the crucial thing is that we are applying dual standards here.
We are, for example, taking a far more tolerant line towards Turkey than towards Croatia, which has produced far more evidence of progress in this area and is meeting the targets of the Council Task Force’s Action Plan.
The Eurlings report represents an attempt at squaring the circle.
If it is not somehow laid down in black and white that these negotiations are open-ended, and if this House’s minimum requirements, as set out in these two additional amendments tabled by the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, are not complied with, then I am in favour of rejecting the whole report in order, before 3 October, to send a message, not least to the Council.
