– Mr President, Commissioner, as we have already heard from many speakers, confidence in the European Union and in its institutions is certainly not as high as it might be.
What underlies this is that great lack of information, of which many of my fellow Members and I are constantly reminded at various events, and with which, indeed, we are reproached, and so it is for us to endeavour to improve matters.
It cannot be right, as we approach so important a decision as that on the European Constitution, that there should be no campaign of information and explanation, or at least no long-term one.
It is irresponsible of us to allow such ignorance in this area, resulting in a great deal of popular disquiet as a result of the various misinterpretations, some of which we have just heard from various sides of the House.
We also have to ask ourselves how efficient our current information and communication strategies are and how many members of the public they reach.
There is a need not only for better cooperation between the institutions but also for structured partnership with the Member States.
None of us can do it on our own.
We need to look at and consider the various technical developments that have been achieved in the fields of radio, television and the Internet.
There should also be more scope for European information in the regions, although this does of course presuppose willingness on the part of those with responsibility for them.
As it is in schools that people are enlightened, and that knowledge is extended and deepened, the education ministers must make it their business to create a permanent place in the timetable for the European Union and its institutions.
We were told yesterday – in speeches that were very different but all good – about how successful we have been in recent years in making European policy and moving the peace project onwards, but we can cope with whatever the future brings only if we involve the public, keeping them informed and expecting them to accept their share of responsibility.
