Mr President, the author of the oral questions, Mr Pistelli, has described the problems in Sudan very well: for a very long time, the problematic North versus South situation in Sudan led the international community to turn a blind eye to the problems in Darfur.
As has already been said, this House exists not only to analyse and criticise – very important though I believe these things are in this case – but also to supply answers and to help secure justice.
It is for this reason that I echo our motion for a resolution in saying that I welcome the UN Security Council’s decision to mandate the International Criminal Court to examine the situation in Darfur.
The conflict in Darfur has made refugees of over a million men, women and children.
The UNHCR is working on the assumption that there are over 200 000 refugees from Darfur in Sudan’s neighbour, Chad.
While there are frequent reports of attacks on refugees, the UNHCR is also very concerned about those on internally displaced persons in Darfur, where women tell how they are raped when they go in search of firewood or water.
This makes it important that those traumatised by being displaced within their own country should be spared the further trauma of being forced to return to their homes.
Any movement on the part of persons displaced within their own country must be purely of their own free will.
That, too, is something for which we call in our motion for a resolution.
We also call on the Sudanese Government to cooperate with the International Criminal Court, ensuring that those charged with crimes against humanity are brought before it.
Only when these people stop getting off scot-free will there be a chance of stability and peace.
The culture of impunity must be brought to an end; that will do a great deal to help establish justice.
We have also been told that, following the signature of the peace treaty, the Commission and the Sudanese Government together hammered out a country strategy paper.
As the object of such country strategy papers is the promotion of peace, democracy and human rights, the recent arrest of the human rights activist Dr Mudawi is more than disturbing, and gives cause to question the willingness of the Sudanese Government to pursue these goals.
This House must send out a clear message by demanding that Dr Mudawi be released without delay.
