Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the failure of the summit and, not least, the circumstances surrounding it, are symptomatic of the deep crisis that we are in, and which has been precipitated by the dramatic way in which the public have denied us their allegiance.
That much is apparent from what the voters in France and the Netherlands have done, and in doing it they surely represent many others.
Their motivations as individuals may differ, but what underlies them can be found throughout the European Union.
If we are to regain the public’s confidence, we have to bring about a change in direction and a change in European politics.
I have only a few comments to make on this.
For a start, we do not want a constitution.
The mere term ‘constitution’ is redolent of a European superstate; nobody wants one, and we are not even trying to build one.
What we do need, though, and urgently, is a basic agreement setting out how decisions are to be taken in the European Union, and how the institutions – Council, Parliament and Commission – relate to one another.
We need the Charter of Fundamental Rights in an agreed form.
Such are the essential elements of what we need, and of what will enable us to organise and manage a Union of 25 or even more Member States in an orderly fashion.
We have to enable the public to understand and get a handle on enlargement, and that means that Europe needs borders.
A halt must be called to the process of enlargement until such time as we have consolidated the last additions, and I would also point out that most people in Europe would feel themselves affronted if the accession negotiations with Turkey were to start on 3 October.
What is needed is a privileged partnership with Turkey, rather than for it to become a Member State.
My final point is that a new culture of subsidiarity is called for in the Commission’s bureaucracy.
The Commission must give thought to how many regulations have to be enacted in Brussels and about the point at which the Member States should assume responsibility.
