– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by adding my own thanks to Mr Őry, the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job of work.
Which way do we want Europe to go?
We are experiencing a constitutional crisis.
We are going through a financial crisis.
People no longer understand Europe.
We have to make every effort to get the public back on board.
The proposed rules on natural radiation in the Common Position will do the precise opposite, being a classic example of excessive regulation and the bureaucratic approach.
They bear no relation to the European Union’s efforts at deregulation.
The Commission and the Council are always talking about better lawmaking as a means towards more growth and job creation in the EU.
My concept of ‘better regulation’, though, is a rather different one; it is that it is with regulations such as these that we must make a start.
With their requirements for protection against the sun, the Council and the Commission are shooting well wide of the mark.
The mere fact that a variety of climate conditions prevail in the EU means that there are also many practical considerations militating against a Europe-wide regulation of this kind.
I do not believe that protecting workers from the sun should be treated with the same importance in Finland as in Spain or Greece.
We are taking responsibility away from the people of Europe; whatever happened to workers’ personal responsibility?
How, moreover, can it be determined whether sunburn was sustained during leisure or at work?
What about the problem of liability if employers carry out the comprehensive risk assessments in relation to the sun’s rays, which this directive will finally impose?
Let me give you another brief example.
I had a discussion with a workplace safety and protection officer, who told me how he had stood beside a worker, next to whom was a metre-high jet of flame.
He asked the worker why he did not put the flame out, to which the reply was: ‘you are the one who is responsible for safety in the workplace’.
That is an example of why we need to give workers a sense of being responsible for themselves.
Tomorrow, we in this House will be able to indicate our desire for the dismantlement of bureaucracy and for deregulation, and to send a message to the effect that we have learned something from the referenda in France and the Netherlands.
Like Mr Mann, Mr Bushill-Matthews, and many other MEPs, I have tabled amendments aimed at removing the sun from the scope of the directive.
I ask you to support our amendments or at least the compromise adopted in the Committee.
We must regain the trust of the people of Europe.
