.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group does, of course, wish to give Robert McCartney’s sisters a very warm welcome to the European Parliament.
We wish to take this opportunity to reiterate our gratitude to them for having been able, in April, to meet them and to assure them that our group is alongside them in the search for their brother’s murderer, in their quest for justice, in their search for peace of mind, and in seeking to bring about the social conditions that enable people with differing views to live together in peace.
To them I say: in your campaign against murder, we will always be by your side.
My group supports the justified demand that the murderer or murderers surrender to the police and that the witnesses should make – whether to the police or to the ombudsman or to some other body – statements that will stand up in court and help ensure that the murderer is punished as he deserves to be.
There must be no walls of silence where murder is committed.
It is for all of us to demand that the civil law should banish such things from every society.
Every institution, every association, every party, every individual must use their influence to cause the rule of law to prevail, not only in the European Union, but also throughout the world.
In this sense, we all share in the responsibility for ensuring a climate of openness in every land on earth, one that makes it possible for the rule of law to prevail and for laws to be obeyed.
My group condemns every use of military force as a means of policy.
We condemn state-sponsored oppression and the use of force by the armed services or the police as a means of suppressing democratic movements, every bit as much as we do individual acts of murder or terrorism carried out by individuals or political groups against individuals or the structures of civil society, for such things do nothing to help deal with society’s problems; on the contrary, they make matters worse.
Believing it to be necessary to support the peace process in Northern Ireland, my group calls on all interested parties to press on with the peace process that was set in motion by the Good Friday Agreement and to actively promote it.
In its motion for a resolution, my group’s sole concern is with the case of Robert McCartney, and it makes no attempt to establish a connection with certain political groups that are alleged to be responsible for his murder.
There is a difference between someone inciting someone else to do something, doing it themselves, doing it on someone else’s behalf, or being a member of an organisation.
That is why this resolution is drafted in this way, and I believe you will be able to wholeheartedly endorse its substance.
