Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Europe is home to almost 500 million people has made it the part of the world with the greatest purchasing power, and that makes the sort of strategy that we are discussing today especially important.
Purchasing power has not only advantages but also disadvantages, and so we have to consider in what areas we want to include this new dimension.
I would like to draw particular attention to energy policy.
I regard the Baltic region in particular as a region with a future, and as one that is of the utmost importance to us.
Countries such as Norway, with its reserves of crude oil and natural gas, and Iceland, with its renewable geothermal energy, are examples for us to follow in this respect and present us with an immense opportunity to develop common strategies for energy policy in this area; I believe that the current state of energy prices – for both oil and gas – means that this will be one of the most important issues in the future.
Not only in that respect, but also as regards the security of our energy supply, this area will, in future, have a special part to play.
When I say that the infrastructure, too, presents us with a vitally important challenge, I am referring not only to the energy infrastructure, but also to such things as telecommunications.
Tasks such as developing broadband technology and ensuring access to information on the Internet by a wider cross-section of society will in future have an important part to play in the future, particularly in remote regions.
A primary concern in cross-border cooperation is economic in nature – to bring together small and medium-sized businesses.
The need to create jobs and to attempt to raise the standard of living in these regions make it particularly important that our promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, and of cooperation above all, should take no account of borders.
That brings me on to a really fundamental issue, that of the WTO and Russia.
I believe it to be crucial to the Hong Kong talks in particular that we should join together with Russia in considering a common strategy as regards global lawmaking.
I regard this dimension as being of particular importance to us in terms of our trade relations, and the importance to Europe of the further development of the WTO structures will be consistent with this.
A very interesting debate is currently going on in this region about how we can join together in adapting to the new situations in the global context, and that I see as being the real challenge for Europe.
