Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I made my first statement on the situation in Darfur on 14 September 2004, since when – as you said – there have been some crucial changes.
After 21 years of civil war and raging ethnic conflicts between north and south, a peace treaty has been signed between the government and the Sudan People’s Liberation Army.
For this country – the largest in Africa – this is a great opportunity.
What is vital now is that millions of refugees should be helped to return to living conditions worthy of human beings, to provide themselves with the basic necessities of life, which means not just food and drinking water, demining and the return of land to its owners, but most of all ensuring their physical security.
Although the European Union’s strategy, which involves supporting the Sudan to the tune of EUR 400 million, is the right response, it is necessary, above all, that the release of these resources be made conditional upon the implementation of the peace treaty and, in particular, on the improvement of the situation in the south-western province of Darfur.
A number of things have been happening in this province since our debate last September.
The UN Security Council has handed over the grave violations of human rights in Darfur to the International Criminal Court.
The UN’s commission of inquiry into the war crimes in this province has unequivocally described them as no less serious in their cruelty than genocide.
The fly in the ointment, in terms of what is happening in Sudan, is that the situation in Darfur remains extremely precarious and is capable of dragging Sudan as a whole headlong into the abyss again.
It is alarming that the human rights activist Dr Mudawi has been arrested along with a colleague and his driver, and I can do no other than endorse the call for his immediate release.
A third element that is having a positive impact is the role played by the African Union, which has built up its forces to a significant degree, although the size of Darfur makes its 7 700 men no more than a drop in the ocean.
Both the EU and Nato should, though, be cautious about committing themselves militarily to peacemaking operations.
The European strategy, which is founded upon the secure supply of food and education, repatriation and the building-up of administrative and governmental capacities, whilst also planning demobilisation, disarmament and the training of security forces, is surely the right way to stabilise the situation in the long term.
