Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity of thanking Commissioner Hübner for the fact-finding missions that she keeps undertaking in various parts of the Union.
The basic point I would like to make about the report is that you cannot have ‘more Europe’ for less money, and so it is, to say the least, desirable that we should come to a speedy and realistic agreement on the Financial Perspective.
The report itself, as is only right and proper, makes demands for an increase in economic and social cohesion in line with territorial cohesion, so that every citizen of the EU will be able to rely on the best possible state and political structures in making a success or his or her own life.
What can the EU do about this?
For a start, it must establish a framework for the balanced economic, social and territorial development of the geographical area of the Community as a whole.
Secondly the EU’s sectoral policies must therefore acquire this new territorial component and with it added European value.
Thirdly, the Community’s diversity needs to be promoted, with the various regions supported in their specific interests, strengths and weaknesses for the sake of a polycentric regional policy.
It is through such an all-embracing approach by EU policies, enhanced by the territorial component and with subsidiarity maintained, that we will be able to move the EU a significant step further down the road towards becoming a Union of all citizens.
Particular attention needs to be given to disadvantaged regions such as rural mountainous areas, for which suitable indicators will have to be devised if we are to have a better picture of what their actual disadvantages are, for which existing models and calculation methods, such as, for example, per capita GDP, are not sufficient.
There must also be a greater emphasis on the simplicity and practicability of Community policy if its effective implementation and application in every EU region is to be guaranteed.
This is one instance where the ‘less is more’ principle is particularly applicable.
