Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Jacques Delors is regarded as one of the most successful Presidents that the Commission has had, for it was he who had the vision of creating and completing the internal market.
The Lisbon strategy could be this Commission’s vision.
One difference, though, is that Jacques Delors was dealing with Heads of Government like Chancellor Kohl and President Mitterrand, who had their own visions and goals for Europe.
With some of the Heads of Government that we have now, one could well ask, in a critical way, where Europe ranks in their list of priorities.
That, Mr President of the Commission, is one of the fundamental priorities for you – to overcome that obstacle and let Lisbon become a reality, so that you do not end up saying, ‘I had a dream’, whilst nothing productive came out of it for us.
That is what is crucial, and the Commission can contribute in various ways.
Commissioner McCreevy, whom I see here, can, in his own field, do a great deal to that end.
I hope that you will get your own way, despite the Member States, where the cause of Europe needs to be advanced.
People in the Member States need to be told what those States are supposed to be doing.
Transparency and comparability are at stake here.
We are currently seeing a failure to apply the law as it stands in the case of the Stability and Growth Pact, and that leads me to suspect that progress reports will not be enough.
Let us make very clear comparisons here, with benchmarking, in order to establish who, in Europe, has the best labour market policy.
When handling the Lisbon strategy in future, we will have to take care that the economy, ecology and social objectives do not act against each other, but are instead all subordinated to the goals of the Lisbon strategy.
When nation states implement it, it is even more important to ensure that lawmaking is improved.
There are Member States – and I am from one of them – that manage over and over again to plug the gaps as required.
The most important thing will be to encourage people in Europe, so that the goal of the Lisbon strategy can become reality.
Our main problem is that there are elements in Europe that do not believe that we can hold our own against the Americans.
If we do manage to do that, then we in Europe will have achieved a great deal.
This House is right behind you.
