Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, research and innovation are the key to solving a great many of the problems Europe faces.
This is something that has been highlighted on a number of occasions, as has the fact that our aim is to increase funding.
I should merely like to point out that the road ahead of us is a rocky one.
Delighted though I am that Parliament and the Commission are agreed on the need for increased funding, I really am extremely concerned at the signals coming out of the Member States.
As an example, I find it intolerable that the current government of Germany, my own country, has put forward official proposals to the finance ministers aimed at reducing the amount of money the EU spends each year on research in the European Union.
This is the precise opposite of what we ought to be doing.
Although we agree, then, on the need to aim for increased funding, I do believe that we should nevertheless bear in mind that a great deal of money still comes from the national research budgets, and that the Member States should increase these.
At present 5% of funding comes from the Commission and 95% from the national research budgets.
Although the Commission may one day provide 10% of funding and the Member States 90%, this ratio is unlikely to change substantially.
It follows that European added value must be our main concern when selecting our priorities, and I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of Amendment 7 by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
I should, however, like to make it clear that I do not share the view of Mr Lundgren, who is unfortunately no longer present, that the measures taken to date have barely provided any European added value.
There is a great deal for Europe to do; having studied medicine myself, I know that in this field alone European cooperation is needed, in particular in the fight against rare diseases and children’s diseases, and indeed to achieve any kind of success.
We must therefore provide greater support for such cooperation.
