– Mr President, not only internally is the EU in a process of constant development, but its cooperation and contacts in matters of foreign policy are also becoming ever more extensive.
That is not only important in terms of defending our economic interests, but also and primarily in terms of building up networks whereby human rights, peacekeeping, respect for nature, and much else, can be demanded and put into practice.
This is an area in which many delegations from this House are active, and these contacts have enabled us to achieve a great deal.
Parliament’s desire to establish and build up inter-parliamentary delegations with Iran in order to enter into dialogue with that country is something to be welcomed.
During its preparatory stages, many sensitive issues will have to be addressed and stipulations made.
As we have just heard, the Iranian Government has, in recent years, acceded to a number of UN Conventions, including that on the rights of the child, and signed up to the Declaration of Human Rights.
Changes have also been made to its penal code, and execution by stoning prohibited, although this ban has been inadequately implemented.
I regret to say that this list does not include the Declaration on the Rights of Women.
In this resolution, we highlight the very large gaps in many areas and the inadequate respect for human rights, with particular reference to the imprisonment of women and to arbitrary arrests.
The treatment of journalists also leaves much to be desired, and the situation must be improved as a matter of urgency.
What is going on in Iran must be carefully investigated and examined, and so there are two points on which I cannot endorse this resolution, and in respect of which I will be moving an oral amendment.
We must clearly express what we think joint cooperation means and stick to our principles, whilst also accepting that Iran has its own structures and must itself decide in what way it is to change, difficult though this may often be for us to understand.
The only way for us to change anything is not to pass up the chance of a new start.
