.
Mr President, the European Union promises its citizens an area of freedom, security and justice.
The many threats to which we are exposed on a daily basis teach us that positive and proactive policies are needed not only to guarantee security, but also to secure freedom, as the latter is not merely a matter of justice.
The rapporteur is aware of this fact, and has based her report upon it.
I should like to thank her for doing so and to congratulate her, as this really is an eminently suitable basis for such a key decision.
I am well aware of how difficult this decision was, because I too, in my capacity as rapporteur on the Article 7 procedure, have had a brief taster of the intragroup disputes that Mr Kirkhope also mentioned in passing.
It is my firm belief that these stem primarily from the perpetual fear that the European Union could regain authority in certain fields, rather than from any other fears.
My group is absolutely delighted that a number of principles have been agreed on in the course of these disputes.
This agency is intended to act in support of the Member States, rather than to take decisions on their behalf.
The aim is not to put in place blanket surveillance systems, but to provide institutional support, an earlywarning system and an instrument for awareness raising and dialogue.
Information and activities will be linked up by this agency rather than bureaucratised, and I believe that anyone working in this field will be aware of the urgent need for a European network of networks, as mentioned by the rapporteur.
The intention is not that courts should compete among themselves, but that legal disputes over the prevention of human rights violations in Europe should be avoided.
No one wants to see Europe assuming the role of Big Brother to the rest of the world, or for it to be overeager to see motes in the eyes of its neighbours; what we want is for it to take a critical look at itself, and to carry out continual and critical assessments of the human rights situation within its own borders.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, and to assure her of our support.
I hope that the Commission will give due consideration to Parliament’s special role as an advocate of fundamental rights, human rights and civil liberties, and that it will also comply with this House’s wishes by providing an appropriate legal basis for this report.
