Mr President, the United Nations Summit was not a failure, but I do agree with many of my fellow Members that it was disappointing.
Nevertheless, thanks to the commitment of Europe and of many developing countries, tangible results did emerge.
It is to be hoped that the General Assembly produces yet more progress in the coming months.
The greatest disappointment, as far as I am concerned, is the absence of a commitment to global disarmament.
Mankind spends EUR 1 000 billion per annum on arms and EUR 60 billion on development aid.
If someone from another planet were to look down on this earth, he would think that mankind wished to destroy itself and had no desire to survive.
I would ask the Commission and the Council, therefore, what Europe is doing to ensure that an initiative is taken to make good this deficiency in the field of disarmament – particularly of weapons of mass destruction?
I also think it a shame that hardly any success was achieved in reforming the bodies of the UN.
The role of the Secretary-General has hardly been strengthened at all.
The General Assembly has been unable to reform itself, and the Security Council is a pure anachronism.
In this regard, an astonishing fact is that the African Union apparently functions better than the European Union.
The 53 African states had specific ideas on which countries from their continent should sit on the Security Council.
Europe is divided on this and perhaps even contributed to the failure to expand the Security Council.
Hence, I would also ask the Commission and the Council what Europe is doing to remedy this fault.
My final point concerns the democratisation of the UN.
Sixty years on, this cannot be a matter for governments alone.
We need a parliamentary component.
The Inter-Parliamentary Union is all very well, but it is not enough.
A parliamentary assembly will be necessary sooner or later, because EU civil society is better placed than the citizens’ chambers in the UN, and this situation cannot continue.
