– Mr President, the rapporteur, Mrs Vlasto, achieved very broad agreement in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
She has illuminated every corner, but this report – like so many things that we adopt here – lacks the spark that is needed to ignite a new industrial policy.
I should like to say how much I agree with Mr Libicki: the regulatory framework still needs scrutinising, which is why this report, to my regret, will be unable to have the effect that it really needs.
Mr Verheugen said that, as part of the better lawmaking project, the Commission will, in future, say ‘no’ more often, specifically to Parliament and the Member States.
He forgot to mention the Commission itself.
You could make a start there, by going through those proposals that have not been implemented for fifteen years, by implementing competitiveness in consumer protection and environmental protection within the Commission itself.
These are starting points enough and, in my opinion, every European measure, as the President of the Commission once suggested, should pass three tests: the cost test, the competitiveness test and the subsidiarity test.
On this point, I agree with Mr Hudacký, who said that there should be no regulation in areas for which the nation states have jurisdiction.
The question before us is how Europe decides between competing and cutting itself off.
Does increased competitive pressure act as a fitness programme for Europe's economy or has the old Europe long been economically sidelined?
The challenges are huge.
It is my belief that the core of Europe is too full for international competition and is therefore opting to cut itself off and be sidelined.
That is where we must start.
Europe is under competitive pressure from above and from below.
On the one hand, we are too expensive and, on the other hand, we are not productive enough in order to be able to afford the high costs.
That will only be improved by the new incoming national economies.
The new Member States are bringing us this competition.
That is the important gift of enlargement: more competition and hence a proper industrial policy.
This is what we urgently need, not more new European programmes that get us nowhere and ultimately obscure the regulatory framework.
