Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I rise to put the case for proactive reflection rather than turning round and going back.
We are glad that Europe can again breathe with two lungs.
In the Council, there appear to be those who are playing the ‘new for old’ and ‘future not past’ cards.
While this House adopts the Constitutional Treaty by a two-thirds majority, there is no shortage of Heads of Government who cannot get a majority for more democracy, citizens’ rights and transparency in their own countries.
While the European Parliament, out of the desire to make the European Union more effective, efficient and economical, adopts the Financial Perspective, there are Heads of Government sitting on the Council who disregard their own decisions, ignore treaties, undermine the common goal of developing the European Union further into a political union and fail to abide by the rules of the institutions, believing as they do that they can cope on their own.
I get the impression that there are too many for whom mass appeal in their own countries is more important than their responsibility to the Community, who prefer to blame others rather than share responsibility and opt for egoism rather than solidarity.
If you want to regain the public’s confidence in the European project as a success story, you cannot make them believe things, you cannot take them for mugs or ignore their worries and fears; instead, you have to meet them halfway, tell them how things are, do what you have decided to do and keep to what you have agreed.
If you want to put an end to double standards behind padded doors, you have to give parliaments more of a say in decision-making processes and say a resounding yes to the Constitutional Treaty.
If you want to replace egoism with solidarity, you have to contend for the social market economy.
If you want to stop the majority being held to ransom by the minority, you have to want a stronger Europe of citizens and parliaments.
More and more, I come to the conclusion that all those who are really serious about seeking political union and putting this continent in a stronger position on the world stage really must be committed to thinking, designing and implementing the federal state, the united states of Europe.
