. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group voted in favour of Mr Schmitt’s report in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, even though we are, of course, rather sad that our amendment on the treatment of flight controllers as a public service was not accepted.
On the whole, though, one has to be honest and say that harmonisation, Mr Schmitt’s chosen approach, is entirely in line with our thinking, for, at the end of the day, harmonisation can be an overall goal for the European Union, no matter in what area.
If harmonisation proves successful in certain political fields, if we manage to bring about the same conditions, that cannot do other than improve social standards and safety in every instance, and consequently bring about fairer competition among ourselves.
It is down this road that the rapporteur has gone, while of course incorporating certain other things, two of which I would like to highlight.
The first – and as the previous speaker has already said – has to do with the flight controllers, where we said ‘no’ and contended that the law of the country in which the flight controllers perform their services must apply.
I have come to know Mrs Lichtenberger too well to be surprised by what she said to the effect that social dumping must not be allowed under any circumstances to gain a foothold in this area.
There must be no place for social dumping anywhere!
If we make that the principle for this directive, we also have a good chance of making general changes to the services directive, and of doing away with the country of origin principle, which really does lead to social dumping and the erosion of the law.
A second point that is of course of equal interest to me as rapporteur on the monitoring of road transport is Mr Schmitt’s proposal for a mandatory and standardised or harmonised list of penalties.
I very much hope that we can get this past the Council, for that is precisely what we need on the roads.
It is not acceptable that different Member States should, to some degree, treat different offences as more or less significant.
This is where I regard harmonisation within the European Union as urgently necessary, and so I hope you manage to get it accepted.
I will get my turn a bit later with the second reading of my report, and that of course increases the likelihood that I will achieve it too with my report.
Once again, then, many thanks to the rapporteur.
