Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my speech will follow very similar lines to Mr Brok’s, although I will be focusing rather more on economic relations.
The resolution includes a paragraph on the idea of a transatlantic marketplace, a proposal which has already been put forward in several of Parliament’s resolutions.
It is an extremely simple idea, based on the premise that our economic integration is much deeper than we are aware and than we perceive it to be, as well as on the premise that this economic integration facilitates healthy growth and secures jobs on both sides of the Atlantic, and hence enables us to help the whole world participate in this prosperity.
This applies to both the multilateral and bilateral agendas.
What we lack, though, is a rational view of this economic and social reality in the political sphere.
This means that we cannot continue with the existing New Transatlantic Agenda on its own, and especially not with the Positive Economic Agenda, which is far too technical and apolitical, as well as being impossible to explain to the public.
Changes must therefore be made to these agendas, and we must develop some kind of plan, idea or strategy to form the basis of this transatlantic marketplace.
What is needed is therefore not a free-trade zone, but a genuine harmonisation of the two economies, which in fact already exists in reality.
The idea of the internal market must be adopted, realities acknowledged, geopolitical and geostrategic changes which have taken place in the world recognised and a model applied that already exists in the sectors of competition and trade, where experts work together across the Atlantic.
One need only look at the current figures and the relevant Commission documents – for example the Quinlan and Hamilton report – to see that economic relations are currently very close.
To give but one example; US investment in the Netherlands in 2003 was at approximately the same level as total investment by US companies in the whole of Asia.
I hope that this example will stir the Members of this House into action, and I hope that we can build on it and start to cooperate properly.
