.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report that we are debating this evening is completely in line with the Commission's beliefs and with the policy that we are pursuing and I am therefore exceptionally grateful for the support of the European Parliament.
First of all, we needed to make sure in Europe that industrial policy in general is seen once more as a political task.
We had to clarify that we in Europe cannot manage without a strong, efficient industrial base and that it is a mistake to believe that we can live from services alone.
This has already been achieved.
Secondly, we need to ensure that European industry retains its long-term edge in increasingly fierce, and increasingly global, competition.
That is the main thrust of the new growth and employment strategy which the Commission has tabled and which Parliament adopted by a large majority.
What we are trying to do here, above all, is to improve our innovative skills.
European industry can survive worldwide and generate growth and jobs only if 'made in Europe' indicates a top-of-the-range product.
We cannot compete through lower social standards, lower environmental standards or lower wages; we need to compete through efficiency, quality and technological progress.
Thirdly, we must analyse very carefully where our industry has structural problems.
I shall shortly be submitting a communication containing a precise analysis of the industrial sectors in Europe and explaining what individual steps are needed in order to improve the competitive chances of European industry.
Everyone can see that the automobile industry and the chemical industry do not have the same problems, any more than do the textile industry and the tooling industry.
I am very grateful to the rapporteur for emphasising the problem of small and medium-sized enterprises, which I regard as the focal point of our efforts; there are 25 million of them, and the European economy thrives on their flexibility and capacity for innovation.
We should always bear in mind that new jobs in Europe are created in this sector and in this sector alone.
The advances in productivity made by European industry mean that, in years to come, no new jobs will be created in industry.
Jobs are only being created by small and medium-sized enterprises, which is why we must help them to overcome their structural problems.
That means access to risk capital, access to knowledge and skills and innovation and an improved business environment, basically in the form of red tape for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The density of regulations that we have achieved in numerous sectors in Europe is quite simply too much for small and medium-sized enterprises.
That is why I am making an announcement today that is also directed at the European Parliament.
This Commission takes the 'better lawmaking' project very seriously.
This does not only mean that we shall improve the quality of lawmaking, it also means that we shall say no much more often in future.
We shall say no to demands from the ranks of the Member States for regulations which are not necessary and I shall also say no if demands come from the European Parliament – and this is, unfortunately, often the case – for regulation which we do not need and the same Parliament then criticises the Commission because it over-regulates.
You are going to see a new Commission here.
We shall say ‘no’ where over-regulation is being set in motion and we shall see how the European public reacts.
I wait with anticipation and I am counting on your assistance.
Healthy self-regulation in the field of lawmaking is what the citizens of Europe expect of us at the moment.
It is also what our economy needs in order to improve its chances of growth and its investment potential.
