Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, having myself once drafted a report on this subject, I am of course particularly pleased by the considerable continuity that is still evident between Mr Cabrnoch’s report and our previous resolutions.
For that, I would like to say how grateful I am to him.
The Council’s eventual agreement, in October of last year, to the use of open coordination in health provision and the care of the elderly is another success chalked up by this House.
I am confident that the PROGRESS programme, on which I am the rapporteur, will soon provide us with an instrument for organising the exchange of best practice, which is so urgently needed, and for pushing through a reciprocal and mutual process of learning from one another.
At the end of the day, the Member States need to be helped to undertake reforms aimed at modernising and strengthening health systems, in which process particular importance must be attached to social cohesion and the principle of solidarity.
If the Member States want to ensure, in future, continued universal access to their systems for health care and the care of the elderly, to guarantee their quality and secure their funding, what is needed above all is more prevention and greater transparency.
Transparency is itself indispensable if quality is to be maintained and if the resources available to the healthcare systems are to be used in the best possible way.
Assessing the quality of medical services must be made much easier; paying out large sums of money for poor-quality service must come to an end.
Patients’ organisations have a very important part to play in this, and they must be more involved in future decisions on health policy.
All the Member States wanted to go further by adopting a Patients’ Law or Patients’ Charter.
They all also face major challenges where the care of the elderly and long-term care are concerned.
We should join together in seeking strategies for improving the interaction between healthcare provision and treatment, in order to be able to improve care for patients in their homes and to provide sufficient care facilities.
