.
Mr President, there has for decades been no shortage of hotspots in Sudan; the fact is that, outside Khartoum and Omdurman, the whole country has been systematically neglected by central government, and so it is hardly surprising that crises can break out all over the place.
Nevertheless, we are glad when things go in the right direction, and the conclusion of the peace treaty with the south in January is one example of this.
All the parties to it must implement it without delay, and the 10 000 UNMIS soldiers deployed by the UN Security Council will help them do this.
We thank those in Darfur who are helping the displaced persons, the injured and the victims of rape in their hour of need, and welcome the African Union’s reinforced presence there.
Nor should we forget to mention the support we have given, enabling them to receive logistical help and other facilities from the European Union and individual Member States.
I am glad that the Security Council has brought the situation in Darfur to the attention of the International Criminal Court.
I see this as sending a clear message to everyone in Sudan, and also to those beyond its borders, that they cannot – contrary to what they evidently believe – go about doing the things that they are doing in Darfur without being punished for them.
The Commission has – as the Commissioner has just said – earmarked some EUR 400 million in resources for Sudan, and I do hope that this will be paid out only when the peace treaty is implemented in the south and when there have been objective improvements in the situation in Darfur.
I have to say that I still regard the Sudanese Government as part of the problem rather than part of the solution.
For example, we heard yesterday that a human rights activist had been arrested shortly before he was due to travel to Dublin in order to receive a human rights prize.
I therefore call for him, and the other persons arrested with him, to be released without delay.
It is with this sort of contradictory behaviour on the part of the Sudanese Government in mind that I ask the Commission whether there are safeguards to ensure that none of the EUR 400 million can under any circumstances be paid out as budget support and that the resources are not, in so far as possible, distributed through governmental structures or taking them as a basis; instead, the attempt should, if at all possible, make use of the aid organisations from abroad that are present in Darfur and elsewhere.
