.
Mr President, Mr PresidentinOffice of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I think that Mrs Malmström has, by dint of a great deal of effort, made a very good job of drafting this report, which makes clear not only the significance of our relations with Russia, but also the fact that Russia is not merely a partner in Europe and an anchor of stability, but has also, as a result of enlargement, become our neighbour, and that it is for that reason that we must, both today and in the future, devote particular attention to our relations with it.
Russia, though, is not a candidate country; this is not a progress report in which we sit in judgment, saying, ‘that is wrong and that is wrong and there you need to do more’.
In this instance, we are applying a quite different procedure.
While drawing attention to violations of human rights or developments in democracy that we regard as undesirable, we should refrain from itemising what is going on in Russia and passing didactic judgment on each individual item.
It is important that this summit has brought concrete results, laying a foundation on which internal and external security may be established, economic cooperation guaranteed, and joint projects in research, education and culture facilitated.
What struck me as very important in today’s debate was what Commissioner FerreroWaldner had to say: if the whole thing is to work, Europe must speak with one voice.
In that case, it will not be acceptable for individual Member States – Germany, France or Spain – to hold separate summits with Russia and pursue a contrary policy, without, moreover, informing either our Baltic friends or the European institutions.
One might be so bold as to say that Germany will refrain from such things after September of this year, but in the case of France and Spain we will, no doubt, have to live with it for some time yet.
By way of a final comment, let me say that cooperation in regional conflicts appears to me to be very important.
Reference has been made to Transnistria, Abkhazia, South Ossetia and NagornoKarabakh, and the EU has offered to help in Chechnya as well.
Rather than being limited to humanitarian operations, it must also have a political dimension, and Russia would be well advised to respond to this signal from Europe.
