– Mr President, even though Iran is one of the largest countries on earth, it still has a government whose actions we view with concern.
I am delighted to learn of the efforts being made to foster dialogue with it, and of the pressure that the European Union is exerting in connection with the state of human rights there.
During the fourth dialogue on human rights between the EU and Iran, held on 14 and 15 June 2004 in Teheran, Iran undertook to improve human rights, and that is a good thing, but we can also see that there is an urgent need that something be done about this, for international organisations estimate that every year still sees between 300 and 400 executions carried out, with some 80 people being flogged and an unknown number stoned to death – all this despite, as you have heard, these things no longer, officially, being in the Iranian penal code.
What shows how much contempt a government can have for its own people is the relevant article – no.
119 – from the former Iranian penal code, according to which the stones used at a stoning must not be so large that the condemned person dies from the impact of one or two of them, nor so small that they cannot be described as stones.
Such a thing is torture, legitimised by the state with the intention of causing death, and it has yet to be demonstrated that it is no longer carried out today, at this stage in the twenty-first century.
Reference has also been made to the human rights of juveniles; although death sentences are pronounced on them, the sentence is not carried out until they are 18.
That means that minors aged 14 and over can spend up to four years in what are called ‘education camps’, waiting to be executed, instead of being able to have a proper education and a future to look forward to.
We have just heard what the UN has had to say on the situation in Iran.
I am very glad that the letter sent by the President of this Parliament, Josep Borrell, to the Iranian ambassador has helped to get a stoning, due to be carried out at the end of last year, delayed and the sentence commuted.
Let us continue to exert this sort of pressure, for only in that way will we, in the eyes of the world, do justice to our own objectives.
