Mr President, as the President of this House has now for the third time in succession prevented me from stating my position in a one-minute speech, I would like to give very brief consideration to an issue that I have been wanting to address for a long time.
At this very moment this House’s bureau is convening, and item 8 on the agenda for its meeting is a highly problematic one.
They are planning an assault on the freedom of the press.
In a House that claims to the outside world that it defends transparency, its bureau, without negotiating with the Members and without publicising it in any way, intends to enact rules that are a mockery of press freedom and are intended to permit nothing but obsequious and uncritical reporting.
I just want to point that out to the public, and I have previously asked the President to prevent this happening.
The same can be said of item 7 on the meeting’s agenda.
There is a direct connection between all this and the topic we are discussing now: the annual report of an EU institution, in this instance that of the European Investment Bank.
We have seen in past years that its lack of transparency made possible the practice of a very large number of things that have to be done away with.
I very much welcome paragraph 21 of this report, which gives voice to concern about the potential conflicts of interest among the EIB’s management, to which there have been repeated references in the press.
I note with interest that an amendment has already been tabled to remove this.
I still have a very clear recollection of the reports on this subject last summer, for example in the 19 August issue of the .
I can see no evidence of these conflicts of interest having been done away with, nor of there being any transparency about them, and I do not think that we can, at this early stage, be so generous with our praise of the Investment Bank.
Generally important though I regard the Bank as being, we can see that the absence of transparency excludes the possibility of trust and democracy, in this House as much as in the EIB.
