.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I can congratulate the small and mediumsized enterprise that is present in the Chamber this evening.
Our reaction has been both rapid and extremely flexible, thus meeting market expectations.
I can see six Commission representatives in the Chamber, and I would congratulate every one of them.
This piece of legislation has taken less time to adopt than nearly any other in the history of the EU.
I should like to congratulate Commissioner Verheugen, as he not only talks about better regulation, but also puts his money where his mouth is.
This is what really matters: ‘just do it’, to quote one company’s constant refrain.
I should also like to offer my warm congratulations to Mrs Thomsen.
Although she is a new Member of this House, she has helped us to set a record, as it can by no means be taken for granted that legislation will be adopted in such a short space of time.
We are all aware that negotiations on the European company went on for over 30 years, and that we have still not achieved our ultimate goal.
What it comes down to is that we wish to shape the Lisbon process, and in order to do so we need this programme.
What Lisbon means, of course, is employment and growth, and we have already established that small and mediumsized enterprises have accounted for 75% of new jobs created in recent years.
The question we must ask ourselves is what growth really means.
The hope of every employee, every pensioner and every child is to see a small improvement, in net terms, in their personal finances at the end of each year.
We must therefore fight to ensure that we all have a little bit more money in our accounts at the end of future years, as has been the case over the past 50 years.
It is our duty to provide as many people as possible with this opportunity, and those who have jobs and are in employment obviously have more money in the bank than those who are unemployed.
Even though a speedy and welcome decision has been taken on this programme, which has even allowed for an increase in funding, Parliament, the Council and the Commission should therefore make every effort to ensure that we do in fact achieve the Lisbon goals, in particular when debating the Financial Perspective.
