Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the need for us to do something about our economic, social and environmental policies is not a matter of doubt; it is because some things need to be changed if the good is to be maintained that we need to adapt all three of these policy areas to the new demands made upon them, thereby enabling risks to be minimised and opportunities seized.
A new independence is what is needed.
While we have to ensure that the shackles are taken off and bureaucracy cut down, the necessary protection mechanisms must remain in place; it must be made easier to set companies up, there must be more research, and the internal market needs to become a reality.
What does rather sadden me is the feeling I get that, over the last weeks and months, the Member States and the various political families in this House have not – unlike the Commission – been using economic and employment policy guidelines to bring business and labour together, but have instead, in debate, been resorting to the old-style models of class warfare, with employers on one side, workers on the other; social protection mechanisms on the one hand and liberalisation on the other.
This will not enable us to resolve the issues and give people greater confidence in the political decision-making process.
We see the market not as an end in itself, but as a means to an end.
We must nevertheless make it more competitive; we aim to increase competitiveness, create jobs and take our environmental responsibilities seriously.
Far from inevitably hampering competition, good social and environmental policies can help make us more competitive, promote growth and create new jobs.
This leads me to say that it is because it secures fundamental social rights that we need the Constitution.
We need to get rid of unanimity on matters of fiscal policy.
We need to complete the internal market.
The European Union needs fundamental social rights and basic standards if there is to be more liberality and a more market-oriented economy, for, rather than throwing the baby out with the bathwater, we want to breathe new life into the model of the environmentally-responsible social market economy.
