Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can justifiably describe the text of the resolution before the House as balanced and as containing everything relevant to the Lisbon strategy.
It also gives real impetus to the strategy’s revival.
All three of its elements – growth and the labour market, welfare policy and the environment – have been addressed in a proper context, and my group has been particularly keen to stress the importance of making a clear connection between these two pillars.
A proper environment and social policy is possible only if there is economic growth and a functioning labour market; there is a close and practical connection between the two, for the success of the one as a policy is conditional upon the other, and that this resolution makes this clear is crucially important.
As the short time available to me prevents me from discussing all three of these points, there is one aspect to which I would like to give particular attention, and I regard it as being of fundamental importance.
I refer to the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement of December 2003 on better lawmaking, which – as I have been observing for a year now – is not operating adequately.
It is particularly unsatisfactory when it comes to scrutinising the impact of laws and to involving interested parties in the production of drafts within the Commission.
One reason why we have had to have the debates we have had on, for example, the services directive and REACH is that the impact of legislation has been assessed either inadequately or not at all, and that the interested parties were not sufficiently involved in the process whereby they came into being.
This is, I think, one of the priorities that this resolution addresses, and it is something that must change.
Let me conclude with a couple of observations on the role played by the other groups in this House.
I am grateful to the Socialist Group in the European Parliament for following the Liberals in now deciding to support this draft.
They were not quite willing to do that in the Steering Group, but I am glad they have now decided to do so, for it needs a broad majority.
It is vitally important that the Lisbon process should be supported by all.
I do have something of a problem with the attitude of the Greens, who met separately in Luxembourg and decided to oppose it without even waiting for the result of the Steering Group’s deliberations.
Surely, this is rather peculiar; perhaps the Greens should re-read the text and think about whether it might after all be better to vote in favour of it, or else they will find it difficult to explain their opposition.
