Mr President, the President-in-Office of the Council started off by saying that the citizens of Europe were disappointed and dissatisfied.
They are indeed, but why?
It is because we, the European Union, are not making a good enough, credible enough or convincing enough job of doing what they expect of us.
Why are we not doing that?
It is not out of any lack of commitment or of the necessary will; what we lack is power, and what certain of the Member States lack is the will to back up words with deeds.
Some Members constantly deplore the mania for regulation, but I regret the lack of greater regulation of security matters at European level.
I call on the Council to give us the resources, to give us the tools, to give the Community the powers to do what Europe’s citizens rightly expect of us.
Let us have from you, at last, not only words, but also action!
If the European Union wants to be the answer to globalisation, we need more of the European Union and a common foreign, security and defence policy to give tangible form to the concept of political union without delay.
If the European Union wants to deliver a credible, serious and speedy response to the menaces of terrorism, drug use, people-trafficking, illegal immigration and corruption, we need more money and more of the European Union.
If we are serious in wanting more growth, more jobs created, more and better research and development, better social security and to fight more effectively against poverty, we need more money and more of the European Union.
What we do not need is for more demands to be made on the EU, more pious lipservice and buck-passing.
We need more policies, more of a will to joint action, more determination, more political action, more European Union.
The European Union goes the furthest towards solving all those problems for which national borders present no obstacle.
For terrorists, egoists, extremists and opportunists, an EU with powers returned to its Member States is the best of friends; a common Europe, a strong EU, is their most deadly adversary.
