Mr President, unlike many of the previous speakers I would like to say that the Commission has done well in the case of textiles, in this situation of conflict between industry and trade where everyone in the European Union was trying to go behind the other’s back.
The Commission has done well with the measures it took in connection with the talks with China.
Before we spend a long time talking about where the textile industry is going and what we can keep here, it would be better – and I am saying this as a member of a textile trade union – to talk about an orderly withdrawal of the textile and clothing industry within the European Union.
That does not mean there will be no textile industry at all – quite the contrary.
There will still be the technical textile sector, high-tech with nanotechnology, the beginnings of which we already have.
That will be what remains of the textile industry in Europe.
There will still be a remnant of in the European Union, but it will be no more than a remnant.
That is why we must talk about an orderly withdrawal.
An orderly withdrawal of course needs alternatives for those employed in these sectors.
Today the Council is again conspicuous by its absence from this debate.
I am saying that specifically for the British Presidency, which has insisted there will be no more money for the European Union.
I am not asking for money for the textile industry.
I am asking for money for the regions where, despite agreements, employment will plummet by more than a million in the next few years.
That is what we need in the European Union.
We should also give some thought to a matter about which I would like to ask the Commissioner a question: should we not be talking about textile labelling?
Labelling must be discussed with the WTO.
I mean labelling that would cover both social and environmental aspects.
The WTO should also require China to implement human rights and ILO standards.
That is the best way for further development.
We must focus on our own workers and also on the workers and on development in China.
Then we will be ready for the development we need in world trade.
