Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nobody in this Chamber is unclear about the need to take more, and appropriate, action to combat terrorism and criminal activity.
What increasingly worries me, though, is that policy-makers at the national and international level can think of nothing better, when new problems arise, than to respond to them with new regulations, new directives and new measures.
I am all in favour of the police and the security forces being given new instruments, but I do think it important that the need for these new measures be demonstrated.
I think it matters that existing measures should be – as they are – effective.
How do things stand with cooperation between the Member States?
As Members have just said, that, after all, is the real problem as regards internal security and the fight against crime.
We have 25 legal systems, none of which are harmonised; our exchange of data is inadequate and not enough information is exchanged between the secret services.
Once measures are decided upon, what do we do with them?
Are they, or are they not, implemented in every Member State?
I really would like to see a list detailing where the gaps in cooperation are, what has been done about these measures and their implementation and just how well existing institutions function.
That is the sort of list we need if we are to be able to decide what else is necessary.
It is then that I – we – will be open to the possibility of considering new instruments, but I have to tell you, Mr Clarke, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that every single measure needs to be shown to be necessary.
It gives me pause of thought that this House has spent a year asking for proof of the need for these measures to retain communications data, and that it is only now that we are being given specific examples of why they are needed; even so, that is not evidence, but individual examples of cases in which it was of use.
That annoys me; grateful though I am that these examples were at least provided, I have to tell you that they are not enough.
Commissioner Frattini hit the nail on the head when he said, just now, that if we adopt new measures, it must for a start be clear that only certain types of data will be used for a certain period of time and only for specific purposes.
This is not about saying either ‘yes’ nor ‘no’ to the whole lot, lock, stock and barrel, but rather about the vital importance of guaranteeing a discriminating and proportionate approach.
I also expect Parliament – which Commissioner Frattini has just said he wants to involve – to be taken seriously.
As things stand at present, the Council is not prepared to give Parliament a proper say as regards the retention of communications data, and that is not on.
