Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin with a brief comment on the political content of the speeches we have heard today, particularly that by Mr Schulz.
I believe – and our current debate on the Lisbon strategy bears this out – that the Lisbon strategy has several pillars.
There is absolutely no doubt that all the pillars are, in principle, equally important components of the strategy.
On the other hand, it is a truism that proper social and environmental policies cannot be pursued without a functioning economy.
The economy is, as it were, the key to the realisation of all our other good political intentions.
Priorities must therefore be set accordingly, although the pillar structure must not be forgotten.
I should perhaps mention in passing that there is no better social policy than the creation of jobs.
That may be another truism, but it still needs to be said.
Another gentle reminder might be in order, because the President of the Commission is constantly being taken to task over this matter.
Both of the competent Vice-Presidents of the European Commission – the one who signed the paper in Lisbon and the one who signed the programme we are discussing today – are Socialists.
It is perhaps appropriate to reiterate that in passing.
This should mean that the dossier is in the best hands within the Commission, and I fail to see the point of forever dredging up this discussion on alleged differences that do not even exist.
I also have a particular appeal to make in this matter, which is that the Commission must attach high priority in the framework of this legislative programme, as in other areas, to the implementation of its interinstitutional agreement with the Council and Parliament.
This is vitally important.
Among the reasons why things have not worked as well as they should in the past have been the lack of impact assessments of legislative proposals and the inadequate way in which the consultation of stakeholders has been conducted.
I urge the President and Vice-President of the Commission, particularly in the course of their work over the coming months, to ensure that the interinstitutional agreement is consistently implemented in this context.
In many areas, this will be the key to the success to which they and all of us aspire.
