Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe, Basel II has become a byword for the way in which it becomes more difficult to get credit the more problematic the situation one is in.
Had Basel II been accepted in its original form, that would of course be an extraordinarily bad sign for Europe’s present economic state, and so I want to express warm thanks to the rapporteur for our group, Mr Radwan, for the extraordinarily difficult job he has done in this regard.
I see this directive, in the form in which it is presented in his report for the Economic and Monetary Affairs Committee, as providing us with an excellent means of dispelling the fears of small and medium-sized businesses.
The second point I want to pick up is the same as that addressed by Mrs Berès.
It does not often happen that I agree with her, but on this occasion and in this matter I do.
It is astonishing that the American banking sector, from which this directive was originally derived, is now delaying its application to the smaller American banks.
Great believer in the trans-Atlantic relationship though I am, I do think we need to take care that economic harmonisation in Europe does not take us down different roads from those taken on the other side of the Atlantic.
We will be the strongest economic area in the world only if we make changes at the same pace as they do.
Let me conclude by expressing my agreement with what Mr Radwan had to say about comitology.
The right message to send to the many members of the European public who complain that it is not clear who decides what in Europe, is that it is here in the European Parliament that decisions of a political nature are taken, and that is why the sunset clause, which is to be in force for two years, enjoys my support.
In 2007, there will be three more directives that have gone through the Lamfalussy procedure: the directive on responsibilities in relation to prospectuses, the Market Abuse Directive and the one on financial conglomerates.
All three will be there, and all three, or so I believe, need to bring clarity and stability to the financial markets.
This is where the European Parliament can play its part, and so I welcome this directive in the form in which Mr Radwan has presented it.
