Mr President, I should like to begin by saying that I cannot agree with the previous speaker.
I should like to express my sincere thanks to all the members of the European Convention.
The Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats made a particularly valuable contribution to this Convention, something which as a young MEP I was particularly glad to see.
Mr Teufel, Mr Brok and Mr Wuermeling are names that deserve mention in this connection, but I should like to thank each and every one of the participants for the work they carried out during a period of such crucial importance for the future of Europe.
I found it all the more regrettable that the Council, not long after the Convention had completed its democratic work, used an urgent procedure to revise its outcome to bring it into line with its wishes.
It is unfortunate that the democratic nature of the Convention’s work was somewhat tarnished as a result of this.
Nevertheless, I support the Constitution and do not believe that it requires detailed explanations, as the previous speaker said, but that it creates a clear, transparent and more citizen-friendly Europe.
If I may go into detail on one point, I believe that one aspect of the Constitution which represents major progress is the fact that cooperation between the European Parliament, on the one hand, and the national parliaments, on the other, will improve our contacts with the national parliaments, and enable us to gain a more detailed idea of how the legislation for which we often merely lay down the framework is transposed directly in the nation states.
Particularly helpful in this regard is the fact that we have a clear delineation of competences between national and European levels, and the early-warning system for subsidiarity monitoring will also have a positive impact.
I therefore hope that regulation of a clearer and more transparent structure of competences, and the early-warning system for subsidiarity monitoring, will allow us to achieve more effective and better cooperation with our national colleagues, in order to make legislation in Europe even more transparent.
