.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report we have to debate and vote on today is one that takes a wide-ranging approach to issues associated with the development of tourism, especially in developing countries.
For that the rapporteur, Mr Cornillet, deserves our thanks.
For many of the poorest countries in the world, tourism does of course represent an important potential source of income, and that is why it is to the credit of both the rapporteur and the Committee on Development that, in considering the use of tourism in association with projects to combat poverty, they do not lose sight of the millennium development goals.
That is something I regard as very important.
What prompts my fundamental criticism, though, is the way in which the report gives the impression that the EU is, as an outsider, announcing to the developing countries what they may and may not do.
That I regard as improper.
I do not think it right that the EU should interfere in the way the developing countries manage their visa policies.
I do not think it legitimate that developing countries should be called on to submit reports to whomsoever, irrespective of what is then done with those reports.
Nor, in my view, is a report of this kind the right place for the EU to demand the creation of special police units.
There is no mistaking the EU’s assumption, expressed yet again in this report, that tourism will help to resolve all the world’s remaining problems.
It is because that is something I regard as highly dubious that I welcome the tabling of the amendment calling for the deletion of recital Q, according to which tourism is the enemy of totalitarianism, dictators and over-centralised power.
That is wishful thinking that bears no relation to reality.
Like Mr Kusstatscher, though, I do find it regrettable that this report scarcely mentions the real ecological problems associated with mass tourism, at any rate not to such an extent as would make it possible to resolve them.
The amendments adopted in the Development Committee mean that the report does now contain wordings advocating that, but they go against the fundamental tendency of the report as a whole.
My Group will not therefore be able to endorse this report.
