.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President of the Commission tells me that his links with Mr Latsis go back a very long way into his past.
In that case, Mr President of the Commission, I have to ask you whether he was with you in the Maoist youth movement, for if he were, that would make him the only Maoist billionaire in Europe.
What Mr Poettering has just done is, I think, very much the right thing to do.
With Members like the one you have just addressed in your group, Mr Poettering, you have no more need of political opponents.
I can therefore do no other than warmly congratulate you on taking the action to which you have just referred.
The case we are here to discuss has, in fact, already been answered.
The decision that is supposedly worthy of criticism was not taken by the Commission under Mr Barroso, but by the Commission under Mr Prodi, and was within Commissioner Monti’s sphere of responsibility.
As Mr Poettering has just demonstrated by naming dates, it is in no way something for which this Commission has to answer.
The authors of this motion, or at least the brains behind it, are well aware of that, and so one has to ask why the motion was tabled in the first place.
It was tabled precisely in order to bring about what is happening here right now.
That is what it was aimed at, no more and no less.
There are no political motives behind it.
The aim was that there should be cameras up there and crowds of people jostling one another in front of the entrance to this Chamber; it was that what is happening should happen.
Just for show, and nothing more: that is the political substance behind this.
Mr President of the Commission, you are entitled to have this House tell you what it expects of you and of your Commission.
We did so in some detail when the Commission was appointed.
My group has not always been satisfied in its dealings with this Commission, and you can take it as read that, if there are things to be criticised and objected to, we in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament will do just that.
If these accusations turn out to be substantiated, then we will give them our attention.
I speak on behalf of all the members of this group when I say that I am not prepared to allow defamation and insinuation to become a parliamentary strategy.
That is something we are not prepared to accept.
It is for that reason that I declare, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, that we will not be voting in favour of this motion.
