.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I drafted the opinion on data retention for the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and I should also like to restrict myself to that subject.
Before I begin, however, let me thank the rapporteur and everyone else who was involved for their work.
It is surely incontestable that the democracies of the European Union must face up to the threat from crime and terrorism and engage in the effort to defeat them.
The Commission’s proposal on the retention of stored and processed data could contribute to the pursuit of that aim, but not in its present form.
The proposal for a framework decision has rightly come under heavy cross-party fire in this House.
Allow me to highlight a few of the issues.
The proposal fails to answer the key question of the extent to which the retention of data is actually necessary and expedient.
Regrettably, it contains no plausible evidence that the proposed measures will actually serve to improve our collective ability to fight crime and terrorism.
Without this evidence, however, it is absolutely impossible to justify the profound effects of this type of data storage on people and businesses.
I know that the Commission is currently working on a proposal of its own.
However, I ask the Commission – and indeed I personally wrote to Commissioner Frattini on this matter – to have an independent impact assessment conducted with a view to ascertaining whether the benefits of the planned measures justify their cost.
Let me also add a few words on the current process.
As far as the procedural provisions are concerned, I should have liked to see a different form of parliamentary involvement in this sensitive matter.
Data protection, which truly affects every individual and every business, demands a proper legislative process.
Under the EC Treaty, this includes the full participation of the European Parliament.
All of which leads me to conclude that the proposal for a framework directive must be thoroughly overhauled in the light of the criticisms voiced by the European Parliament.
