Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group supports this Council common position despite its evident shortcomings, because we believe that it lays the foundations for creating a fair system of financing, and because it of course also solves the problem that all the previous speakers have referred to: up to now, no provision at all has been made for the new European Union Member States.
The title ‘European Capital of Culture’ provides European cities and their citizens with an attractive opportunity to make themselves known across Europe, and also to display their cultural, scientific, architectural and historical merits and achievements.
Against the background of their application to become a cultural capital, many cities have developed their own development plan, and these development plans, regardless of whether these cities have subsequently been nominated by their countries or not, give a tremendous boost to development.
It leads to work on their infrastructure and to restoration, modernisation and renovation.
Furthermore, it means that opportunities for the development of additional tourism are opened up, opportunities that subsequently also give these cities greater potential for development and a chance to present themselves in an attractive light.
If you take Germany as an example, where 10 cities are applying for 2010, including Potsdam, the capital of my own , Brandenburg, you can see even now, in 2005, the commitment the are showing in their work to present these cities during the preselection period.
I would like to make one comment on the proposal regarding the future competition.
I can very well imagine that it would be possible for each country whose turn it is to nominate at least two cities.
I would not, however, think it would be a good thing to nominate five, six, seven or eight of them – that would be too much.
What we do need, though, is identical preselection criteria in the Member States and in the European Union, meaning that the jury would have to work according to the same criteria.
I think this is extremely important and I therefore think we should pursue this idea.
The title ‘European Capital of Culture’ is one that really is tremendously important for many cities.
