.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the rapporteur has, in my view, tabled an excellent report.
It is short and concise, and it would be a fine thing if the same could be said of the speeches we will go on to hear.
I will do my best to set an example of this myself.
The Vice-President stated that the Commission had already taken a number of steps to promote short sea shipping, and I would ask him to regard the rapporteur’s report as a further invitation to engage in dialogue with a view to implementing further measures to promote this form of shipping.
The Vice-President also referred to a number of other issues, such as simplified customs and administrative procedures and port development.
I should like to focus on just two points.
Firstly, I would be interested to hear whether progress is finally being made with the idea of motorways of the sea.
A good debate on this issue was held in this House last year following a Commission initiative, but I have my doubts as to whether the Member States are doing their bit by proposing projects.
As far as the motorways of the sea are concerned, we only wish to support projects that are useful and workable, and our primary aim must be to ensure that new funding does not have a harmful impact on existing ferry and feeder links.
If a perfectly adequate service has long been in existence, it would be pointless to provide fresh funding to build something new in its place.
I would therefore be interested to hear how things currently stand, and whether any sensible projects for motorways of the sea have already been proposed that you feel able to support.
My second point is that no matter what lengths we go to overall to promote motorways of the sea and short sea shipping, all our good work will be undone if loopholes are repeatedly exploited by lorries.
I have heard reports from the Baltic Sea region that it is a great deal cheaper to transport goods by lorry around the Baltic Sea than to use ferry or feeder services to cross it.
This is due both to the fact that certain EU Member States do not monitor driving and rest periods, and also to the cheap price of Russian diesel.
We must take care not to create something that in practice will be undone by the Member States’ failure to act.
I would ask you to take action and to take on board the ideas contained in the report.
