Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our relations with the United States of America are based on three factors; common interests, common values and competition.
Competition must be organised sensibly, and economic competition is of primary importance.
Our common interests are based on a desire to maximise security; this includes security in foreign policy, the fight against terrorism and other aspects, such as the major environmental issues, which need to be resolved.
Moving on to competition, however, this also means that the major industrial nations of Europe and North America must unite, not at the expense of the poor, but by laying down a joint and fair framework, which is a key prerequisite for a peaceful world.
In spite of the disputes which sometimes arise in connection with practical policies, our core values are the same.
We have fared extremely well in Europe with a combination of these three factors, and it is because these relations were in place that this Europe of ours is, by and large, free today.
We should make it quite plain that we are not building the European Union in opposition to the United States, but to make it strong and enable it to become a partner of the United States once again, as only those who are strong can become partners.
There is, however, another aspect to which thought must be given.
The EU has treaties, association agreements and suchlike with nearly every country in the world, and the Americans have NAFTA, APEC, and others, but apart from NATO no contractual agreements exist between the EU and America.
For this reason, we should ensure the eventual creation of a transatlantic marketplace, which would help us in many ways; for example, in organising competition sensibly and in a way which does not violate multilateral frameworks, in jointly protecting our interests and in standing up for our core values.
I believe this to be one of the main challenges facing us.
Today we adopted the Constitution.
Victor Hugo once said that he dreamed of a Common Assembly which would unite Europe in peace and maintain relations with the other great democracy on the far side of the Atlantic.
I believe that this must be our goal, particularly on a day like today, when we have just voted in favour of the Constitution.
