. –Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, information builds awareness, while the lack of information diminishes consent.
That is what we learn from all Eurostat’s statistics, from our day-to-day experience of the public, from opinion polls at home and, of course, also from what is going on around the directive on the internal market in services and the debate on the Constitution.
In no way is it my intention to apportion blame here today, nor do I want to demand anything of anyone.
It is for the EU institutions themselves to actually back up with actions what we have been saying in reports for years.
At the same time, this is not a task for the institutions, but rather for the members, the Member States, the MEPs, the officials, the Commissioners, and for us ourselves.
So it is that, further to what Commissioner Wallström so rightly said, there are a number of things I would like to demand of this House.
Firstly, I demand that every Commission proposal should, from the very outset, specify in clear and precise terms what added value for the public the European regulation in question represents.
Secondly, I demand that the Commission should submit to the Council a communication and information plan as part of the package when it is required to decide on any and every European project.
Thirdly, I demand a plan for the Europe-wide training and in-service training of journalists, to be carried out by the European institutions.
Let me say, fourthly, that it is the Council, to my mind, that is the principal cause of this public relations disaster.
There was in the Convention a three-year debate on the drafting of the new Constitution, and the Council and the Member States slept through it.
The Council and the Member States are not discharging their shared responsibility in the European legislative process, so let us do so, not least in our own countries, in providing the public with comprehensive and timely information.
Fifthly, I demand of us ourselves that we use the funds we are left with for information and communication.
It is intolerable that – as happened in Austria – an information document should be issued on the Constitution without any reference whatever, whether in word or image, to either the Members of the European Parliament or the Members of the Convention.
I demand that more use be made of visitors’ groups, of exhibition and display facilities and of the translation service, enabling us to actually do the things we want to do.
