.
Mr President, Commissioner, that was a terrific speech you gave us, but I am not sure that you have spoken to all the interested parties in the relevant business circles.
What you have said may well be true of firms like Maersk, the little outfit that has just bought up PNO, but what primarily interests me, and Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou too, is what happens to the small and medium-sized shipping lines whose situation is quite different from that of PNO, and have not been bought up by Maersk or by any of the other big players whom you might care to name.
It is our belief that Regulation (EEC) No 4056/86 cannot be deleted without being replaced.
Yes, of course, Commissioner, it must be adapted; that much is perfectly clear, and we all know it.
It has to be adapted, and the principal object of the exercise must be to do so in such a way that the small and medium-sized companies are enabled to reach agreements on technical matters and to exchange information in order to be able to see where they stand the best chance of succeeding on the world market.
That, Commissioner, is something to which you have paid no attention.
A group calling itself the ‘European Liner Affairs Association’ has come up with some good proposals, which contain not only a markedly more limited exemption, but also unambiguous rules to protect small and medium-sized enterprises.
There is actually a proposal for the opening of discussion forums with participation not only by shipping lines but also by shippers and the other stakeholders in the sector.
We do not want price-fixing any more than we want hostile cartels, and you must never suggest that my colleague Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou does!
What we want is technical agreements that make it possible for small and medium-sized enterprises to survive in shark-filled waters, that is to say, alongside the big conglomerates and alliances.
If such discussion forums are facilitated, there really is a chance of our managing to keep the small and medium-sized shipping industry afloat.
It simply has to be clear to us that, even though our big players dominate business worldwide, we do also have good reason to fear attacks by the Koreans and the Chinese shipping lines.
This, Commissioner, is where we have to do something for European shipping!
