Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is terrific that we have achieved a compromise that has improved the situation as it was.
While it is true to say that energy efficiency is a most important instrument for solving Europe’s energy problem, it is not the only means to that end.
Finding the right ways in which to do this is something that needs to be worked at, and that has been achieved outstandingly well in the compromise reached between first and second readings.
For that I wish to extend warm thanks to Mrs Rothe.
This compromise has managed to take a more realistic view of things, to take differences seriously and to refrain from imposing the same targets on everyone.
It is very important that we should take seriously the differences in the Member States, the options and differences in the various areas, fields and markets, and so I am very glad that the benchmark approach has been adopted and that the Commission has been mandated to further develop it in order to take the various motivations into account.
There is a need for incentives to foster transparency, and a need for less cumbersome bureaucracy, since data for many areas is already available, along with market-oriented thinking, since the suppliers of energy-efficient equipment would then have a sales pitch and a vested interest in the markets for energy-efficient products in the individual states becoming more like each other rather than drifting further apart.
The ability to compare sales figures in each market segment with those of the previous year would then equip them with a readily usable instrument.
The energy efficiency sector affords us a massive opportunity to work towards what is, in principle, a shared goal.
We can now try to move this process forward in another way, and perhaps even faster, in that we rely on the self-interest of the parties involved, treating each as individuals rather than adopting a ‘one size fits all’ approach.
It is for that reason that I hope we can end up achieving better results than we might have done with requirements imposed by a central authority.
