Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I hope, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that you are aware of the increasing impatience with your presidency and of the growing sense of disappointment.
Your period in office may well not yet be at an end, but most of it is already over.
It is not only Tony Blair whose absence we regret, but I do wonder whether he had perhaps recognised at last that there is more to a successful presidency of the Council than two good speeches.
Above all, though, we regret the lack of concrete results, constructive proposals, and serious negotiations with this House in order to resolve problems and hammer out answers to people’s questions.
The only way we will create trust is with a new togetherness and sustainable solutions.
It may be that your Foreign Secretary let something slip when, instead of looking forward, he said, ‘The important thing about this Presidency – Croatia and Turkey – is already behind us.’
Let me ask you this: are those really the things that the people of Europe see as priorities?
Are those really the issues for the people who have no work, or for the Europe that must be made more competitive?
No, I say, they are not.
Perhaps they have their priorities wrong.
Declarations of intent alone do not make for a successful Presidency.
All six of the points that emerged from Hampton Court may well be right, but most of them are not things that the European Union has the powers to deal with.
If you want us to achieve the things that you yourself postulate, then give us the powers, give us the money, and do not stand in Europe’s way as it moves towards political union, or in the way of the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
Let me turn to the Financial Perspective.
Between your proposal and our own there is a difference of EUR 70 billion.
Between your proposal and the Treaty, there is a difference of EUR 2 billion.
Between your proposal and the Commission’s, there is a difference of over EUR 100 billion.
Tell the people what it is that you intend taking away from them before you start pretending to be on their side ...
