Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, there are just a few points I would like to address, but, before I do so, I would like to congratulate you on having put before us such a sound negotiating package.
Both of you have rightly highlighted the need for our trading partners to move forward, and for them to do so to varying extents.
Commissioner Mandelson pointed out that the United States’ agriculture offer was very late in coming, but we also know that the emerging economies will still, in the field of services and also of the liberalisation of industrial goods, need to give indications of coming up with a reasonable package to which we can agree.
Listening to some Members in this House, one feels that we do not actually have any interests of our own, but that the only thing that matters is safeguarding the interests of other countries.
It is essential that we take seriously the message that goes out from this development round and treat it accordingly.
This is indeed a Doha development round, and this time it is intended that priority be given to the developing countries, the poorest above all.
Let us never forget how much the European Union is already doing and how great is its contribution to greater fairness for them.
As the President-in-Office has already said, we have to become aware of the changed landscape of globalisation.
We now have to deal with emerging economies that are aware of their own power, that are global players in economic, social and political terms and want to do what they have to do and play their part.
If they are to do that, though, it is to be hoped that they will take a responsible attitude towards this round.
If we fail to achieve a positive outcome, or at least a favourable indication as to what further negotiations will be like, more bilateral agreements will be needed, and we will see multilateral negotiations falling apart – which, I trust, is not what we want.
There are a couple of important points I would like to address.
Firstly, I hope that we will take the same approach as we did to previous rounds of negotiations; that we will have talks with the Commission, with the two Commissioners dealing with these matters, and with Commissioner Mandelson in particular, but, of course, also with the Council.
It would be nice if you were to say something about that later on.
You are, we know, negotiating within the very tight framework of the mandate you have been given.
In the event of any conflict and of you being required to negotiate outside the framework set by the mandate, it would be right for you, Commissioner, to enter into dialogue not only with the Council, but also with the delegation of this House that will be there with you.
Even though I know you are not bound to do so, it would be good if you were to discuss these matters with them.
Secondly, the European Union will, as it does on every such occasion, be joining with the Inter-Parliamentary Union in holding a separate conference with members from all the various WTO member states present.
We would, of course, be pleased if this body were to be able to have talks with you.
Thirdly, we emphasise every time how much we would like to see, in the declaration of intent that you help to produce, a concluding reference stressing the involvement of the parliaments in these negotiations, by which I mean not the involvement of the European Parliament – that is for us to do – but the involvement of the WTO parliaments as a whole.
I would be delighted if you were, this time, to succeed – with the Council’s support, of course – in getting a statement to this effect incorporated in the WTO’s final statement.
