.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group, too, will be supporting the measures proposed by the Council and the Commission as a means of giving the Iraqi people a chance of a peaceful and democratic future.
I would, though, like to focus on something that Lord Bach said, to the effect that we Europeans want to take a leading role where democracy and human rights in Iraq are concerned.
I have to tell Lord Bach that we must, in that case, have the courage and strength to tell our NATO partners that they must refrain from constantly breaching international law and to ensure that they do not, and we must give an assurance to this effect.
What lessons can we learn from Abu Ghraib and Guantanamo?
To this day, the prisoners in Guantanamo have no rights and no legal protection.
They are kept under appalling conditions.
Can we, then, be all that horrified by the fact that those in positions of power in Iraq are also setting up prisons in secret?
In what sense are the international community and the EU setting a democratic example?
It is no more than cynical for Rumsfeld to enact new rules on torture stating that dogs may no longer, in future, be used in torture and interrogations, with not a word about compliance with the Geneva Convention.
Those are the things about which I expect statements to be made.
Do you know what white phosphorus is?
Do you know about the effects of white phosphorus, which the Americans now admit to having used in Fallujah?
It is a form of arson, with people as its victims, and there is no antidote, no means of putting the fire out – not even water can do it.
It is a means of extermination that is contrary to international law, and it is means such as this that have been deployed.
Lord Bach, you may have spent nine and a half minutes accentuating the positive, but you will carry no conviction unless and until you demand that the EU and the Council – particularly when it is being presided over by the British – commit themselves to getting the Americans to at last sign the international Convention, for unless we do that, we will not regain our international credibility and whatever instruments are applied, no matter with how much effort, will be ineffective.
It is for that reason that I call upon you to ensure that there are not just investigations, but that the Americans also sign the international convention specifically outlawing the use of white phosphorus.
Failing that, we will be unable to actively promote peace in Iraq.
