Mr President, I really do have to quote a great man of letters and say, ‘alas, two souls dwell in my breast’.
On the one hand, six million people every year die of Aids, tuberculosis and malaria; they are from the poorest countries in the world, and they lack medicines that are both effective and affordable.
It is for that reason that the WTO, as long ago as November 2001, decided that its member states could, in emergencies – and I emphasise, in emergencies – abrogate the international patent protection afforded to medicines.
That is why, subject to certain conditions, domestic producers of medicines or other generic manufacturers can apply for a compulsory licence entitling them to manufacture cheaper copies of patented medicines.
That is the good news.
The other side of the coin is that the pharmaceutical research industry invests masses of money in effective and innovative preparations.
Research and development creates jobs, and the work to be done in it can and must be funded by patent protection.
I therefore believe that the principle of patent protection for medicines must not be undermined.
Research into medicines must continue to be worth the effort, since the development of new medicines is in the interests of all.
Only under exceptional circumstances, then, does it really make sense to award compulsory licences.
We must also prevent their being misused, and so the patent holder should be accorded certain information rights, enabling him himself to monitor compliance with licence conditions and to draw attention to breaches of them.
We also have to know what is to be supplied to which countries and in what quantities, and we really do have to prevent cheap copies from finding their way back into Europe by being reimported.
This can be done by, for example, special labelling, packaging or different colours or designs.
Taken as a whole, I regard the proposal on which we are going to vote tomorrow as a reasonable one.
Nobody here regards it as perfect, and so it is probably a good compromise.
