Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this House had the opportunity to discuss this issue in the plenary on 25 October, and the debate on that occasion was a very matter-of-fact one, at which you, Commissioner, announced all the things that you intended to do.
You have also done them, making use of the opportunities for dialogue with other organisations and mounting crisis exercises in Europe, the outcomes of which we shall probably learn about shortly.
It is only natural – as has already been said – that debate should focus on the health of poultry and the need for that to be protected.
I was recently in China, where, as we know, there are 20 billion head of poultry.
The Chinese are absolutely terrified of the possibility that bird flu might spread, and they are also doing something about it, but the question arises of whether we Europeans, both in the past and now, have given states like China, Indonesia and Vietnam good enough advice to enable them to take action in the event of any bird flu epidemic.
The Chinese have now tried to develop anti-bird flu vaccines and they are also working on something for human beings.
I think it is splendid that they are now abandoning the old non-immunisation policy and pursuing one of well-ordered immunisation in specific regions or in the vicinity of hotspots.
I, in my capacity as a veterinarian, have very frequently been called in, in Lower Saxony and elsewhere, to deal with outbreaks of animal diseases, and I know that the right way to go about a vaccination policy is with marker vaccines – I emphasise that they have to be marker vaccines if at all possible – and this is also, I believe, an approach that is in line with what the enthusiasts for animal welfare would have us do.
For my final point, let me reiterate what I said as my final point on 25 October, which was that a pandemic is on the way in any case; the scientists do not know when.
We should, of course, do everything possible to prevent panic breaking out, while also taking every possible step to prevent the virus being transmitted, mutating and infecting humans.
