.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group endorses this own-initiative motion, and also the question to the Commission, to which a clear answer has been given, and I hope that this common strategy will enable us to make headway.
I have been a Member of this House for quite some time and can remember many attempts being made at this.
I also recall the problems to which Mr Belet has just referred.
Technological neutrality is a very important term where competition is concerned.
We had this sort of problem several years ago, when we realised and addressed that the importance of frequency interference with analog broadcasting, could even, to some extent, hamper our development.
I believe we must give a great deal of attention to ensuring that it does not do so.
Along with our group, though, I think it very important that the point again be made that we have to succeed in informing the consumers, the public in the European Union, in a transparent, frank and fair manner, and in good time, for it is they who are meant, in due course, to buy and use this technology, and it is their fears that need to be allayed and their resistance that has to be overcome.
If you go, as I do from time to time, into the relevant shops, you can see what the manufacturers have on offer, for the digital television sets are there already.
The customers have a look at them; they watch a digital-format DVD and enthuse about the picture quality, and then they see an analog TV programme on the same screen and are astonished at how great the difference is.
I believe that, if the public are told about the benefits and are given details of when this changeover is to take place, and if the industry aims for market penetration by charging fair prices for these devices, I am optimistic that we will, by 2010, have caught up with our competitors in this field in other parts of the world.
What I do see as important, though, is that we make sure that we do not miss the boat when taking our people into the digital era.
Quite apart from that, let me say how grateful I am for the customary warm, close and good cooperation with Mrs Barsi-Pataky.
