– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission’s initiative promoting a development strategy for Africa, in the interests of greater coherence for European development cooperation, is, in principle, something to be welcomed.
Up to now, every government has, in its dealings with Africa, pursued its own interests, formulated its own strategies for development cooperation and created its own structures to implement them.
Coherence and improved coordination of aid are, as I see it, very important if we want to make a real contribution to combating famine, preventing violent conflicts and keeping states from disintegrating.
Clear distinctions need to be drawn between the African states in terms of their social, cultural, economic, political and environmental development, and any European development strategy needs to take account not only of this but also of African people’s prospects and of the conditions and processes in their own countries.
Any development strategy for Africa needs to be influenced by the knowledge of Africa’s regional organisations, elected parliaments, the organisations of civil society and trade unions concerning the processes and approaches involved in finding solutions to the maladministration of their own countries and to removing it.
Only then will the criterion of ‘ownership’, on which so much stress is laid in the report, make any sort of sense.
The President of the African Union responded with outrage to the questions he was asked about the tragedy of the refugees in Melilla, and he had every right to do so, saying, as he did, among other things, that these people were not lazy, and that the EU’s, and the USA’s, agricultural subsidies had to be seen as questionable.
The Committee on International Trade, in its opinion, emphasised the importance of, , the abolition of export subsidies as a means of enabling Africa to become an equal partner in world trade, but the Commission’s development strategy, makes no clear commitment to this.
This strategy will make aid more efficient only if it is understood as a guideline for cooperation with the various partner countries.
Any such framework for the EU’s development cooperation must take account of the diversity present within Africa and make use of Africans’ experience and know-how.
Only in that way can this strategy make a real contribution.
