Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to join in thanking Mr Schwab for his excellent work.
I should also like to thank Mrs Weiler and Mrs De Vits, who have shown a high level of commitment and involvement on behalf of my group, thus ensuring that a certain amount of progress has been made in the course of their work with Mr Schwab.
Previous speakers have already referred to such key considerations as health, safety and consumer protection.
These considerations are the basis for the quality characteristics that ensure that products such as machinery are market leaders, and that mean that our manufacturers are able to capture a large global market for their products.
This is very much to be welcomed.
In this context, I can only agree with Mrs Weiler, who said that legal certainty is crucial in this connection.
What legal certainty means is that mechanical engineers know exactly what rules they have to follow and what regulations are actually in force, and that they are not left in the dark.
This in turn would also make it possible for us to have a well-functioning market in this sector.
At the same time, however, legal certainty also means that we must avoid a situation in which several different directives apply to one product.
It means that we should push forward measures to put in place a uniform regime, especially in the case of the tractor directives.
It is far from ideal that manufacturers should have to juggle different regulations, and it is also highly regrettable that we were unable to gain approval for our proposal that this issue should finally be resolved by 2008 at the latest.
This is a real shame.
I have not forgotten that we were told, when we discussed this issue once before with the Commission and the Council at first reading, that the goal was to have everything settled within the next six months.
That was eighteen months ago.
We were told the same during this year’s debate on the issue, namely that it would all be sorted out within the next six months.
I would therefore call on all those involved to ensure that this problem really is resolved without delay.
We should not leave people in the dark, and this includes mechanical engineers.
