Mr President, one of the key elements of this regulation is data requirements for registration.
A very satisfactory compromise has been put before the House on this issue, and it has gained the support of the three main groups in Parliament.
In this context, and addressing my comments in particular to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I should like to reiterate the point that a compromise backed by such a large parliamentary majority is an entirely normal democratic procedure.
Accusations that this House has been hypnotised by the chemical industry are insulting, and we should voice our protest at them.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has always championed a workable version of REACH.
Our key demand is a system that cuts costs significantly for businesses, especially small businesses, and avoids unnecessary red tape, without sacrificing the goals of environmental and consumer protection.
As recently as one year ago, our position was branded industry-oriented; it is now the consensus view.
It involves the introduction of exposure categories, a significant relaxation of the rules for low-tonnage substances and the granting of derogations for research and OSOR.
At the same time, however, the other key element of REACH, namely the authorisation of chemicals, must not fall prey to a political success story where registration is concerned.
The point is that REACH does not only affect the chemical industry, and I say this particularly for Mr Nassauer’s benefit, since this is something he is wont to stress most emphatically.
Instead, it affects all sectors that process chemical substances.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe has retabled the proposal of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy concerning authorisation, since it is eminently sensible.
Businesses need clear criteria in order to comply with legislation and plan ahead.
Hazardous substances should only be replaced if scientific evidence indicates that safe alternatives exist.
Furthermore, a flexible approach must be taken to the temporary authorisation of chemicals, with due consideration for sector-specific product cycles.
