Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what makes our discussion, at European level, of the 2006 budget so exciting is the fact that it is the last budget under the current Financial Perspective, and so, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we are determining what the fundamentals of the 2007 will be like in the absence of a Financial Perspective.
That is something of which I would like to take this opportunity to remind the House, lest we completely lose sight of that fact.
Here in this House, we will also have to embark on something of a rethinking process.
I take the line that we can no longer give more support across the board, but must concentrate on what really has to be done at European level and on the question of how much money can be made available for it.
To Mrs Koch-Mehrin I would say, further to her calculations of how much goes on research and how much on agriculture, that she should take a look at all public budgets, and then she will see what an infinitesimal amount expenditure on agriculture represents in comparison with what is spent on research.
The German Federal budget spends far more on research than it does on agriculture.
When the figures are added up, these all cancel each other out.
In this case, it is we who are responsible, and this budget must reflect that.
The Member States have more responsibilities where research is concerned, and that is why their budgets reflect that.
These calculations do not come out like that.
Let me make it perfectly clear, though, that if we require the Member States to keep to the stability criteria – which means making savings – that means that we in this House cannot go throwing money around all over the place.
Not all Europe’s problems need a line in the European Budget to deal with them.
Parliament will, in future, have to get used to making the sort of financial proposals that are the norm in national parliaments.
If we manage to learn that lesson from the 2006 budget, then we will have achieved a great deal.
