Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have to tell the President-in-Office that the United Kingdom is the main cause underlying the failure of the summit in Luxembourg.
The abandonment by the Heads of State or Government of their responsibility for Europe as a whole, along with their almost daily attempts at renationalisation and at the splitting of the European Union’s policies into internal and European policy are, of course, not your problem alone, but you are constantly provocative, and you also play the blackmail card.
You are here today, and Tony Blair is again absent.
I had good reason for posting him as missing on 12 October.
You are here, and the proposal for the summit follows the debate; a few days ago, you told us that, if we did not agree to what you propose, you would reject everything next year.
That is blackmail.
What have you done over the past six months to combat this concept of the Council’s political role, which is so lacking in solidarity and any sense of responsibility?
It takes more to make a successful presidency of the Council than two performances or rhetorical pyrotechnics by Tony Blair.
On the contrary, they confirm the fact that a gulf lies between speeches and reality, between aims and deeds, between tasks and competences, between what is announced and what is actually achieved, between the dueller’s glove thrown down in writing and the obligations to be found in the Treaties, as well as those of a moral and political nature.
Your mentality is one that I cannot fathom.
How do you tell the public that the want to reduce competitiveness, that you want less money spent on internal and external security, that you will, in 2007, be putting less money on the table than we agreed for the 2006 Budget, that you want to play down Europe’s role on the global stage?
The more arrogant your attitude to the citizens of Europe and to their Parliament becomes, the greater our confidence and determination, and all the greater the rage of the public.
Negotiation is possible only where there is mutual respect; it requires compliance with shared rules and must be between equals.
Far from us being the agents of the governments’ national and individualistic interests, our cause is that of Europe as a community, of an effective and decisive European Union united in solidarity.
We will not allow the future of the European Union to be determined by the success or failure of a Council Presidency or of the Council itself.
It is Parliaments such as our own that must assume leadership and responsibility in view of the vacuum that you are leaving behind you.
