.
Mr President, our being able to present our report to policymakers, among them the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Kallas, makes this a great day for the Court of Auditors.
We are grateful for the responses our activity elicits from policymakers.
Our report shows that considerable improvements have been achieved.
Without doubt, there is a certain amount that remains to be done in some areas, not only by the Commission, but also by the Member States.
The importance of the declarations has already been mentioned, and I can only agree with that, but they are not everything.
What we really should be doing is pressing on to find the source of the errors and seek there the incentive for reforms.
Hundreds of times over, we have done spot-checks and examined transactions.
We have discovered hundreds of errors – errors both of form and of substance.
The Commission knows about these errors, and it will deal with them.
The Member States know about them too.
This is where we should start.
I believe – and I am saying this also for Mr Martin’s benefit – that our mandate is an excellent one; we are satisfied with it, and we need no other.
International comparisons show us in a very good light.
What matters is that our conclusions be taken seriously and acted on in good time.
It is not enough for us to bring in a new system; we also need to make use of it and make it practicable.
What has also become apparent is that the legal framework needs to be simplified.
There are many areas in which no improvements will be made if procedures continue to be so complicated.
I also have to say that, if we apply such rigorous standards to the offices and departments we audit, then we cannot complain if the same standards are applied to us.
It is planned that this should be done through a peer review.
We are always being told that the Court of Auditors wants more audits.
On the contrary, we want no such thing.
We do not want more audits; we want more effective, more efficient audits, from which lessons can be drawn in due course.
