.
Mr President, I rise to speak in place of my colleague and fellow member of the Petitions Committee Mr Schwab, who is, regrettably, unable to be present.
I refer to the budget estimate for the European Ombudsman, which is the Petitions Committee’s responsibility.
The Ombudsman’s functions are of fundamental importance, involving as they do communication with the Community’s citizens and bringing its institutions closer to them.
By examining the growing number of complaints relating to maladministration in the Community, and, where necessary, carrying out inquiries, he ensures that the rights and obligations of our fellow citizens are secured.
His work helps to make the services rendered by the European authorities more transparent and of higher quality.
It is therefore of fundamental importance that the European Ombudsman should be allocated sufficient funds to enable him to perform his functions as efficiently as possible.
The Petitions Committee regards the increase in funding of 3% over against the 2005 budget as appropriate and defensible, particularly in terms of the increase in work across the board resulting from a rise in complaints and communications activity.
The main reason why additional funding is needed, though, is in order to prepare appropriately for the accession to the Community of Romania and Bulgaria, and so we also endorse the call for additional staff to deal with enlargement.
The budget line does also, however, make it possible for the petitioners, that is to say the members of the public to claim, under certain circumstances, the partial reimbursement of up to 80% of their travel costs from Parliament’s budget, subject to the prior approval of the Chairman of the Committee.
Subsistence costs for hotels and other expenses can also be reimbursed.
The Committee believes it to be necessary that such safeguards be put in place, as they have already had a beneficial effect on the Committee’s own capacities and improved its response to European citizens’ needs.
We must not, therefore, be in any doubt about the fact that you cannot have more Europe for less money.
