Mr President, the Commission proposal is both too bureaucratic and too expensive; it harms small and medium-sized businesses and, unless substantially amended, is utterly indefensible.
As it was not these two Commissioners, but rather their predecessors, who presented the proposal, the new change in attitude is to be welcomed.
The second thing I want to say is that the additional proposals brought in by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety may well keep big businesses happy, but they will have no such effect on small ones.
The line taken by the Greens and others, again and again, exemplifies their hostility to small businesses.
There are a number of principles on which certain committees have agreed by large majorities.
The first is that businesses bear responsibility, but must also take precautions.
The second is that the minimum requirements and the available data are more readily accessible; it takes up to 18 months.
Thirdly, assessments should be flexible and on the basis of risk; the exposure and use categories must be accessible right down to the end of the user chain.
Fourthly, voluntary cooperation must be encouraged; there must be no mandatory consortia of the kind that the British Presidency keeps on proposing.
Fifthly, repeated experiments on animals should be avoided.
I shudder at the thought of all the thousands of animal experiments – all of them unnecessary – that would have to be carried out if the proposals from the Greens were to be adopted.
Fair competition must be safeguarded, and one particular way in which this may be done is through the handling of imports, which is the subject of Article 6.
There must be no time limit to authorisation, which must be capable of being reviewed under certain circumstances.
Greater attention needs to be paid to the needs of small and medium-sized businesses.
I would indeed argue that it is only these changes that will make the whole thing a defensible proposition, and I wish to express my gratitude to all those who, in various committees and in various capacities, have worked on it.
It is only when we have a sensible compromise that enjoys general support that this House will be able to wield the clout to which it is entitled, for neither the Commission nor the Council have hitherto been in a position to do so.
