Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to extend my sincere thanks to Mr Sacconi for his excellent work, even if it may well be the case that our opinions on the issue did not always coincide.
At the same time, I should also like to thank Mrs Ek and Mr Nassauer for having drafted key opinions on behalf of other committees consulted.
If I may, I should like to comment briefly on the significance of REACH.
I have had the pleasure of being a Member of this House for 17 years, and I believe that this is one of the largest and most significant reports that we have ever debated in this Chamber.
This report will also have far-reaching implications for health – or at least we hope it will – and for industry.
For once there is a point upon which Commissioner Verheugen and I do not see eye to eye, and I am glad that he is present in the Chamber again.
The new Commission’s work on this dossier has been first-rate, but little information and few explanations were provided when this 1 200-page report was first put before the House.
This meant that a very watered down and bleak version of the debate was presented over the following months by the other parties involved beyond the confines of this House.
I am delighted that we are now well on the way to reconciling REACH’s two priorities, namely consumer protection and industrial policy, since this will ensure that the legislation is genuinely forward-looking and groundbreaking.
It will be hard to ignore the implications of 1 200 pages.
I am delighted that we have managed to incorporate the concept of exposure to chemicals into the report, at least up to a limit of 100 tonnes.
This is exactly the approach I believe should be adopted to draw attention to an issue that lies close to my heart, namely the testing of chemicals in tobacco and cigarettes.
The issue at stake here is neither tobacco nor a ban on smoking; instead, I am calling for nothing other than for tests to be carried out on the hand-mixed chemicals in cigarettes and cigarette papers.
We fear that these substances could be mutagenic, carcinogenic and addictive.
This issue is one of great concern to me, and I would urge the Members of the House to lend it their support.
I should like to thank the rapporteur and draftsmen once again.
