Mr President, the work programme for 2006 gives the European institutions a great opportunity.
It gives us the chance to show the people that we have understood them; that we have understood that the negative outcomes to the referendums in France and the Netherlands had something to do with Europe’s habit of over-regulating and denying people their right to take decisions as adults; that we have understood that all that Europe is meant to do is to set the framework conditions and that it must not get obsessed with detail and interfere in the nation states’ powers and responsibilities.
I welcome the Commission’s promise of better regulation in 2006.
I welcome the references in the introduction to the work programme to better regulation, subsidiarity, cost-efficiency and impact assessments.
I do see the beginnings of good things in the work programme, notably in the fields of growth and security policy, but the overall impression that I get from it is, unfortunately, more of ‘business as usual’ than of ‘better regulation’.
There are three things I would like to mention.
The first is the Financial Perspective.
I find it regrettable that the Commission is taking no active part in resolving this conflict.
I regret the absence of proposals as to how we might, even with less money, pursue an effective structural policy, perhaps with joint funding by the private sector or by means of interest rate subsidies.
Secondly, there are the new directives on the protection of the environment and on the saving of energy.
There are over a dozen items of European legislation on energy efficiency alone.
We ought really to delete three old directives for every new one planned, but nothing is being done along these lines.
Why, thirdly, is Europe laying claim to more and more powers in social matters?
Do we really need a European Green Paper on the rights of married and unmarried couples, such as the one that is planned?
That will make us look ridiculous in the eyes of everyone from Lithuania to Greece.
Despite the many positive approaches that it contains, I have to say, with regret, that work programme does not give the overall impression that we have understood the signals that the people of Europe have been sending.
I call for a more in-depth debate on the legitimacy of European legislation, and for a real start to be made on making over-regulation a thing of the past.
