Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Beckett, I am glad that the Council Presidency is following our debate, and, before I say anything else, I would like to thank my good friend Mr Wijkman for the very ambitious report that he has put together on this subject.
The need for action is simply illustrated by the natural phenomena going on all around us, be it the fires raging through Southern Europe, the hurricanes in America or, indeed, the floods in the Austrian Tyrol, from which I come.
There is one mistake, though, that we cannot allow ourselves: we must be careful not to attribute everything to worldwide climate change or to say that such change is caused only by man-made CO2 emissions and is in some sense our own fault.
It is an unfortunate fact that effects occurring in nature are overlapping with those attributable to human agency; greater efforts must be made to research this area if it is to be possible in future to deliver reliable prognoses of climate development and, above all, to assess the effect of human activity.
It is also important, though, that long-term strategies should be in place to enable us to respond, and in order to give us the security to plan ahead.
It quite simply has to be brought home to business and industry where this road leads and what options will be available to them in the future.
That is of immense importance for Europe as a business location.
Let us also bear in mind the fact that the Community is currently responsible for only 14% of CO2 emissions, and so it is vitally important that not only the developing countries, but also, of course the USA – which is the principal source of emissions – should be brought on board.
The point in the report that needs to be underlined several times over is the one that says: ‘we need a global strategy’.
I have to say that I am not in agreement with my colleagues as regards nuclear energy, which I do not regard as an alternative to those technologies that produce CO2, since its long-term effects are too negative.
Most of all, we must not offer it to the developing countries as an alternative, quite simply because it cannot be safely used in them.
It is also important that we give more attention to transport and attempt in that area simply to make full use of the potential for CO2 reduction.
