.
Mr President, I too am glad that we are having this debate today; let it be an unmistakeable shot across the bows of the President and of the Conference of Presidents, for without it, a dangerous precedent would have been set.
On Thursday, the Conference of Presidents was giving it as its opinion that the Western Sahara was one of the three most pressing human rights problems with which we had to deal, and there was no dissent from this view even on Monday.
Then an ambassador did the rounds of this place, and, shortly afterwards, it turned out that a delegation was on its way.
That would have created a precedent.
The next thing might then have been that a human rights issue could have been arbitrarily wiped off the order of business because of a dinner with Mr Putin, and the time after that it would have been because of lunch with the Chinese Consul-General or some such reason, and it would have kept on like that.
That is something that no group here in this House can tolerate.
Let me move on to the matter in hand.
I am very much a friend of Morocco, and I do indeed believe that both sides share responsibility for this conflict.
Both Morocco and the Western Sahara were victims of colonialism, the colonial powers having simply drawn their borders in the desert with a ruler, and that is why the issue is a problematic one, one that can be resolved only through negotiation and mutual agreement.
It is in the interests of both sides that our delegation should be able to do its work there without let or hindrance; that is indeed a minimum and something that should go without saying.
It is monstrous that the threat should be made that it might not be allowed to do so.
While we respect both sides, and want to do our bit in establishing peace, it must be clear beyond doubt that peace is possible only on the basis of law, which, in this case, means international law, with particular reference to human rights.
There can be no peace negotiations without unconditional adherence to human rights or without all political prisoners being released.
That is why we stand ready as a partner and as an intermediary; that is why our good offices are at the parties’ disposal.
We will not take one side or another – the European People’s Party will certainly do no such thing – but we are not mincing words when we express our view that human rights are human rights, that political detainees are political detainees, and that, if there is any real desire for a solution to this knotty problem, these latter must be set at liberty with neither ifs nor buts.
