.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, urban policy and urban areas are becoming more and more important.
The report was explicitly drafted as a response to enlargement, which had made these problems even more acute.
Let me just remind you that there are in the Central and Eastern European states vast districts full of buildings made of large panels, and with all the problems, both in building and social terms, that are associated with them.
Apart from the Structural Funds, though, there are scarcely any instruments capable of being used to address the problems of urban areas, so, while there are indeed means available to the new Member States whereby they may, with the help of the European Union, monitor and support their urban policies, I would stress that urban development is problematic not only in the new Member States, but also, of course, in the old ones.
I see this as a topic that we will have to revisit in the future if we are, given the need for them, to develop instruments with which the European Union can address certain problems.
We may not – as Mr Beaupuy rightly said – have any powers or responsibilities where urban policy is concerned, but to act as if urban problems were not problems for Europe as a whole would be to ignore the facts of the situation, and so I agree with the rapporteur’s idea that urban policy should be given a broader, horizontal approach, with the Commission being called on to take appropriate action.
I do think, though, that it makes a great deal of sense to proceed with great moderation when it comes to changing this House’s Rules of Procedure, and it is for that reason that my Group has tabled an amendment on the subject.
Far from opposing urban policy, we are in fact very strongly in favour of it, but we are opposed to altering the Rules of Procedure.
The idea of amending the Rules of Procedure resurfaces from time to time, but I do believe that this would be the wrong way of going about decisions on urban policy.
Perhaps I might be permitted to touch on another point that may well not have any direct relevance to Mr Beaupuy’s report.
Commissioner Hübner explained what the Council is working on at the moment.
I can do no other than urge the Council and the Commission to come to a decision as quickly as possible on the Financial Perspective and thereby give us a framework, which should as soon as possible have the relevant projects attached to it, for if they do not, we will be unable to implement the Cohesion Policy for the period from January 2007 onwards and will be unable to deal with the problems in the new Member States’ urban areas.
We need a decision from the Council as soon as possible, and that decision should coincide as far as possible with those taken by Parliament.
