.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission too believes that this was an important and persuasive debate.
At the risk of repeating myself, what mattered to us was to find a solution, or to help find a solution.
It is impossible to make everyone happy in a case such as this one.
There can be no such thing as a true compromise between those who are afraid of losing their jobs and of what the future brings, and those who are worried about the health of their children.
A perfect compromise is an impossibility, and indeed compromise by its very nature means meeting one another halfway.
This comment is directed at those on both sides who voiced controversial opinions during this debate.
In my opinion, it would be wrong to want to lay down rules the like of which the world has never seen before with no thought for the competitiveness and future prospects of one of Europe’s most important industries.
At the same time, however, it would also be wrong for us not to do everything in our power to achieve the best possible outcome for the health of our fellow citizens and for the environment in which they live.
The Commission would like to reiterate its belief that the compromise on the table strikes a good balance, and I must once again protest most vigorously against accusations that this proposal waters down the objectives contained in the Commission’s original proposal.
As I see it, it should be left up to the Commission to decide what it thinks of the amendments that have been made to its proposal.
We are debating a Commission proposal, and the Commission does not believe that the amendments that have been tabled before the House weaken or water down its proposal.
Instead, it believes that the proposal’s real objectives have in fact been strengthened.
I would point out that requirements have even been made more stringent in the low-volume, 1-100 tonne category, which covers the most substances and is therefore the most crucial.
At the same time, however, it is also true that practical tools have now been found that will make it easier for businesses, and especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to contend with this extremely demanding body of legislation.
Several of the speakers referred to the fact that the chemical industry in Europe is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises.
This is a point I should like to make to those Members who have responded to proponents of other views by saying that the compromise before us, or the solution laid out therein, represents a setback for the interests of the large-scale chemical industry in Europe.
This is nonsense, not least because the chemical industry in Europe is not controlled by large companies.
You will no doubt be amazed to hear that the average chemical company in Europe employs only 74 people.
What this means is that the structure of this industry is very much dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises, and we must think very carefully about the demands we should and should not place on businesses.
No one anywhere has experience of implementing a body of legislation like this, and we should be aware from the outset that only practical experience will reveal whether our assumptions are right or wrong.
We should remain open to improvements, not only during these debates, but also during the implementation phase that will follow them.
On behalf of the Commission, I can assure you that we will not shirk our responsibility, in particular as far as the agency is concerned.
The latter will in fact have to carry out the bulk of the work, and the Commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that it can get down to work as quickly and as effectively as possible.
