.
Mr President, it was at the beginning of October that the 28-year old monk Ngawang Jangchub died in his cell in the Drepung monastery.
His death resulted from his interrogation by cadres of the campaign for so-called ‘patriotic education’.
The object of this is that critics of the regime should be brought back into line by means of drastic physical and mental re-education measures.
Over 10 000 monks and nuns in Tibet have been obliged to undergo brainwashing since 1996, something that constitutes a flagrant breach of freedom of opinion and religion.
The intention is that threats, periods of detention, and torture should induce the inhabitants of monasteries to denounce the Dalai Lama, in writing as an enemy of the state and a separatist.
Mrs Lynn has already described how, on 23 November, Chinese security forces occupied the Drepung monastery near the capital, Lhasa.
When they arrested five senior monastics, 400 monks mounted a peaceful demonstration for their release.
The police and special units responded promptly to this by sealing the monastery off from the outside world for days on end.
Are human rights resolutions adopted by this House a matter of indifference to the Chinese?
It is evidently not enough for them that the Commission, Commissioner Verheugen, and the Council should intervene.
Or are they no more than footnotes to the loudly-heralded dialogue between the EU and China?
Speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, let me remind the House of our debate in October, on which occasion we demanded, as a matter of urgency, an improvement in the conditions under which the highly regarded Lama Tensin Delek Rinpoche were being held, which were putting his life at risk, in order to make it possible for him to receive a fair trial.
The United Nations Special Rapporteur on Torture, Manfred Nowak, has just published the results of his inspection of Chinese prisons, labour camps and police stations.
He confirms that torture is taking place, and that prisoners and persons regarded as suspect are being mistreated.
The effect of the Chinese system of re-education through work is that people can be sent, without a court having passed sentence upon them, to a camp for up to three years.
That is a manifest offence against their personal integrity and against the dignity of every human being.
