Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have just heard that mechanical engineering is a crucially important sector of the European economy.
Although this is the case throughout the European Union, there can be no question that it holds particularly true in my home country.
An interesting point that should therefore be stressed in this connection is that this Directive was drafted, , in response to calls from industry, which went to a great deal of effort to get this Directive on the table, with the slogan of ‘one product, one regulation for the internal market’.
It goes without saying that this is a positive development, given that one of the advantages of this legislation is that the same type of machinery, with the same design, can be put into circulation anywhere in the internal market.
Additional tests in the various EU Member States would of course be unnecessary.
On the occasion of this second reading, and with the debate on the Services Directive in mind, I should like to make the following comment.
If we were always to take this approach as our starting point for debates on the Services Directive, we would doubtless also make progress with that dossier.
In this connection, I cannot help but mention that mechanical engineering in Europe is in fact particularly dependent on the Services Directive, because services as well as products are sold with machinery.
While on the subject, I should like to make a second comment of a political nature.
It has been reiterated during today’s debate that this Directive was a very long time – five years, to be precise – in the making.
For most of this time, the European Union had only 15 Member States.
As we are all aware, the EU is now operating with 25 Member States.
In view of this fact, and also in view of the planned reduction in the number of regulations, it should be noted that it will probably take a great deal longer to reach agreement on similar regulations in the future, and both industry and the political bodies responsible for such matters should be aware of this fact.
The principle of ‘less is sometimes more’ also applies in this instance.
If I may, therefore, I should like to emphasise once again how much I welcome this Directive.
