.
Mr President, if you look hard enough on the map of the Horn of Africa, you find a little island of stability called Djibouti.
All around it, the situation is precarious.
Somalia scarcely exists as a state any more; the domestic situation in Eritrea is highly critical, with the opposition suppressed, and in Ethiopia, the situation after the elections is exactly as the EU’s principal observer, Mrs Gomes, has described it.
Not only that, but Ethiopia is subject to the destabilising influence of Eritrea, which we know to be supporting guerrillas fighting in Ogaden, and the border conflict between Eritrea and Ethiopia is still threatening to erupt into open warfare.
Today, here in this House, we are focusing on the domestic situation in post-election Ethiopia, and so the demand we have to make is no vague one: we must call upon the government to desist from deploying disproportionate force to suppress the opposition and the general population, and must release all political prisoners and journalists without delay.
I heard recently that three more had been arrested, so the most up-to-date state of affairs is that 15 journalists are in custody.
The International Red Cross must also be given access to the camps in which so very many people are being held.
The country’s prime minister has again said that he will not only put the political leaders on trial, but also the 3 000 other detainees with them, and that there would be no mercy whatever – not even a Christmas amnesty.
As the Ethiopian Government is quite clearly bent upon confrontation, we call on the European Union to give thought to the possibility of imposing – as we already do against other regimes – targeted sanctions against those in power in Ethiopia, which would, I believe, send out a clear signal.
If these people are no longer permitted to travel to Europe on shopping trips, perhaps it will also dawn on them that they can no longer count on our support, and that we have no confidence that they are leading their country in the right direction.
