Mr President, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I can echo what Mr Bösch said.
I think we are oversimplifying things if we say that, as 80% of funds are administered by the Member States, it is for them to see to it that everything is in order.
We have indeed had problems over recent years, and it is true to say that they led to the Commission standing down in 1999, but none of them had to do with resources managed at national level – all of them, on the contrary, were administered by the Commission itself.
We, in the Terence Wynn report – and let me make this quite clear – said that we wanted to involve the national and – where they exist – provincial Courts of Auditors in the discharge procedure.
Looking today at the way in which things are done at the national and European levels, it is clear to me that the two are incompatible.
Do not misunderstand me: I object to the idea that what we in Europe do, those things that you are there to do, Mr President of the Court of Auditors, should be handed over to the national systems; instead, we should be giving some thought, where the auditing framework is concerned, to doing things the other way around.
There is room for improvement in Europe, too, and we can certainly learn from the Member States.
What is needed is for the Heads of State or Government to be astute enough and wise enough to provide the legal framework that is needed to make that possible.
It is not your problem, Mr Weber; it is a problem for those from whom you receive your mandate, and that is not us, but rather the Heads of State or Government.
Speaking, among other things, as a Member of the Committee on Budgets, let me say quite plainly that we need to denounce the attitude they adopt, of not wanting to pay anything into the EU, of wanting their own countries to get as much back as possible out of it, while not wanting to let anyone in Brussels see what is going on.
It is this attitude that we have to deal with; that is where we have to make a start.
If we do, we will really have done something for Europe, for its credibility and for its people.
The Court of Auditors’ report is important, but not crucial; what is crucial is what we in this House do with it.
I look forward to the debates in the Committee on the Control of Budgets and to the discharge procedure, which will be completed early next year.
