. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we very much welcome the push for a joint statement by the Council, the Commission and Parliament expressing a consensus on European development policy.
What has emerged from the trialogue is a good initiative, and it is, procedurally speaking – as has already been noted – somewhat uncharted political territory, so we are again particularly grateful to Mr Wijkman for having done such efficient work in the trialogue for the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and for this House and for having produced this fine report.
This report and this consensus can be a significant step closer to more coherence in European development policy.
There is, after all, a great deal of consensus in this House as to what its objectives are, and on the pre-eminent importance of combating poverty, which is not just about pushing poverty back, but also about uprooting it, establishing social justice, creating equal opportunities for development and achieving the Millennium Development Goals.
So much for the theory: we have to be clear in our own minds that the practice falls a long way short of that.
The new ‘Human Development Report 2005’ tells us that the number of people living in absolute poverty is continuing to increase dramatically.
It is right, then, that we should concentrate our efforts on investment in food safety, education, health and social security.
The developing countries need to be helped to go their own way; they need to keep control over their own development strategy, and so it is right that the principles of ownership and partnership should be centre stage.
The European Union must scrutinise all policy areas in terms of their impact on development, especially the policies relating to trade, agriculture and fisheries.
That is the theory; now, in practical terms the policies of twenty-five countries need to be more closely coordinated.
We would like to see more coordination on the part of the Commission and the Council and more co-decision for Parliament.
