Mr President, I have a motion in relation to the agenda.
On behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, I move that the Commission should, in the course of this part-session, make a statement on its position in relation to the European social model, and we move that this statement be delivered jointly by Commissioner McCreevy and Mr Barroso, the Commission’s President.
By way of justification for this, let me say that, unless we have been misinformed, Commissioner McCreevy, in Sweden, gave the world the benefit of his views on the European Social Model, stating that the Scandinavian model of the European welfare state is not one that the Commission regards as compatible with the European internal market.
If that is what the Commission thinks, then they can reckon with determined resistance from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
I now gather that they can count on resistance from other groups, the Greens among them, and we are very glad to hear it.
When it comes to fashioning a social Europe, the Scandinavian model is one of the fundamentals on which we Europeans can rely, and so it is quite utterly unacceptable that the President of the Commission should assert to this House in every one of its sittings that he defends the European Social Model and then goes on to allow his Commissioners to go about saying the very opposite.
That is not on!
Our group therefore asks that the Commission should make this statement.
The summit at which the European Social Model is to be considered is now only a few days away.
If it is to turn out to be the social model favoured by Commissioner McCreevy, then I can tell you on behalf of the Socialist Group in this House that the Commission had better prepare for stormy weather, for there will then be a fight about the direction that this European Union of ours is to take, and you can take it from me that it will not be going Mr McCreevy’s way!
We demand that the Commission should not delay in clearly stating where it stands on this.
