.
Mr President, Commissioner, there has already been frequent reference in this debate to the Lamfalussy procedure.
One ought really to be grateful to the British Presidency, for the tenacity with which the British, whose country is regarded as the cradle of democracy – something to which Mr Karas has already alluded – have fought over a point already agreed on in the ‘Basel II’ directive by the Commission, the Council and Parliament is astounding.
If, though, you want to reinforce Parliament’s rights and campaign for that, you cannot but be grateful that every further action of this kind makes this House even more firmly united in the conviction that this is something about which we cannot give way.
The issue is that of how we handle the Lamfalussy procedure in future.
There is also the question as to how seriously the Council is taking this.
Had the British Presidency made even an attempt at doing something – perhaps with the aid of the ‘Friends of the Presidency’ – about sorting out the new inter-institutional agreement, and expended less energy on getting this through as it stood, we would be a good deal further ahead today.
What I have to say to the Commission is this: we inserted a date into the ‘Basel II’ directive; that date was 1 April 2008, and until then this House will be backing the Lamfalussy procedure and comitology.
We want to support it even after that date, but we do need agreement by then.
Let me say, for the benefit of all those whom the news has not yet reached, that we will incorporate this sunset clause in all subsequent directives.
When new proposals come from the Commission, we will not allow ourselves to be limited to considering only whether or not individual dates should be changed, but will instead claim the right to consider any directive that gets as far as this House in its entirety.
We hope that the Commission will exert appropriate influence on the Council – indeed, we rely on it doing so.
I am looking particularly to the Austrian presidency to secure us a solution that at last does justice to all the institutions and enable us to get back to doing our work properly.
