.
Mr President, when considering the case of Somalia, I think it is worth taking something of a backward look into its history.
What the West did to Somalia involved the application of every bad policy imaginable.
Let us recall the intervention in 1993, which ended up as a fiasco.
Germany had stationed troops there, who were meant to be supporting Indian troops, but these never actually turned up.
We have to face up to the fact that, as soon as the troops were withdrawn, there was scarcely any interest in Somalia any more.
Things in Somalia have now rearranged themselves.
The coalition, whose members are described as Islamists, have, slowly but surely, achieved military dominance, and the troops that the press describe as being supported by the USA – the Warlords Alliance, that is – have been pushed further and further back.
It is obvious that the US administration, in particular, has backed the wrong horse and now sees its own policies in virtual ruins.
The question now arises as to what the European Union can do about this state of affairs.
It would be quite utterly wrong to support one of the parties to the conflict on the ground, and it needs to be stressed above all that since, at the moment, Ethiopia and Eritrea have a manifest and considerable interest in using Somalian territory as a place in which to settle their differences by force of arms, it is very important that the European Union should, through diplomatic channels, make it perfectly plain to both of them that this is just not on.
As things stand at present, I see absolutely no sense whatever in foreign military intervention in Somalia, within which there are certain regions that are stable; Somaliland is one of them.
For that reason, no troops must be sent, nor must there be any support for the deployment of them, or else we will again end up with what has come to pass often enough already, namely, the creation of a Frankenstein’s monster, for support was given to this or that grouping, which then did the very thing that it was intended should be avoided.
I therefore urge that any action there on the part of the European Union be diplomatic in character.
