– Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, this decision by the Commission and the Council is one that I regard as inevitable, and one that I welcome.
I regret certain of the interventions made during the last half hour and regard them as excessively partisan.
This House, like Europe, has supported the idea of the Palestinian people having a state of their own for longer than anyone can remember, but we have now reached a point at which it has to be spelled out that no democratic election can legitimise terrorism, anti-Semitism and racism; no democratic election can legitimise a constitution that incites genocide and teems with Nazi slogans, references to Jewish world conspiracies such as that of the Elders of Zion, and similar Nazi propaganda.
That is no basis on which Europe can negotiate and grant aid.
Israel’s misdeeds – or whatever you want to call them – its mistakes, its use of violence, are not capable of being compared with the quite fundamental historical issue that we have come up against here.
I welcome this stance.
In order that this conflict be resolved, much has been demanded of Israel, and much remains to be demanded of it.
It is necessary not only that Israel should recognise the Palestinian state, but also itself bring it into being and make it viable.
It must vacate the illegally occupied territories, hand over East Jerusalem, do away with the death lists, relax its economic stranglehold and hand back the territory it gained by building the wall.
The list could well become an endless one, but there is one thing that must never again be demanded of Israel, and that is that it should bargain for its very existence with a government whose manifesto included the annihilation of the Jews and the destruction of Israel, a government that declared, immediately on being elected, that it would not lose sight of that goal, that it was – of course – not daft, that it would pursue its objective pragmatically and step by step, and that it would not, of course, not make it too obvious to the West that that was what they were about, and yet that is what they want to do – and today we have got to the point where this has to be said loud and clear; thank you for having done just that.
