– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as this debate has also shown, the resolution of the Iranian nuclear issue remains a central concern of the EU and of the international community in general; for doubts as to the peaceful nature of this nuclear programme are indeed justified.
I should like to emphasise once more, however, something that has been mentioned by many speakers in this House: that the EU remains committed to a diplomatic solution to the Iranian nuclear issue within a multilateral framework, in particular within the framework of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
That is an important point to emphasise.
We believe that the Russian proposal to build a Russian-Iranian uranium-enrichment facility on Russian soil would be a good alternative to enrichment in Iran: this solution has the full support of the EU.
Some have said that Austria should take the initiative, but I am, of course, speaking here in my capacity as representative of the Council, and as such I represent the position held by the Council as a whole, irrespective of any national positions.
However, as many speakers have mentioned – for which I am grateful – it is also important to bear in mind that the issue of Iran’s nuclear programme is not the only one that is important and fundamental to our relationship with that country, and which must be resolved if we are to improve our relations with its Government, with its President.
There is also the human-rights issue.
I should like to remind the House that, since 1975, Iran has been a party, without reservation, to both the UN International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the UN International Covenant on Economic, Social, and Cultural Rights.
Iran therefore has a clear obligation under international law to comply with the requirements of these important agreements.
Finally, I should like to confirm that I share the opinion expressed by Mr Brok and others that we must of course continue the dialogue with the forces in Iran who are favourably disposed to peaceful coexistence and to compliance with the country’s obligations.
We intend to do so; of course we are willing to engage in dialogue.
It must be made quite clear, however, that we must not allow this dialogue to be abused, and so we have to be very careful in our choice of dialogue partners.
The issue of promoting civil society in Iran also seems to me to be particularly important in this regard.
