.
Mr President, it is most appropriate that we should be debating this today, and that we can expect it to be adopted by a large majority tomorrow, for the EMSA is to be officially opened, in Lisbon, on 14 September, and it will not be able to do its work properly without a sound financial basis.
I believe that that is what we are establishing by means of this regulation for funding action in response to maritime pollution.
As has frequently been said, we regard EUR 154 million from 2007 to 2013 as the very least that is required, and we will also, over this period, look carefully to see what improvements might have to be made.
I can assure Mrs Haug that we are already keeping an eye out to see that nothing is wasted and to ensure that, on the contrary, it is properly funded and is taking the proper steps.
What it clear is that the Member States will not be discharged from their responsibilities.
All the EMSA can do is to support them and supplement what they do.
It has to be emphasised that maritime pollution is not just something that happens as a result of disasters.
We know about the ‘Prestige’ and ‘Erika’ disasters, but our seas are being fouled day in and day out by illegal discharges of oil; if the environmental protection organisations are right in their calculations, these happen 3 000 times a year in European waters.
Something must be done about this, and I very much hope that the satellite monitoring system that the EMSA is to help set up will enable us to make a better job of dealing with the criminal acts in our waters.
Another cause for rejoicing is that the rapporteur, who was rather unwell before the summer, is back with us again, so that we can, so to speak, join with him tomorrow in getting this regulation on the road, and that he has, together with the Council, managed to come up with some good solutions, for which we are very grateful, and we have got this done and dusted at first reading stage, with no need of a conciliation procedure.
To sum up, our adoption of this regulation tomorrow will see this House and the Council making an important contribution towards clean and better protected seas in Europe.
I hope that this demonstration of Europe’s concern for clean waters will lead the public to value the European Union more highly.
