Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Zeus should declare his feelings for his lover Europa: that was my plea six months ago at the start of the Austrian Council Presidency.
His wife at home must be blind if she cannot see that there is quite some activity outside the marital home.
A great deal of pomp and flashing lights, a great deal of silver and porcelain, distinguished guests, one important engagement after another, and now even a meeting with George W. Bush.
There is never a dull moment with Europa.
What kind of a figure does this Europa cut on the international stage, however?
Is she a strong, self-confident woman with the support of those around her, a woman who we believe to be capable of guiding us safely through difficult times?
Do we believe in Europa, or do we see a figure plagued with self-doubt, who does not know her role in this society, in this network of connections between individual countries?
What is it we want from Europa?
What do we expect of her?
We certainly have a clear idea.
We believe that Europa should protect us from poverty, should provide security, should ensure that we do not have to live from hand to mouth, but instead are able to put something aside both now and in the future, should not let others treat her like a child in the global village, and should set an example.
Expectations of Europe run high, but we do not believe it capable of meeting any of them.
This explains the great scepticism that registers on the Eurobarometer.
At the present time, Europe is completely incapable of meeting the expectations of the public – the Council gives it far too little scope to do so, and the Commission keeps it occupied with tasks that increasingly alienate it from the European public.
No one understands Europe.
What does it spend all its time doing anyway?
The essentials remain undone – that message, at least, is conveyed – and so discontent grows.
Europe urgently needs a new master plan with projects focused on the citizen.
It needs to become less ponderous, needs to develop an image.
This is impossible when the Council Presidency rotates biannually.
One goes, another takes its place; this is a ‘halfway house’, not a safe home.
I know that things would be different if we had the Constitution.
This will not be the case in 2007, however – and so I ask that the Summit produce clear competences and greater efficiency for Europe.
If it does this, even the public will give the green light for the Constitution.
