. – Mr President, actions speak louder than words, and I want to thank Mrs De Keyser most warmly for her very compact report, which considers every angle, not least the imbalance of power between women and men as the cause of many conflicts.
While we see women as both perpetrators and victims, we also see solutions, and it is most important that we should recognise that women are often among the first victims of conflicts between states or within them, since they are among the weakest members of society, yet, paradoxically, they find themselves playing the role of the strongest in coping with conflict situations.
It was women searching through the rubble of a Germany devastated after the Second World War who were the driving force behind that country’s reconstruction, and yet they were, true to form, again excluded from political responsibility.
Wherever in the world there is war, the norm is that women become the victims of sexual violence.
In countries such as Iraq and Palestine, they are excluded from assuming political responsibility; in the conflict in Sudan, sexual violence is getting out of hand.
For social democrats such as ourselves, then, it is for this reason that the participation of women, through gender mainstreaming, in all missions, as described in UN Resolution 1325, is so enormously important.
We want them to have an equal say in all areas of diplomatic policy even before conflicts set in.
It is an unfortunate fact, Commissioner, that only three EU missions around the world are headed up by women.
Our group is continuing to work on this issue, and we will be using the Gomes report to pursue at greater depth in the diplomatic field, an issue that is of enormous importance for us as a group.
We have been addressing the issues of reproductive health, of suicide bombings, and of anti-personnel mines, from the after-effects of which women and children continue to suffer.
What we can be sure of is that this report shows us not only that women are better people, but we want to get actively involved in playing our part, we want to play it ourselves, and this is where Europe must lead the way.
