. – Mr President, it is indeed a good thing that this House is so determined and consistent in giving its attention to the problems and concerns of the Western Balkans.
That testifies to wisdom and reliability, and, as we have heard again today, the Council and the Commission are also standing by their own commitments, but – and this is something that we all, repeatedly, join in emphasising – progressive integration into Europe will depend, above all else, on progress in the individual countries themselves.
Ten years on from the Dayton Accord, there is a desperate need for change in the situation in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in the country’s status, and so we are glad to hear that the newly-appointed High Representative, Mr Schwarz-Schilling, believes that his most important task is to make his own role redundant.
It is possible for democracy to put down roots and develop in the long term only – and Mr Winkler emphasised this today – if it is underpinned by being owned by those who live in a given place.
This has a lot to do with acceptance of one’s own responsibility, not only for the past, but also for a shared future.
External support on the way to this goal is a good thing and may well continue to be needed for some time, and the EU must be aware of that, not least in its financial and structural decision-making.
What we do not want, though, is for constitutional changes and administrative reforms – urgently needed though they are – to be forced through by bilateral agreements entered into at haste.
The risk then is of a second Dayton, or rather of what would be a Washington Accord, under which local people would take on no responsibilities whatever.
As Bosnia-Herzegovina draws closer to Europe, its civil society, which still too often faces hostility from every side, will need to be reinforced.
There is a need for dialogue between the three ethnic groups as equals, and discrimination in access to education, employment and housing needs to be done away with.
It is the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina themselves who will need to work towards these goals, but they will need our support in doing so, and today’s resolution is intended to help make sure that they get it.
