.
Mr Mitchell’s question is, of course, very relevant to the present situation, and it is one that I am very happy to answer.
Over recent months, of course, the Council has considered this issue in very considerable depth and, ever since the start of diplomatic efforts at resolving it, has adopted conclusions on the subject, most recently on 15 May.
It appears to me to be quite vital to underline the fact that one of its concerns in doing this was to present the European Union as maintaining a united front, for any sort of long-term effect on Iran is dependent on its being seen to do that by the outside world.
What that means is that the fact that these negotiations have, in the last few months, been in the hands of three Member States, should not conceal the fact that the Council as a whole, and Mr Solana, the High Representative, as well, have constantly been not only informed about them, but also involved in them, supporting them and endorsing the relevant conclusions.
We have repeatedly expressed our profound regret at the Iranian Government's failure to take the steps regarded as necessary by, in particular, the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency and the Security Council of the United Nations and at its threatening, until recently, to continue to refuse to take them.
We have appealed to the Iranian Government to cooperate unconditionally with the IAEA.
The Council has not disputed Iran’s right to use nuclear energy in a peaceful manner in accordance with its obligations under the Non-Proliferation Treaty, and, on the basis of the August 2005 proposals, reiterated in the February 2006 conclusions, the EU would be prepared – and it still is – to support the development of a safe and sustainable civil nuclear programme consonant with the principles of non-proliferation, provided – and this is the other side of the coin – that full account is taken of the wishes of the international community and its confidence restored as regards Iran’s intentions.
The Council is still determined to bring about a peaceful solution by diplomatic means, and I believe that it has communicated and reiterated that in very clear terms to the world at large.
The EU would welcome it if it were to be able to develop its relations with Iran on the basis of trust and cooperation.
A few days ago, as you will be aware, the High Representative, Mr Solana, presented Iran with an offer package from the European Union that was also endorsed by the other Members of the Security Council – something that strikes me as particularly relevant – and the initial responses to it can be described as cautiously positive.
We hope that this offer – which is a good one – will serve as a basis for achieving a peaceful resolution of this conflict, and that this potentially dangerous issue will very soon be off the agenda, so that we can achieve a comprehensive agreement and understanding with Iran, thus in turn making it possible for our relations with it to be developed in all areas.
