– Mr President, I, too, should like to congratulate the rapporteur on his very good report.
In its 65 points, he addresses the many areas and factors that will be necessary to provide more and better aid.
He discusses the innovative sources of financing for development and the need for an approach involving debt relief, in order to give the developing countries greater room for manoeuvre in the fight against poverty, and, of course, he also stresses that there needs to be consistency between the various policy areas.
Our aid will only be effective if there is greater consistency between the policy areas.
It is clear that efficiency must not undermine the necessary accountability.
Precisely at a time when ever greater resources are being devoted to development cooperation as direct budget aid, sufficient resources are needed to build an independent and critical civil society.
If the donor countries want to make their aid more effective, they are in many domains dependent on non-governmental organisations in order to ensure that the aid provided is actually used to reduce poverty, and that it does in fact reach the poor and disadvantaged in the partner countries.
The Member States must keep to the commitments they have made regarding the funding of development aid, in other words 0.56% of their gross domestic product in 2010 and 0.7% in 2015.
In this connection, it is important to note that debt relief should not be included in these calculations.
According to the most recent figures from the OECD's Development Assistance Committee, in 2005 the European Union identified debt relief for Iraq and Nigeria, in particular, as development aid, despite the fact that the Monterrey Consensus explicitly states that financial resources provided for debt relief should not come from development aid funds that are normally intended to be directly available for developing countries.
The European Parliament therefore calls on the Member States to draw up an accurate list each year, clearly showing the contributions provided directly for development aid.
As the rapporteur said, aid from the European Union and the Member States must be coordinated in a complementary way and be consistent.
Many of the partner countries are overwhelmed by the number of donors: parallel projects often result in an unnecessary duplication of structures and sometimes even hinder progress.
It will only be possible to solve this problem by means of better coordination between the development cooperation of the Community and that of the Member States.
The report proposes a working group in which representatives of civil society should be involved.
Specific case studies should be used to show what is already working and where a great deal of work still needs to be done.
