Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, it has been a lively morning.
Let us continue in that vein.
Like many other people, I am convinced that Europe would be better off if you were seated on the other side this morning, if you were President of the Commission rather than just the temporary President of the Council.
In the very limited time at your disposal, you cannot hope to perform any great exploits, but it is certainly possible to set the tone in areas such as energy and subsidiarity.
In the financial realm too, you can achieve something.
But please do not let yourself be led astray by those with a historically proven inability to handle money.
Do not believe that more money automatically brings better results.
The money is actually there.
We do have EUR 112 billion.
The only question is what is done with it.
You said yourself, Chancellor, that the question was the most important thing.
You said yourself that trust had to be built up.
Do that!
Take real action!
Say who gets what, who pays for what, from the European pots of money.
How many euros have the influential banking and media mogul Christian Konrad and his friends already received in support payments for things like hunting grounds?
How many euros do State Governor Erwin Pröll, his friends and his relative, the Minister of Agriculture, receive in direct subsidies?
Is it true that 427 influential farmers in Austria, almost all of whom are closely associated with your party, receive more than EUR 72 000 every year in direct subsidies?
I could go on.
What about Danone and France?
What about Müller dairy products and Germany?
What about the corporations governed by public law?
Open the doors!
Create real transparency about who gets what.
Open the Council meetings to scrutiny, so that we know how such decisions are reached.
While you are restoring trust, you should concern yourself with the government broadcasting corporation ORF.
What is the editor-in-chief, Werner Mück, doing there now?
And what about the other retainers who keep appearing there?
You have opportunities here; grasp them!
Transform yourself!
Put an end to the age of secrecy in Austrian domestic politics.
Become a European enlightener!
Many millions of European citizens will thank you for it.
