.
Mr President, Mr Poettering waited until the last minute!
We have been sitting here all this time, asking ourselves when election campaign support would finally arrive.
It came at the final hour, but that is how it should be, so we will allow it.
Chancellor Schüssel, I want to start by saying thank you to the Austrian presidency for its fine work.
You made reference to the fact that your team set a record in terms of attendance.
I have otherwise been very critical of the Council presidency’s attendance, but must certainly admit that the Austrian Council presidency was present in this House and available for dialogue.
I also want to say clearly on behalf of our group that Mr Winkler was frequently present in the European Parliament, and came away unscathed from the experience.
Thank you very much for this, Mr Winkler.
When we listen to you, Chancellor Schüssel, or to the President of the Commission, things start to become more agreeable, given that in every third sentence of your speeches, you talk about social cohesion, social responsibility in Europe, the importance of social policy and the decision that the Services Directive entailed, and which points the way ahead.
We can sense it: the neoliberal spirit of the time has passed, thank goodness.
The Commission and, above all, the Council presidencies, are increasingly coming to the realisation that economic and monetary union in Europe will not succeed unless supplemented by social union.
In this respect, the Austrian presidency has been a step in the right direction.
That we should hear this from the mouth of the President of the Commission is for us a cause for satisfaction, at least for the moment.
It does show, however, that there is much to be done for the future.
Our parliament has amended the Services Directive.
Mr Bartenstein, our thanks have already been expressed to you and I, too, wish to thank you for the invitation accorded to members of the European Parliament – I can no longer recall where it was, Graz or somewhere else, it is impossible to remember all those beautiful places with monasteries and other things where people go skiing.
It was good that you invited Members of this House, thereby demonstrating that you are bearing in mind the parliament’s prerogative in this legislative process.
One thing is clear, the Services Directive is the first instance in the history of the European Union of a directive having been written by Parliament.
The neoliberal composition which Mr Bolkestein presented to us was not a workable proposition.
It is gratifying that, given the heterogeneity of the right wing in this House, particularly that of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, the socially responsible elements in that group followed our lead, our rapporteur and the line we have taken.
What is even better is the fact that the Commission has not made any amendments, and the crowning glory is that the Austrian Council Presidency has also put its stamp on it.
Congratulations on this social progress in Europe, which has been achieved with the help of the European Parliament.
You were right to point out that a range of matters have been finalised in the Councils of Ministers.
Yes indeed, the Councils of Ministers act and make decisions.
The specific work undertaken in the Councils is working.
What is not working is the Council of European Heads of State or Government which, as a rule, does not decide on anything.
What has now been decided on is positive in one aspect.
I will certainly admit that the declaration of support from all of your counterparts regarding the substance of the constitution that you have presented as Council President has been positive.
I could scarcely believe it when I saw the press conference on TV when you said that they had all declared their support for the substance of this constitution.
The question can certainly be asked as to why your fellow Heads of Government so seldom do this in public, why they only do things behind closed doors and leave you to it.
Mr Vanhanen sets a good example, and has himself declared his support for this constitution.
I think it is tremendous that Mr Jacques Chirac too has declared behind closed doors his support for this constitution, and has now been joined in this by Mr Jan Peter Balkenende as well.
Had they done this more openly during the elections in France and the Netherlands, Europe would now be one step further along the road.
The key point is that they do it furtively.
It is good, though, that the substance has been preserved.
It is also clear to everyone in this House that it is on this substance that we have to build.
The only problem is that we are now losing another year, time we urgently need to implement the reform steps inherent in the constitution, the basic prerequisite for the EU’s economic and social success, as well as success in terms of its enlargement.
Again, these reforms have been postponed for another year.
This is the less satisfactory message emanating from this Council.
I wish to finish with a comment on the forthcoming EU-USA summit.
In addition to the success surrounding the positive declaration of support for enlargement to include Bulgaria and Romania, which our group expressly welcomes, given that it is a positive sign of the dependability of European policy, you made a clear statement on Guantanamo, and on that we congratulate you.
As I said last week, Guantanamo is a lawless zone which cannot be tolerated by a community based on the rule of law.
I hope that you will, tomorrow, say that with the same clarity to the President of the United States.
