Mr President, I agree with your question, and we ought to discuss in presidium how we can arrive at a sensible procedure while respecting all the constitutional rights of the institutions.
It cannot be right for the Council and Commission together to speak for 25 minutes in a debate for which half an hour is allocated.
When are they actually to debate with us?
If the two institutions want to debate among themselves, surely they can do that in the Council.
I want to come back to the heart of the matter, however.
Road safety is not the heart of the matter.
Thank you for what you have said, Vice-Chancellor, I agree with you.
The heart of the matter is the simple question: how can we pay for security measures in aviation?
This problem was raised with the Costa report.
It is high time we discussed it.
May I remind you that we as the European Parliament agreed in 2002 that the aviation security measures occasioned by terrorism should be paid for by the Member States.
Counter-terrorism is a public function and paying for it is therefore also a public function.
Then, because we were unable to agree, in the legislative process for the basic regulation in 2002 we settled for at least an interinstitutional agreement that the Commission should present a proposal for the public financing of such aviation security measures.
Mr Vice-President, you know how much I respect you, but I do not expect you to submit studies, I expect you to present a clear report with clear legislative proposals.
After four years you ought to be in a position – you might at least perhaps be kind enough to deal with that – to say when you will be coming forward with a definite proposal.
There were rumours it would be in April.
Now they are saying the end of the year.
After four years that is no longer tolerable.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I also want to have a clear statement from you: if we are agreed that the additional measures after 2001 were counter-terrorism measures, do you also believe that these measures should be financed by the State?
Yes or no?
We believe they should be.
