.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is less than we wanted, more than what many of us expected, and a victory for reason.
There are a number of things laid down in the inter-institutional agreement to which I attach particular importance.
First among them is the revision clause.
In 2008-2009, we will be reviewing all the figures all over again.
Those who are currently dissatisfied – dissatisfied, that is, with everything – should note that the consequence of this is that part of the process that has been set in motion by the change in the EU’s budget is a first step.
The Commission has undertaken to submit proposals for the necessary next steps in respect of the revision clause to be taken in 2008/2009.
What has been agreed is better financial management, and that is a vitally important step.
It is quite essential that the resources at our disposal be actually spent and used effectively.
Actually putting into effect the undertakings we have given each other and the agreements we have made with one another will be a great step forward.
There is another great step forward that we have taken, and it has to do with the requirement that the Member States should now produce their own reports with evidence of what they have done with the resources, and – as Mr Poettering has just said – this represents the abandonment of the attitude that ‘success is national, but failure is in Brussels’.
The Member States must now give an account of what use they and their authorities have actually made of the money.
It is quite vital that that should have been agreed to.
It has also proved possible to extract more money, and for that I want to take this opportunity to say: Thank you, Mr Böge, thank you, Mr Mulder, thank you, Mr Lewandowski, but I would also, and on behalf of my group, like to thank our colleague Mr Walter, who – as other members can testify – drove a hard bargain for our group in the closing stages.
He is from the Moselle valley and is used to flooding; whenever the waters are at their height, Ralf is at his best, so warm thanks to him.
I want to close by doing something you will not often hear me doing, and thank the Commission for their constructive cooperation in this stage of the negotiations.
I would also like to thank Chancellor Schüssel, the President of the Council, who – as we know – still has a pile of work to do, but, having been so constructive in negotiations, he can count on our support in bringing round those recalcitrants on the Council whom he has not yet won over.
All in all, I think yesterday was a good day.
