.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is, of course, no doubt that mistakes were made in the past, but now is the time to look forwards.
The conclusions we come to must not be premature and the strategy for the next stage must be properly thought through.
In the course of the debate, it was said – and rightly – that we do still, of course have a partner in the person of President Abbas, who is someone with whom we can still talk and with whom we must continue to negotiate.
We can continue counting on him as a partner, for the new government neither will nor can alter the constitution that is coming into force.
We must not abandon hope; on the contrary, we must look to the future.
One thing is clear, though – the Council spelled it out on Monday, and so did the Quartet – and that is that there are principles from which we must not deviate, and let there be no doubt that among them are non-violence, recognition of Israel’s right to exist and the continuation of the peace process.
It has also been said, time and time again, that European policy must be even-handed, and with that I can only agree; indeed, it is a self-evident truth.
I also made clear in my introductory statement what the position of the Council is as regards our relationship with Israel and our criticisms of it.
What matters is that Europe should speak with one voice.
If we want to have any influence, we also need to speak in the same language as our partners in the Quartet, and that is important too.
I am particularly grateful to the Commission for having developed, with careful consideration and without undue haste, a strategy for helping the Palestinian people.
As was said by several participants in the debate, the Palestinian people have suffered a great deal and continue to do so, and we cannot let them down.
I know, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, that the Commission’s policy with regard to them is a very good and very coherent one, and one in which we should give them our support.
