Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, let me begin by saying that the Chancellor did not really tell us very much about future enlargement, although that is, in fact, a priority of the Austrian presidency, firstly as regards Bulgaria and Romania and secondly with regard to preparation of the next steps in south-east Europe.
As far as Bulgaria and Romania are concerned, I should like to remind you of the Council’s promise to discuss in depth with this Parliament whether accession can take place in 2007, as I hope it does, or whether it will have to be deferred until 2008.
We expect the presidency to honour its commitment to consult us on this matter.
As for south-east Europe, I regard that region as a very high priority.
Tell your colleagues in the Council that it is not a matter of incorporating these countries overnight for want of any other option but rather of maintaining the vision and the possibility of accession so that young people see the logic of remaining in the region instead of depopulating it by emigrating.
There are many tests to be applied.
One such test concerns the way in which the countries in the region treat their minorities.
For us in Parliament, the treatment of minorities is always an important factor.
In this respect, Chancellor, I am already deeply disappointed.
How do you intend to stand up as President of the Council for the protection of minority rights when, in your own country, you cannot persuade your coalition partner, Jörg Haider, to show a minimum of respect for the Slovenian minority in Austria by having bilingual place-name signs erected?
I also hope you will make every effort, during this particular presidency, to ensure that Austria behaves in an exemplary manner, with no backsliding, not least with a view to gaining international trust.
In connection with enlargement, we sometimes have the impression that heads of government – and you are certainly not alone in this – are very quick to take decisions.
When it comes to conveying to their own population, however, why steps towards enlargement are needed and what there is to be gained from enlargement, they have very little to say.
The Council must consider, together with Parliament and the Commission – for we can only do this together – how we should jointly present this great historic enlargement project to the public, because, as you rightly said, there really is a lack of trust.
We must reflect together on what we can do to overcome that lack of trust.
On the subject of economic problems and unemployment, I must give you my full support.
One of the criteria by which we shall measure your performance is the way in which your welcome pledge to combat unemployment is honoured during this presidency and the extent to which you are prepared to lead the way with specific measures.
In this context it is especially regrettable that, although more funds are available to us for research and development, some of these funds, as you very well know, have been siphoned off from infrastructure development.
The European rail network that is so important to all of us, and particularly to our country, will suffer from the swingeing cutbacks we have made in that domain.
We find this unacceptable, and we should try to make another adjustment here.
Mr President-in-Office, we Social Democrats shall judge your presidency objectively.
We shall measure your performance by what you have promised today.
We hope that the Austrian presidency will be a resounding success.
Such is the importance of Europe to us that we could not wish you any less.
