. – Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the road here has been a long and difficult one, and without this Parliament we would not be where we are now.
I recommend that all of us consider not only the national interest – or what we believe to be the national interest, but should consider the interests of the community, the interests of the European Union, of the Europe in which we share.
Had that not been borne in mind, we would not have ended up with this result, to which our response is ‘yes, but’.
As Mr Böge rightly said, we are of course not 100% satisfied, but we do know that no more could have been achieved.
I would like to thank the Members of this House – Mr Lewandowski, who chaired the working party, Mr Böge, Mr Walter and Mr Mulder – for their efforts at persuasion.
We can take pride in having had such a negotiating group to achieve this result.
We have a high responsibility for the European Union, and that responsibility is not in the least to do with money; on the contrary, it is all about democracy, parliamentarianism, transparency and openness.
It is about winning over the public to the cause of Europe, so that this Europe of ours may be convincing.
That is why, when European funds are spent at the national level, we want the national authorities to share responsibility for this money being spent properly.
Where there are deficits, they must not always be attributed to the European Union, for the national authorities must accept their share of responsibility for them.
We insist on the European Parliament being given a say in, and responsibility for, reviewing the European Union’s outgoings in 2008/2009.
Let me say, with all the emphasis I can muster, that there must be no repetition of the haggling that we have seen going on over recent weeks and months.
This must be the last time that our negotiations should be so lacking in conviction.
I agree strongly with the President of the European Council when he says that we have to give thought to how we endow the European Union with its own revenues that, rather than constituting a burden on the public, will result in Europe having sufficient resources, so let us work together to that end.
