– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, Finland is the first Council Presidency since the enlargement of the European Union on 1 May 2004 to hail from the shores of the Baltic Sea, which the enlargement by eight countries has of course made a .
The Finnish Presidency is therefore in a position to develop strategic dimensions that are also connected with the Northern Dimension, as there is also a non-Member State bordering on the Baltic Sea, namely Russia.
Finland’s experience makes it particularly well placed to develop relations in this region that could be extremely constructive, and that also include issues such as security of energy supply.
We are pinning our hopes on Finland in this matter.
My second point is that the Finnish Presidency, in cooperation with the Commission, must make at least the first attempts to achieve a new balance between enlargement and the European Union’s capacity to cope with this.
We must hold out the prospect of EU membership to many countries, but this cannot always mean full membership.
We must find other ways – and, in the Barroso paper, both the European Council and the Commission declared their intention to take essential initiatives in this matter.
We shall wait until December and see how far we get with this discussion.
My third point is that history has shown that the EU is only strong where we have Community Europe, as only there is it capable of action, and only there does it show continuity.
That is why an enlarged EU renders it particularly necessary to take the approach of a constitutional treaty.
I am obliged to the President-in-Office of the Council for committing himself to the ratification of this Constitutional Treaty.
This matches the position of the subsequent German Presidency, which means that there should be constructive cooperation on drawing up the declaration to be made by Germany at the end of its Presidency.
I think I can even say that this should be the position of all the Community institutions, in order to enable the Constitutional Treaty – with regard to which we need to be much more imaginative – to enter into force in 2009.
Cherry-picking will be of no help to us here, as it would destroy the approach we have to take of explaining to the public in persuasive terms why we need a constitutional treaty – which gives it more rights and brings greater transparency.
We need not only a Europe that works, but also a Europe of democracy and transparency.
That is why this Constitutional Treaty is so important.
