.
Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the European Parliament most sincerely for the strong support enjoyed by the Commission throughout this programme.
Parliament’s extremely active participation and its amendments have made an essential contribution to the constructive development of the Commission’s proposal.
The most recent economic growth and employment forecasts in Europe are altogether encouraging.
Nevertheless, we should not lose sight of fundamental problems and weaknesses.
In the newly formulated strategy for growth and employment of February 2005, the Commission clearly identifies the challenge.
The Commission’s proposal, made in April of last year, for a Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme should signal our willingness to follow up the analysis with the necessary effective steps to more growth and employment.
We want to use this programme to establish a link between the means and the political ends.
Innovation plays a key role here.
By innovation, I should point out, we mean more than simply the commercialisation of research findings.
Naturally we must ensure that research also produces marketable results, but innovation goes beyond that.
Our goal must be to make better economic use of knowledge and the potential of the knowledge-based society as a whole.
This means innovation in areas such as design, marketing and logistics as well as in business structures.
The broad-based support for the CIP demonstrates our common awareness of what must be done to strengthen Europe’s competitiveness.
The fact that today we are about to adopt the programme at first reading serves to highlight this all the more clearly.
Furthermore, this is the first major Community programme to be adopted for the period of the new Financial Perspective.
A clear signal of European Parliament support and a beacon for the Agenda and for growth and employment.
The speed with which an agreement has been reached is due, above all, to the work of the rapporteur, Mr Chatzimarkakis, his shadow rapporteur, Mrs Thomson, Mr Vakalis and Mr Turmes, who have accomplished much through truly positive and flexible cooperation with the presidency.
The Commission has followed this process closely, and I should like to express my full support, on behalf of the Commission, of the supplemented proposal.
We have come to the end of a road we have travelled together, and I believe it has been a successful journey.
