Mr President, the situation in the Middle East has a direct effect on Europe, and it is unfortunate that it took a war to remind us of this fact, which has become the central focus of diplomatic efforts.
We all know that what the Middle East needs is a comprehensive political solution: two states, Israel and Palestine; peace in the region where the three countries Israel, Syria and Lebanon meet; assistance from non-radical Arab states; the pushing back of Iran and of its lackey Hizbollah.
We know what has to happen.
It is time to put the pieces of the puzzle together, because people are suffering from the violence.
I am very pleased that you, Mr Schulz, brought up the FDP’s idea for a CSCME (Conference on Security and Cooperation in the Middle East), as Kurt Beck has also already done.
You have our support in this, and it would be good if this were actually to come about.
Hans-Dietrich Genscher will be delighted by this.
Numerous Member States are involved in UNIFIL, the military operation in Lebanon, and units from them form the backbone of this force, but are, unfortunately, national units and not truly European ones.
This is not good, since we Liberals share in this dream of an ESDP, which Mr Cohn-Bendit so eloquently shared with us.
However, I want to say one thing, my dear Mr Cohn-Bendit: for a party which for a long time wanted to disband Germany’s armed forces and leave NATO, I find it quite remarkable that you now attack poor Graham Watson just because the FDP has, after long discussion, adopted a well-founded position on this matter and for once is not in favour of it.
Someone in your position would be well advised to be a little more considerate.
If we had followed your security policy in those days, then Mr Onyskiewicz would not be President of this House today.
Just as it is clear that we can be grateful to the soldiers who will do their duty in this difficult region, it is also clear that we as politicians must finally create a Common Foreign and Security Policy, one which proves to be worthy of the name when things get really serious.
The difficulties in the Council have already been mentioned.
We need to rework existing structures, we need a genuine common decision-making process, in short: we need a big step forward, towards the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
This is what we must work towards; Europe has this responsibility and Europe must discharge it.
I would like to add that I believe we should be conducting this debate in Brussels rather than in Strasbourg.
