– Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we have only borrowed the earth from our descendants.
We all know that any form of politics that lacks responsibility towards this principle imposes a hurdle on the next generation that cannot be overcome.
Jacques Delors declared as early as 1993 that in order to meet future challenges the European Union has the urgent task of restructuring the economy in a way that is ecologically and socially fair, and of orienting it towards a sustainable strategy; Mr Pröll has confirmed this once again.
Jacques Delors stated that, essentially, models of development must be achieved that are based on low consumption of non-renewable resources and that are reproducible in the long term.
In 2001, the Swedish Presidency responded to these findings with the Gothenburg Strategy.
Now, five years later, we see that the new Commission has chosen to ignore all of these findings that are so important to our survival.
Instead, it has returned to completely outdated notions.
This is evident from resolutions in which unimpeded growth is invoked as being the key to solving all the problems of today, while the third dimension - the preservation of ecological foundations - is no longer mentioned and the necessary balance between three dimensions is negated.
The earmarking catalogue in the regulation on the Structural Funds includes, for example, a total variable of 71 for the environmental dimension.
The Commission’s new slogan, that the Lisbon Strategy must be pursued in the direction of unimpeded growth, is simply wrong, because it is short-sighted, it lacks solidarity and it is irresponsible, because acting in this way shifts incalculable costs onto the next generation.
We are glad that the Council does not take this line, and we welcome the Austrian Presidency’s new strategic approach.
We hope that this will be adopted in the next few days and that it will genuinely be implemented in terms of concrete political action.
