Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have considerable risks to contend with for the 2007 financial year: in terms of both the figures and the procedures for implementing the multi-annual programmes based on the Financial Regulation.
The new programmes have a potential that can only be properly harnessed by improving procedures.
It is important to everyone concerned, particularly programme users, that the legislative process relating to the Financial Regulation, its implementing regulation and the multi-annual programmes now be concluded as quickly as possible, to enable prompt handling by the Commissioner’s staff.
We are eagerly awaiting the transmission of the revised Commission proposal on the reform of the Financial Regulation.
When our draft was adopted, the Commission promised to incorporate a large number of our amendments.
At that time, in a roll-call vote resulting in a majority hardly ever achieved in this House, Parliament placed particular emphasis on important points.
Faster, leaner, more efficient – those were the points we made with regard to the procedures, to enable profitable, value-added investment of European funds.
It is also particularly important to us that Parliament’s rights be guaranteed.
We shall examine the revised Commission draft, which is on our agenda for tomorrow, accordingly; but in order to carry out a thorough analysis we need to see the full picture – not just the outline, but also the shading.
Parliament needs to know what points the Commission and the Council want to see incorporated into the implementing regulations if we are to see the extent to which our opinion has been implemented – in both documents, that is.
I should like to assure the Commissioner that the best efforts from all our quarters will go into ensuring that the proposal is adopted promptly in this House.
I would ask the Commission to now present the complete works, comprising Financial Regulation and implementing regulation, as quickly as possible, to enable us to start the new programmes with the new procedures in time for the new programming period.
I would also appeal to the Council to maintain its constructive cooperation, so that Europe, and its citizens, Member States and institutions, are able to achieve better and, above all, cheaper administration.
