Mr President, we know that the citizens of Europe have less mobility than citizens elsewhere.
Many of the available statistics show that mobility is twice as high in the USA as in Europe.
Of course, we cannot remove Europe's linguistic barriers overnight – and perhaps we do not want to do so – nor can we institute the federal principles applied in the USA just like that.
Nevertheless, in general it gives our young people an opportunity to increase their mobility and opens up to them a European market in interesting jobs and career opportunities.
With these qualifications, as we certainly do not want to adopt the American situation here overnight, more mobility for employees and young people is a goal of ours.
Improving workers' mobility involves taking measures, step by step.
With regard to this specific directive, I can tell you that the Commission has declared 2006 to be the European Year of Workers' Mobility, that there will be a job portal, EURES, an improved version of which is going to be presented at a meeting in the next few days, namely on 20/21 February in Brussels, where the starting pistol will officially be fired.
I myself will have the honour of taking part, and Commission President Mr Barroso, Commissioner Špidla and the President of the European Parliament have also agreed to be there.
This meeting will include discussion of the topic of 'mobility, a tool for more and better jobs', and this discussion will continue in workshops.
We do not just want the directive on the portability of supplementary pension rights – what we want is a general mainstream.
It is also important that a best practice process should be initiated between the authorities, trade unions and the private sector, and we also want to broaden the knowledge base.
This therefore forms an important part of the Lisbon Strategy.
The European Year of Workers' Mobility is just starting; the final conference will take place in November under the Finnish Presidency.
However, I think it is a good thing that there are already plans to follow up on this first European Year of Mobility.
