. – Mr President, Commissioner, that the maintenance and protection of Europe’s cultural heritage is of major importance and also constitutes a major task is not a matter for doubt, and it is not irrelevant that there are various agreements, such as for example those of UNESCO and the Council of Europe, that record these efforts and highlight the positive developments achieved.
Even so, when discussing the protection of our cultural heritage, which focuses primarily on preserving the cultural achievements of the past, what should be borne in mind is that culture is a dynamic and diverse process, so, while cultural policy has to be concerned with the maintenance and conservation of our cultural heritage, it must also take responsibility for the creation of cultural networks for contemporary culture and artistic trends that serve as a basis for the cultural heritage of the future.
It is very important that people’s awareness of the cultural treasures of their own country and of Europe be fostered, and a European Cultural Heritage Year will certainly be able to highlight a number of them and make them more aware of their importance.
More use can and should be made of the resources that the European Union makes available – in the shape of the Structural Fund, URBAN, LEADER, INTERREG and so on – in the service of cultural heritage, but responsibility for this lies with the Member States, and it is they that need to be made aware of the fact that investments in cultural heritage have beneficial effects on the quality of life in the regions and, of course, on tourism.
It is, then, with the interests of these in mind that we need to get to work.
What I do not agree with is the way we are drawing very heavily on the budgets for Culture 2000, or its successor, Culture 2007, for the sum of EUR 400 million, spread over 27 countries and a period of seven years, does not provide sufficient scope for contemporary art alongside structural investment.
What we should be using these resources for, though, is the raising of awareness through seminars and the award of research contracts, through clarifying the degree to which experience and information are being exchanged, and how matters stand in the other countries, as well as planning projects on the protection of the regions.
That is what this programme can – and should – do.
We are urged to think of our cultural heritage as an indivisible whole, and that we can do, but it must, in future, go hand in hand with that which is contemporary.
