.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am much obliged to you for this debate and for what has been said in it.
I find myself unable to disagree with any of the interventions that have been made; the opinions you have expressed show that the Council and the Commission are on the right track, and we appreciate your support.
I can do no other than agree with what Baroness Ludford had to say.
When we today criticise the structures set up by Dayton, we should not forget that Dayton was the starting point for peace, and for that we must be grateful, that we must acknowledge – even if, of course, we must now admit that those structures are not ideal.
Almost everyone who has spoken has referred to one of Bosnia-Herzegovina’s current problems being its bureaucratic superstructures, but, while there is no doubt about that being so, let us not forget what motivated their creation.
They were put in place in response to the mistrust that had prevailed between ethnic groups, which did not trust each other and wanted – and had – to keep tabs on what the other was up to.
Further to what the honourable gentleman from Spain said about his own country’s civil war, the same was true in this case: we must not forget that these ethnic groups had done terrible things to each other.
To the degree to which we are able to reduce this mistrust and promote the mutual understanding to which Mr Peterle referred, we will succeed in changing structures, for I do not believe that it would be right to attempt to do that from the top downwards while such mutual trust is absent.
We in the European Union must ensure that this mistrust is diminished and we must do what we can to help that happen.
We must do something practical to help European values prevail in this country, and I do of course endorse what has been said about its young people.
We must do something to support them, such as making it easier for them to travel abroad, and part of the package that the European Union will put together for them will of course consist in making it easier to obtain visas.
Many thanks, again, for your interventions.
Together with the Commission, the Council will continue to work for the realisation of all the things that have, today, been set out as goals.
