– Mr President, I shall try to stick to the facts.
One fact is that there has certainly been some progress on the energy policy front, at any rate as far as the last Council is concerned, but what we have to concern ourselves with now, Mr President-in-Office, is its implementation.
What I would like to see is a lot more thought given to implementation and infrastructure.
Reference has already been made to Poul Rasmussen and his initiative.
On Monday, we adopted the directives on the Trans-European energy networks; we now have to get our hands on the money for them.
Since there is too little for that purpose in the European Budget, we must find national budgets that will contribute their share.
You said that we are all in the same boat, and that everyone has to row; I do not see everyone bent over the oars just yet, but I hope that will happen.
As regards the foreign policy elements – and this is something I would like to address to the Commission – we have been making this demand ever since the Commission was appointed, ever since it took office.
It is late in coming, but it is on the way, and I hope that we will get some statements in this half of the year.
The President of the Council is right to say that our atomic energy policy is a matter for the nation states.
While I do of course endorse the Austrian approach, the issues of safety and of proliferation, along with the comeback that atomic energy is making, will have major roles to play, and that is where I would like to see more being done.
Science and research: the list included with the Council conclusions is actually a sad one.
Two countries – Sweden and Finland – are way out in front, and it is thanks to them that we hit the 3% mark.
Nor, alas, is even Austria far enough advanced to reach 3%.
In this respect, too, we all need to pull on the oars, particularly those of us with higher incomes and greater economic clout, who must row more strongly, so that we achieve the 3% we have aimed for.
My last remark has to do with the services directive.
I am grateful for your support.
This will be an essential element in the social Europe, provided that we can get it through this House and that you can get it through the Council.
That is quite crucial.
Although you referred to the employers, you did not mention the employers in the cooperative sector – which is itself of vital importance – or, in particular, the employees’ representative organisations, which have done much to bring about the social Europe.
