– Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to echo the previous speakers' thanks to the rapporteurs, who have worked very hard and very conscientiously.
Unfortunately, even the Commission cannot pride itself on a completely flawless financial record during the period in question.
There are questions regarding the Commission's bookkeeping: they have unofficial commercial accounts that we know nothing about, that are not entered in the Commission's balance sheet and that give the impression of an incomplete discharge report.
Tomorrow, Mr Mulder will, at my request, submit two oral amendments in which Parliament calls for a report on these accounts and for them to be audited and included in the balance sheet and the budget.
I would ask you to support these amendments.
We ask the Commission to inform us as soon as possible of what is going on with these accounts, and we are grateful to them for trying to settle this themselves.
Commendably, they carried out a written survey among their financial staff in October 2005, with the aim of identifying accounts and their authorised signatories, and specifically those accounts that are directly or indirectly connected with the Commission's activities and that were previously unknown.
In Germany we would call them 'black accounts'.
These accounts are very varied – some of them were already known about, but not by everybody, but some of them were previously completely unknown.
The accounts that were already known include rental income from the former Commission supermarket 'Economat' in the Commission's premises on Rue de la Science, which has now been privatised.
That brings in several million euros.
The fact that access to these accounts is unclear is a cause for concern, and I therefore call for a rapid explanation – more rapid than the Commission has managed in the past.
Many questions remain unanswered, such as why these accounts were, in the past, run without the knowledge or control of the Commission by people who were obviously not authorised to do so.
It would also be nice to know how many of these accounts there actually are.
We know – allegedly – how many of them were known about, but we do not know how many were completely unknown.
It would be interesting to find out why these accounts were not identified in the budget.
I do not need to emphasise how astounding I find it that these quite considerable sums were removed from the hands of the budgetary authority with democratic legitimacy in this regard.
