.
Mr President, Mr Winkler, Mr Barroso, as time has gone on my group has realised that the Lisbon strategy is no longer the strategy that was set out at the start of this very interesting process.
This was very clear in Mr Winkler's speech.
It is now a very one-sided strategy for growth and jobs.
The idea that the aim of sustainability and social equity, as set out in Gothenburg, should also form part of this strategy has been completely disregarded.
Following the discussions I witnessed in the coordination structure for Lisbon and in the light of what we have drawn up as a motion for a resolution, on which we will vote today, I am afraid there is a risk that Parliament is no longer prepared to pursue this ambitious strategy to actually link sustainability and growth together.
Why do I say that?
There is absolutely no willingness to discuss important instruments that would guarantee success.
In this coordination structure, we tried to discuss fiscal policy.
If we are not prepared to consider uniform company taxation within the EU, how are we going to solve negative location competition?
If we are not prepared to talk about ecological taxes, how will the state be able to promote sustainability in a controlled manner?
Some of the Members of this Parliament are unwilling to use the word 'tax' at all: they are afraid of frightening the citizens.
They make promises to the people, but do not ensure that instruments are set up to put us in a position to actually keep these ambitious promises.
Let us take an important topical example: energy policy.
To Commissioner Verheugen, to Mr Barroso, I say this: if you are not prepared to incorporate transport policy into your energy policy strategies, if you are not prepared to put the conservation of resources and efficiency right at the heart of your strategies, and if you continue to focus on prolonging the lifespan of nuclear power stations, then you are doomed to failure.
You will not reduce dependency on raw materials, and you will not be in a position to secure fair prices on the energy market.
Just look at the countries where a high proportion of energy comes from nuclear power.
Is electricity in France and Germany cheap?
No, it is expensive.
With regard to the market, Mr Barroso, I have one request: trust Mrs Kroes's proposals from last week.
The market cannot currently be applied to energy.
We need the production and distribution of energy, generation and the network, to be separated.
As Mrs Kroes quite rightly said, we will only have a chance against the energy giants politically if we actually push the market through against them.
