.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my honourable colleague, Mrs Hennicot-Schoepges, for her outstanding work.
Without wishing to cause offence to the Commissioner, I would like to say that she has very much enlivened what was originally a rather administrative proposal.
But the Commission’s proposals always do leave room for improvement.
The European Parliament is a democratic forum in which political debate relates to the lives, everyday existence and concerns of the people.
The geographical area of the European Union has not only seen the construction of cathedrals but was also the scene of the French Revolution and the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen as well as the birthplace of the rule of law and of the welfare state.
The EU has a common cultural heritage and respects cultural diversity.
That is why I wish to stress most emphatically that interreligious dialogue must be a major part of intercultural dialogue.
If we want to promote intercultural dialogue, as we should, but fail to mention interreligious dialogue, then we are betraying it.
We should see it not as a hindrance, but as a challenge, or even an opportunity to better our mutual understanding and to live together in harmony.
Given the current grappling with Islam, now is not the time for us to be ignorant of our roots, to deny and to disown them.
We have our backs to the wall in this respect.
We should speak confidently; only then can we enter into dialogue.
Education must also play an essential part in the action, on the European level as well as nationally and regionally.
Civic education and initiatives designed to promote understanding of others in their diversity are a contribution to constructive and effective dialogue.
Educational institutions in particular must play a role in this European Year.
The European Year of Intercultural Dialogue also presents the opportunity to distribute teaching and learning materials on the various cultures.
Intercultural dialogue is extremely important politically; it is, however, only meaningful once it includes interreligious dialogue and education.
Only then can it bear fruit, and only there lies the soul of such dialogue.
