Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I wonder how familiar the people of Thuringia are with the European regulation on driving times and rest periods.
It is, no doubt, the most important law on the basis of which Europe’s hauliers and bus companies have to operate, and it has developed over the course of twenty years.
The only thing is that it is out of date and bureaucratic; the monitoring devices are easily manipulated, and the checks are not free of discrimination.
It is because Lisbon requires improved framework conditions in terms of road safety, protection at work, opportunities for competition and reduced bureaucracy that I warmly welcome the compromise that has now, at last, been put together.
It may well be that not everyone will rejoice in it, but the fact is that there is nothing whatever about it that makes matters worse than they are under the present legal regime.
We have even managed to agree on how often checks should be carried out and on a range of sanctions to be imposed.
If, today, we vote to adopt that, we will be confirming that Europe really has entered the digital age.
Not least the introduction of the digital tachograph makes for clarity; with effect from May 2006, it will be required to be fitted to new HGVs and buses, and vehicles without one may be taken out of service.
What the Member States have to do is to guarantee the smooth transition from the analogue system to the digital one.
Will they achieve this ambitious target?
If not, there will be great upheavals, for example when a vehicle equipped, as the regulation requires, with a digital tachograph is checked in an EU Member State where the officials have not yet been issued with the proper reading device.
There will also be problems where agreements with neighbouring Member States have not yet been concluded.
What are we going to do about the Ukrainian lorry driver who is checked in Brussels, but has never heard of a digital tachograph?
And how can we expect Europeans to be checked in Turkey?
I urge you to join with me in calling for the AETR regulations to be adapted to the digital age.
