. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the internal market is being tested; in the field of energy, in particular, it could even be said to be at risk.
The promotion of national champions results in national monopolies, which means that there is no competition, and this also means that there is no more competition in the European internal market.
This scenario is bad for consumers.
European energy enterprises face the additional problem that, if they are not competing in Europe, they will also no longer be internationally competitive in future.
That, too, aggravates the situation in Europe.
Incidentally, it also aggravates the situation for all other enterprises, as they have to pay the high energy prices and thus also lose out in terms of international competitiveness.
Although I explicitly support the efforts of the Commission and, in particular, the Commissioner on this issue, I believe that the Commission’s options are simply limited.
The Commission is trying to present instruments of competition law, but the famous two-thirds rule in mergers law almost always applies in the field of energy, in particular – and, as a result, the Commission’s scope for intervention is minimal.
I am aware that Commissioner Kroes is considering changing this, but to do so would require unanimity within the Council, and I do not believe that such unanimity will be possible in the present situation.
That is why it is vital that the Council, too, concern itself with this problem.
Governments can be expected to abide by the spirit as well as the letter of the Treaties and of European law.
Ultimately, the fact is that we want to see an internal market in the field of energy enterprises, in particular.
That is why I expect the Council to become involved with this issue.
I should like to make one comment on takeovers law: newspaper reports in the past few days have alleged that European takeovers law is promoting this development.
I consider that inappropriate.
Member States can be expected to transpose takeovers law, but this is a case of relations between enterprises; it has nothing to do with the exertion of political influence.
The exertion of political influence is not covered by decisions under takeovers law at European level, and should be avoided and prevented.
It is vital that this issue be put openly on the table in the Council and that an appeal be made to all those responsible within the Council.
