Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, things have for some time been looking good for the services directive.
The Council is present today, represented by the Minister for the Economy and Labour of a country in which social partnership works and in which the social market economy is a living reality.
Unity between the social partners, the social market economy and the compatibility of economic growth and competitiveness with social security are also the principles on the basis of which the Members of the European Parliament have, over recent weeks, come to agree among themselves and to rewrite the Bolkestein directive.
Over the past weeks and months, though, much of what has been said and written about the services directive has been false, with deliberate attempts being made to stir up anxieties and prejudices.
To this day, there are those who would rather demonstrate than inform, who prefer to take to the streets rather than negotiate and seek division rather than sound political solutions.
We, here in this House, have taken another road, yet even here there are those who misinform without having first read.
To Mrs Wagenknecht, I have to say that this directive is not about liberalisation or privatisation, and our friends in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance need to be reminded that the first sentence of Article 16 reads: ‘Member States shall ensure free access to, and the free exercise of, services’.
What this directive does do is to remove bureaucracy and legal uncertainty; it creates economic growth and jobs whilst maintaining social security.
It takes as its starting point the freedom to provide services and goes on to regulate what is to be done with that freedom.
What we have done by rewriting the Commission proposal and the resolution on the internal market, and through negotiations between the groups, is to produce a business card for the European model of the social market economy.
We are not playing off one against the other.
We have also listened to the people and have, in the work we have done in this House, taken their fears and concerns on board.
Europe needs this services directive.
It will ensure more growth and more new jobs in Europe, and will be good for workers, entrepreneurs and for Europe.
There is not one single reason to reject this directive in the form in which we will be putting it to the vote, and nor, today, is there even a single reason to demonstrate against this directive in the shape in which we will be adopting it.
The demonstrators have recognised that, too, for of the 35 000 who came to Strasbourg, fewer than 1 000 turned up outside the Parliament building.
They, too, know that we are working for them.
