– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my most sincere thanks for the opinions expressed here.
They largely confirm that the position of the EU was the right one.
The expectations of the new Council are high, and a consistent position on its use is required to enable it to meet those expectations and to function properly.
Of course, we cannot abolish the laws of political reality from one day to the next, but I do believe that we have a chance.
The EU must play a key role in this.
I am obliged to the House for the support that you have expressed here.
It has been pointed out repeatedly that the election of members of the Human Rights Council is of the utmost importance.
We all regret that the original proposal for a two-thirds majority could not be pushed through.
Nevertheless, I should like to reiterate that the EU’s commitment, which I mentioned earlier, to vote only for countries who have a clean human rights record, is extremely important.
We are not talking here about just 25 or 27 votes, but rather, if we include associated countries – indeed, the community of democratic nations as a whole – we are talking about a large number, which is capable of blocking membership of countries who are in fact flagrant human rights violators.
Mr Coveney said that the figure of 47 members of the new Human Rights Council is too high, that the instrument is too large.
That is open to debate.
It should be borne in mind that, at all events, the membership of the Human Rights Council is a little smaller than that of the Commission on Human Rights.
Compared with 191 Member States of the United Nations, I personally consider the figure of 47 perfectly appropriate.
Incidentally, that has in fact meant rather fewer seats for the Western group, owing to the fact that members are to now be elected not at Ecosoc but directly in the General Assembly.
That, too, is regrettable, but we have to take the rough with the smooth.
If we want a powerful, relatively small instrument, we have to accept that we shall have somewhat fewer votes.
I actually agree with everything Mr Schmidt said.
The demand by the United States that the five permanent members of the Security Council be given automatic membership of the Human Rights Council was a relatively early proposal that was no longer supported in the latter phase.
It would certainly not have had the support of the EU, and as such was never really going to be able to command a majority.
Mrs Flautre pointed out that the important dossiers that are still being dealt with by the Commission on Human Rights must be completed.
The EU will of course ensure that the outstanding issues are brought to a close, namely in such a way as to benefit human rights, and such that these dossiers can be taken over immediately by the Human Rights Council.
