.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the Lisbon process was launched, it was the first real attempt, and in my opinion a very well thought-out one, at giving a European response to the challenges of globalisation.
The starting point used in Lisbon was that we would only be able to survive intercontinental competition and continue to compete with competitors on other continents over the long term if we become the strongest knowledge-based society and national economy in the world – but at European level.
It was the right step to take, but what has happened since then?
Those who decided to take this step cannot decide whether they want to take it at European or national level.
They are pulled back and forth between the message that 'we can only survive in this competition as a united Europe', which is right, and the message in their own country that 'actually, in principle we are strong enough as a government to do it ourselves', which of course is more popular with the voters.
The result is that there has not been enough investment in the Lisbon process at either European or national level.
That is the situation after six years!
Mr President of the Commission, I am grateful for what you said, but I also regret that you are keeping quiet on something else.
There is a gaping chasm between what you have once again described as being necessary as a commitment, including financially, and what happens in practice.
You and your Commission have described what is needed in terms of funding for the EU over the next seven years, and the Council has adopted a financial basis.
The problem is, there is a gap of 40.82% between what you asked for and what the Council decided!
The Council agreed to 40.82% less than you had requested for the financial perspective.
Those, Mr President, are the different messages, the different-shaped bricks.
You cannot build a beautiful house with different-shaped bricks.
You cannot even build a shack.
You cannot even build a ski hut in Arlberg am Lech – or rather Lech am Arlberg – to sing sea shanties in of an evening.
Welcome to the valley, Mr President!
The downhill race is now over.
The troika on the financial perspective, which we will experience in the next few days, and the subsequent summit once again draw attention to this discrepancy.
The troika is ruled by penny-pinchers, scraping together every last Euro so that the money cannot be given to Europe.
Three days later, the Heads of State or Government will meet, and once again proclaim how important the Lisbon summit and the Lisbon objectives are.
That is precisely what is holding Europe up: there is no coherent, consistent approach to the Lisbon process!
In the European Parliament, we have tried to combine the flexibility Europe needs with the social cohesion it cannot do without, because these two aspects belong together.
If we want to take the people with us – yes, Mr Winkler, you are quite right there – if we want the people to come with us, we must depict globalisation as an opportunity, but also reduce the risk that it could be used to break down social standards.
With the Services Directive, we tried to say yes to flexibility where necessary and possible, but only if we retain social cohesion.
I therefore assume that the European Parliament's decision will form the basis for the Commission and Council to continue consultations on the Services Directive.
I can only warn against deviating from it.
You made the promise, Mr Winkler, and you said today that you would keep that promise.
We will ensure that you do, you can be sure of that!
It is indeed the case that enough ink has been used up on the subject of the future of the Lisbon process.
What we need is investment in research and qualifications, so that our best people do not drift away to other continents.
What we need is investment in lifelong learning, because, if good qualifications are a prerequisite for access to the labour market, then lifelong learning is a basic right that guarantees that everybody has that access.
Yesterday, the President of the Federal Republic of Germany clarified the desires of young people in Europe using the example of the Erasmus scheme.
However, Erasmus is one of the points where the Council has reduced the financial perspective the most.
So, I will say it again: in the Lisbon process, nothing fits together.
