Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by expressing my special thanks to Mr Szenja, the rapporteur in the lead committee, for our close and fruitful cooperation.
This is an extremely significant report, because it makes clear from the parliamentary perspective the priorities we still wish to pursue in implementing the rump of the old action plan on company law in this legislative term and shows how far we intend to push the Commission to present concrete proposals in the course of the present term.
In the policy debate, I was not surprised to see that there was broad agreement, not only between the large political groups but among the smaller groups too, on the substance of the reports, which were adopted by large majorities in both the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and, subsequently, in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
In the view of my group, this is also a compelling reason for us to reject all the amendments that have been tabled in the intervening period for the reading in plenary.
The report is good as it stands and should not be watered down by amendments that may also scupper previous compromises.
This is why we in the PPE-DE Group cannot support the amendments that are now on the table.
Allow me to add a comment on the subject of ‘one share, one vote’.
There were differences on this point, not only in the debate within the Committee on Economic Affairs but also in the Committee on Legal Affairs.
At the time when we negotiated the Takeover Directive, we became aware of these differences.
Even then, we managed to find a reasonable consensus.
The consensus view is quite simply that we should wait first of all for any studies that have been commissioned and then wait for the evaluation of the Takeover Directive in 2012/2013.
At the end of the next legislative term, a decision can be taken as to whether further proposals need to be made.
This is a good example of a sound compromise.
In conclusion let me reiterate my thanks to everyone involved.
This is a good report that merits a large parliamentary majority.
