.
I will take particular pleasure in being present at this meeting of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly in Vienna, but it is unfortunate that my appearance there is scheduled for a day when other events are taking place, including the visit of the President of the United States to Vienna, so it may be rather difficult for me to reach the venue at all.
I will, however, do my best, and am already looking forward to meeting Members of your House and parliamentarians from the ACP states.
Turning now to the issue of financial resources, I would first like to point out that the European Development Fund is not part of the European Union’s Budget; on the contrary, these resources are provided by the Member States from their national budgets.
I would also like to point out that the amount in this tenth EDF is equivalent to an increase of over 35% against its predecessor; even though there were renewed negotiations and discussions in Port Moresby concerning the sums involved, that is still a quite considerable increase.
What we are talking about here – and this is something that must be brought home to the public – is the sum of EUR 22.6 billion over six years.
I do believe that, in doing this, the European Union is fully discharging its obligations, not least its moral obligations.
Moving on to the agreement to increase aid to Africa by EUR 10 billion, the intention is that this should start in 2006 and run until 2010.
At present, it is probably premature to pass overall judgment on the European Union’s keeping of this promise.
I do believe that the tenth EDF is a good package and contains sufficient funds for the needs of the developing countries in Africa, in the Caribbean and in the Pacific.
A very great deal will also depend – and this too needs to be emphasised – on how these funds are deployed, which must be done in an efficient manner.
It is a recurrent experience that the end of a period sees considerable amounts of money left over, and that means that we also have to improve the capacity for these funds to be used, which has to do not only with the amount, but also with the way in which these funds are used.
We are working on this, and so, in particular, is the Commission.
