. – Madam President, I would first of all like to thank Mr Calabuig Rull for his fine and result-oriented cooperation, and would also like to thank the Commission, in particular Commissioner Verheugen, as the proposal submitted by the Commission is most serviceable, indicating a new direction for industrial policy.
Our group supports the draft resolution of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy; we helped to produce it and it reflects our own opinions.
On the other hand, we will be requesting split votes for some of the amendments, where the powers of the Member States are encroached on.
This is a danger we will not countenance.
The Commission does not have sole responsibility: the Member States themselves are also responsible for many areas, and they must discharge these responsibilities.
For us, modern industrial policy is a means to ensure that Europe remains an attractive location, and to safeguard competitive conditions in the context of globalisation.
Competitive industry is indispensable if the services sector is to be reinforced, as Mr Calabuig Rull has pointed out.
Industrial policy therefore forms the basis of, rather than a hindrance to, efforts towards opening up new markets in the services sector.
Industry, characterised by high quality standards and technological advances, was and still is the motor of economic development in Europe, and all measures concerning the environment and climate protection must be judged in terms of energy policy, to see whether they contribute to improving the framework conditions.
Of course, when we say that the Member States bear the responsibility for many measures, then we must consider whether we do not go too far in certain respects.
Better coordination: yes, European responsibility: no, sectoral groups of experts: yes, competence and strategy plans for enterprises and regions: no, employee participation: yes, but general veto rights for works committees: no.
I am convinced that if we follow these examples we can further improve Mr Calabuig Rull’s report, and, all told, that together with the Commission we can work out a serviceable instruction manual for future industrial policy in its relation to other policy areas.
