Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, it will come as no surprise to Mr Piecyk that I regard the argument with which he urges rejection as false.
We, too, would have liked to see a connection made with the monitoring of working times, but, if you had had your way late on the evening of 6 December, we would have ended up with nothing at all.
We would have had nothing to show for the two years we had spent in negotiations, and that is something we regard as unacceptable.
In line with the majority opinion as expressed this morning, I am all in favour of updating, modernising and simplifying social security regulations for the benefit of all concerned, and that is why we have to bring that about.
That is why I am appealing to all Members of this House to support the compromise when we vote at noon today.
All this can be summed up under three headings: improved road safety, better working conditions for drivers and, above all else, helping law-abiding haulage companies to be more competitive rather than sitting back and watching those that sit lighter to the law getting away scot-free with forcing their drivers to work longer hours than are permitted, simply because they are not checked up on.
Let all, then, vote to endorse the result we have got, which helps everyone – most of all the people who use roads.
There are, though, Commissioner, two points that I would like to make.
Thank goodness we have now sorted out this issue with the final date for the introduction of the digital tachograph.
Following on from what Mr Romagnoli saidI beg you to have more serious talks with the Member States and get them to guarantee that the state infrastructure will be in place and the driver cards made available, for the present state of affairs is unacceptable; the digital tachograph was originally meant to be introduced in August 2004, and we deferred it to May of this year on the sensible grounds that that would be more practicable for industry.
Now, though, it turns out that some Member States have still not got this organised, so perhaps you might consider hauling them before the courts.
