.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, Lisbon stands for growth, employment and thus, at its heart, for the competitiveness of the economy of the European Union, and I am delighted at the President of the Commission's personal commitment and at the fact that he is focussing his Commission's efforts in this area.
I would like to thank him for saying that a return to economic nationalism or – some want to put a positive spin on it – economic patriotism would mean the downfall of the European economy and would result in us not being internationally competitive at all in the globalised world.
I am therefore grateful for the combative attitude, and I hope you will say the same thing in the Council at the meeting of the Heads of State or Government.
Mr Winkler, we think very highly of you as a person, and we appreciate the fact that you are here, but when the President of the Commission is here it would be appropriate for the Presidency of the Council to be represented at a similarly high level, by a minister.
We need to bear that in mind.
I would like to make it clear that I have the greatest respect for you personally, but the institutions must have equal representation in such debates.
I say that quite independent of any party-political affiliation.
This is about the institutions of the European Union.
The European Parliament gives a high priority to the Lisbon process, which is a continuous process and is not limited to 2010.
That is why we set up the steering group under the chairmanship of Mr Daul.
I am pleased that the three largest groups – yes, and maybe one day the others will join in too, Mr Wurtz – are putting this at the heart of their activities, as of course is the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, even though they are not here, and maybe some others too ...
.... it is true, the leaders are not here, and you should be pleased that I am paying so much attention to them.
The single market, the free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, is the precondition for the European Union to be competitive on the global markets.
I call on the Heads of State or Government and on the governments to take Parliament's efforts regarding the Services Directive as their example.
To the governments I say: anyone who now wants to achieve something different will destroy this compromise on the Services Directive.
I therefore call on the governments to take the European Parliament as their example.
I also welcome the fact – this is not my job, but I am pleased as the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats – that one of the leaders of the Greens is now here.
Together we will forge Europe, Mr Cohn-Bendit.
We need the entrepreneurial spirit in the European Union.
Enterprises are not an abstract concept, and getting involved means making freedom a reality.
Entrepreneurial spirit means creating jobs.
We need a positive perspective in this connection.
Mr Barroso, we welcome the proposal you have put forward for a European Institute of Technology.
This must involve creating not a big new university authority, but a network between the various European technological institutes already in existence, so that we get added value and so that Europe can really be one of the global leaders in innovation and research.
You referred to GALILEO and Airbus.
We need new projects, and to that extent we support your considerations.
One final remark, as I do not have 15 minutes like the Council and the Commission: at some point, Mr President, we need to think about how we can achieve a better balance.
I would advocate that this House should work closely with the national parliaments on this issue, because it is our joint task, both nationally and in Europe, to make Europe competitive and to ensure that it develops well economically and in general.
