.
Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, this is a quite crucial week in terms of the credibility of the European Union and of this House in particular.
Demands are being made of European policymakers and of this House, and we have to face up to our responsibilities and discharge them.
We constantly affirm our desire to reduce mass unemployment, so we are credible only if we do something for those people who have no work, and we can do it now.
This week sees us voting on the services directive, which, if implemented, will be capable of creating 600 000 new jobs in Europe, provided that it is adopted in the same form as it has been by my own Industrial Committee or in that approved by the Committee on the Internal Market.
The compromise had taken on board the justified criticisms levelled at the Commission’s original draft, while also ensuring that new dynamism would be injected into the EU’s services market.
My opinion was accepted by the Industry Committee with only six of its members voting against doing so, but the attempt at a compromise that we now have before us, the result of haggling between the two major groups, testifies to their contempt for the specialised committees and the laborious work done by them.
The common denominator is, in the final analysis, so small that it does not justify the efforts of the past years.
This compromise is not only an assault on the principle of the internal market, to which we owe our prosperity and integration, but also a slap in the face for the new Member States, who have been virtually excluded from the negotiations on it.
The vote on the services directive gives us at the European level the opportunity to make our contribution to the Lisbon Strategy, for we do indeed know that the Member States are making heavy weather of at last doing what they said they would, and it would be a sign of this House’s bankruptcy if we failed to send out a clear message about the need for more new jobs.
The trade unions, who continue to spread untruths and panic, are left cold by these arguments.
Today, we can expect to see 30 000 well-organised trade unionists trying to prevent the creation of 600 000 new jobs.
Some are here to try and hang on to what they already have.
We now have the chance to clearly affirm our desire that Europe should be a better place in which to do business.
Let us make good use of it.
