– Mr President, representatives of the Council, I would like to draw your attention to Chapter 7, which deals with justice, freedom and security, since the rule of law, civil liberties and internal security are quite simply essential to a country’s security, and economic investment – which results in economic development and also social security – is dependent on them being present.
Development in Albania has followed a similar path to that in other states undergoing transformation.
The structures of organised crime were established more speedily and efficiently than those of the state, and the effects of that are being felt all over Europe.
Albania is a country of origin for international criminal organisations dealing in drugs, trafficking in people, laundering money and thereby funding terror, and it is also through Albania that such organisations pass; that being the case, and in view of the fact that we suffer the effects, joint engagement with Albania is in the interests of both parties.
Having seen it for myself, I can tell the House that Mr Berisha’s government is getting stuck in by prioritising an internal security programme and making use of its cooperative arrangements with Europe, for example in police projects with PAMECA (Police Assistance Mission of the EU to Albania), in customs and justice projects at parliamentary level, and, in particular, of the support given by the Stability Pact for South-Eastern Europe under its special coordinator Erhard Busek.
There has been tangible progress, but the problems – and the challenges – are still enormous.
This stabilisation and association agreement is, for Albania, a milestone as it progresses towards European standards; the message it sends out is not only political, but also signifies practical help and cooperation.
It is now for Albania to put into discharge in full the obligations of this agreement.
I hope that it will use this opportunity to improve its legal system, to train judges and prosecutors, to improve law enforcement and the prosecution of crime, the control of borders at sea and on land and cooperation between police forces.
I also hope that there will be enhanced cooperation between the EU and South-Eastern Europe, and I would particularly like to see Albania playing its part in developing the SECI Centre in Bucharest, which is a base for cooperation between police forces that could be the seedbed for something like a South-East European version of Europol and present an opportunity for combating organised crime.
Agreements, and the implementing of agreements, represent both a major challenge and an opportunity, not only to Albania, but also to us, to the European Union as a whole.
