. – Mr President, even though everything has really been said already, I should like to add something, as it is a matter of great concern to me that the European Capital of Culture really become what we have believed it should be all along, namely an advertising medium for European culture.
This cooperation, which was previously intergovernmental – it was actually a government action – has now developed into an interinstitutional matter.
This means that we enjoy excellent cooperation, and also, as Mrs Prets has already said, our voice has been heard.
For years, we have been appealing for something substantial for the panel to evaluate and select, for the cities to make an effort to reveal European added value and not just what they already have.
This action, in particular, makes us aware of the importance of European culture.
The cities are the culture bearers and cultural mediators of the EU.
This competition gives them the opportunity to bring a very great deal of elements together; there can be cross-border cooperation between regional cultures.
I could not agree more about the importance of also holding a competition to this end.
Taking Germany as an example, I can say that the competition to find the 2010 European Capital of Culture was a wonderful event, with 10 cities aspiring to be the best.
The initiatives they took did not peter out, but are being passed on.
They set up a network with the Hungarian cities, and I believe that the Commission should set great store by that.
The website is a potential tool for passing on such things, too.
I am pleased that the Commission has now overcome its administrative hurdles and a prize has been established – which is not really a prize, of course, but rather the money owing to a city, and means that the city finally has this money at its disposal as it begins its work.
All in all, this action is a very good thing, which, in both this context and that of our previous debate on citizenship, helps the public to see Europe’s great cultural diversity.
