. – Mr President, firstly, I am obliged to Mrs Vlasto, who has demonstrated great commitment in her preparation of this report and has also brought out the key points very well.
Chancellor Schüssel of the Austrian Presidency, who was here this morning, was himself once the secretary-general of an organisation for small- and medium-sized enterprises, which is why he is so familiar with the problems and knows the importance of doing more in this field.
I am also very much obliged to Commissioner Verheugen, because the Charter report has, of course, considerably increased the focus on SMEs, and thus further increased the focus on efforts to promote this kind of enterprise.
I believe that it is also good to regard this preliminary study – that is, the detailed, in-depth study that is being carried out in all the Member States – as a preliminary study on the Lisbon process, so as to give the Lisbon process, too, corresponding relevance.
In this way, we know what needs to be done in the field of SMEs to show the non-governmental organisations, and ultimately also the Council and the Commission, where the strong and weak points lie.
I consider it extremely important that the three pillars we have created here – ‘macro-economic’, ‘micro-economic’ and ‘employment’ – show clearly that, in the final analysis, SMEs account for 80% of taxes.
A social Europe must keep the spotlight on this.
We must look at where taxes are ultimately coming from and then, in future, reduce this burden on the enterprises and particularly the workers concerned, so that they can earn larger profits and higher salaries.
At the same time, excise tax should make a corresponding contribution to tax revenue, because imports from low-wage countries represent a particularly great opportunity for us in this regard.
The final point I should like to make is that I do not understand the reasons for the cuts in the framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (CIP), which puts the spotlight on entrepreneurship.
In this connection, we should work with the Commission in the context of this proposal to restore the full amount that was given to the CIP programme under the original proposal.
