. – Mr President, I listened very carefully to the Commissioner as he answered our questions, and I have to say that those answers were extraordinarily illuminating.
They can be summed up in a single sentence.
You answered the questions we put to you by saying that it is too early to give an answer.
Fair enough: we will wait and see what you will have to say in May, but what I would like to tell you is what the Socialist Group in this Parliament wants right now; we want Romania and Bulgaria to be able to become full Member States of the European Union on 1 January 2007.
We make no bones about that being our goal; these two countries’ governments represent different political camps, with one of them being ruled by our allies and the other by parties of a different political hue, yet we are firmly convinced that both governments – irrespective of their political complexion – are making enormous efforts to do the things that are being required of them.
It is for that reason that I can say today on behalf of our group that, if you believe there to be no enormous obstacles that you would bring to our attention in May; if, then, there is no change in the view you take of the situation, then we are taking it as read that this goal can indeed be achieved, and that the substance of our oral question, namely ‘will these states meet the criteria on 31 December 2006?’ can be answered with a resounding ‘yes’.
If it cannot be, then we will certainly have to debate the matter again, but, as of today, we are working on the assumption that it can be, and that is the message from all the members of our group, the message that my colleague Mr Poul Nyrup Rasmussen will be giving this House on behalf of the whole family of social democratic parties.
We would like to see both these countries join the European Union, we would like to see them do that because this will be the end of a long drawn-out process.
We would like to see them do that, because they will be welcome in the European Union.
I might add that another reason why we would like to see them do that is that we can see that this process of transformation, while it demands of them enormous efforts, is successful in that it makes them more secure, more stable and more democratic.
No bargains can be struck – we all know that – but we are confident that this process can be brought to a satisfactory conclusion, so let me say once more, on behalf of the Socialist Group, that, if the criteria are met, we will welcome these states into the EU.
