.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the members of our team – rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs alike – are deserving of warm thanks for their outstanding cooperation in a common cause.
That common cause was one and the same as the original intention of the directive: to do away, in Europe, with the accidents in heavy traffic and impairments to road safety caused by drivers suddenly succumbing to cumulative driving fatigue, as well as with the scandalous social dumping in the transport industry, which results in unfair competition not only between European countries but also between them and third countries, with all those who act fairly and properly – not least towards their employees – losing out.
During the conciliation process on this matter, though, it has to be said that we came up against a concrete wall – a concrete wall in the Council, which made it impossible for us to go as far as really would have been necessary and useful.
The fact is that the need for checks on driving times to take into account also the other periods of time when the driver was working is actually pretty much self-evident and ought really to be blindingly obvious.
If, though, this situation is to be improved overall, one thing is especially important, and it is to be found in the second part of the regulation – I refer to efficient monitoring.
That is now an obligation incumbent on the Member States, who must now carry out more frequent checks, so that the sort of scandals in the haulage industry with which we used to be familiar, and the serious accidents caused by cumulative driving fatigue, will at last be consigned to the past.
What eventually persuade me to support the directive after all was the need for this monitoring to be tightened up, for that is indispensable.
I believe that we need these rules if we are to achieve certain improvements, even if we do not yet have the coherence with the Working Time Directive that is needed.
Other points of criticism include, for example, the fact that some of the rules are so complex that those who are not initiated into their mysteries cannot understand them, or the excessively lengthy times allowed for the checks to be adapted.
I did, however, find it a rather bitter experience to discover that, right up to the end, the Council was not willing to be persuaded of the indispensability of measures aimed at making our roads safer and dealing with social dumping.
We did, nevertheless, manage to move forward, but we now have to ensure that the Member States actually do end up transposing the regulations and doing something in this area.
