. – Madam President, I should like to give the following reply to the questions regarding the TEN, the trans-European networks.
As regards the requested funding, the Commission has made a start, following the agreement reached at the December European Council, on assessing the prospects for Community financial aid within the new framework.
When this assessment has been completed, the Council will resume its discussions without delay, so that agreement can be reached as soon as possible on the definitive adoption of the proposal by the end of this year.
As regards the field of transport in general, it must be emphasised that Community financial aid in the field of the trans-European transport networks is intended for cofinancing projects that are often carried out within the framework of cooperation between national, public and also private authorities in the Member States.
The Community financial aid has the potential to, as it were, leverage funding from public and private authorities at national level and promote coordination between various national measures, particularly with regard to cross-border sections.
However, responsibility for implementing the projects remains with the Member States concerned – and also the participating actors, of course.
If the implementation of a project of common interest is considerably delayed, the Commission may, pursuant to Decision No 1692/96/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, consult the Member States concerned and adopt suitable measures, with due regard to the division of competences.
As regards the re-examination of the list of priority projects set out in the Decision, the Commission may, by virtue of its right of initiative, present legislative proposals within the framework of the report on the implementation of the guidelines that it has to present every two years.
On the subject of the funding for the TEN budget heading in the Financial Perspective for 2007–2013, I should like to make the general point, as regards the funding of TEN projects from resources for the trans-European networks in this period, that I have already advocated – when I appeared on behalf of the Presidency in Parliament’s Committee on Transport and Tourism on 25 January – that the resources for the trans-European networks be increased still further in the Financial Perspective if possible.
Accordingly, I have also made the decision-makers and negotiators aware of the importance and urgency involved and pointed out that it is not possible to disregard mobility and sustainability – for which the extension of the trans-European networks is an essential precondition – when announcing growth strategies and job creation at European level.
I was pleased to note that a compromise was reached at yesterday’s trialogue.
It is to be hoped that, by making use of all possible scope, we can now at least moderate the reduction of the TEN resources for the 2007–2013 period.
As President of the Transport, Telecommunications and Energy Council, I myself have constantly pointed out the importance of realising the TEN priority projects and, as I have already mentioned, have also made the responsible parties to the negotiations aware of this and applied pressure where this was possible and helpful.
I am pleased that agreement has been reached, at least for the time being, and hope, as I say, that we are now able to tackle at least the most important projects as a result.
