.
Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we are all deeply concerned by the events that have occurred in the Middle East, and our group very much regrets that the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mahmoud Abbas, is unable to speak to the European Parliament today.
At your proposal, Mr President, the chairmen of the groups decided to invite Mr Abbas here, because we see him as a man of self-control, conciliation and peace.
We therefore deeply regret that he cannot speak here today.
Mr President, you have explained the circumstances surrounding this.
In such situations, we are really pretty much helpless.
I would warn against jumping to hasty conclusions: we must be circumspect, and we must not exacerbate the spiral of violence.
However, we must demand an investigation into the storming of the prison in Jericho.
We must get an answer as to why this happened, and this answer must be convincing, if indeed there can be an answer at all.
As I am warning against hasty conclusions, at a time like this it is worth reminding ourselves of the principles.
We advocate an Israeli state within secure borders, but we also want a Palestinian state within secure borders.
The Israelis have the same status as the Palestinians, and the Palestinians have the same status as the Israelis.
I am convinced that, despite the pictures we have seen on television, the majority of people in both Israel and Palestine want to live peacefully.
We want to encourage everyone to follow this path to reach an understanding.
We call on all parties to put an end to the violence and to release the hostages – both European and non-European – because human dignity is a right for everybody.
I hope that the European Union will be able to make a contribution to peace in the region, in an objective, fair, non-partisan statement.
Our group supports anything that can help bring peace to the Middle East.
We very much hope – as you said, Mr President – that the time will soon come when the President of the Palestinian Authority, Mr Abbas, can make his speech to the European Parliament.
That is our heartfelt wish.
