– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, this Presidency has certainly equalled, and indeed, broken, a record: there has never before been a Presidency that has congratulated itself quite as heartily as this one.
Travelling between Austria and Brussels over the past six months, one experienced two completely different worlds.
The Austrian media were full of great successes being trumpeted by the Austrian Presidency.
At EU level and in other Member States, it doubtless all looked rather different.
That is not so much the case for the show elements: we have been practically bombarded with .
The results that should have come with them, however, were rather less intoxicating.
To return briefly to the Constitution, 'Europe is listening' should have been the motto, but how can we listen if we only talk to a few small groups of elites, such as at the ''.
Where were the big parliamentary forums, the great debates with the citizens?
Europe needed them as a matter of real urgency.
Austria, though, was satisfied with a 'diet' version of debate.
The critics of the Constitution had the subsidiarity conference as a forum, but otherwise there was not much to be seen.
Everything was postponed and put off.
According to Austria, the budget was a success story, but what really happened?
A minimum consensus was arranged, and they were happy to deprive Europe of precisely the resources that it needed in order to fulfil the duties given to it from other quarters.
However, this did not affect nuclear research.
Despite Austria's oft-stated anti-nuclear policy, there was no round table in this field, but funding for nuclear research was boosted in all areas.
No efforts have been made to move away from nuclear power, which is needed as a matter of urgency.
Chancellor Schüssel, you have said that the European life model should be promoted, but what we are talking about here is the European social model!
We do not need a half-hearted version, but a complete one. alone are not enough!
