. – Madam President, we too are grateful to the rapporteur.
I see the prevention of Daphne and the anti-drug campaign being merged together as a tremendous success for women throughout Europe.
In bringing this about, this House has sent out a signal and re-emphasised the need for the programme to combat violence against women, children and young people to remain independent.
Daphne is a small, but very successful, programme, which has already enabled important progress to be made in combating violence against women.
Violence against women is not a private matter, but rather an issue of internal security.
The most dangerous place for women is the home in which they live.
‘Family’ and ‘home’ may epitomise peace and security for many, but for millions of women, it is within the family and at home that they suffer, are abused, are tortured and even killed.
Human rights are an entitlement for all human beings of whatever gender, and neither culture nor tradition can excuse the violation of women’s fundamental rights.
It follows that violence against women is not just a women’s issue; it also affects men, who need to face up to their responsibilities and take action to deal with, and put a stop to, violence against women, not only in war zones but also in the bedroom.
Taking Daphne further cannot be the only thing we do to combat violence against women.
We would like to see the Commission produce a free-standing directive and thereby demonstrating that it attaches the highest political priority to the campaign against violence.
A proposal along these lines has been overdue for many years.
It is positively scandalous that the Commission should shut its eyes to the demand for one and should disregard the need for European legislation to be harmonised.
It really is quite essential that a free-standing directive be put in place, and, while I am on that subject, let me say that I would like to hear the Commission say something today about something concerning which we, in this House, have passed numerous resolutions, whether on International Women’s Day or on other occasions.
We also hope that the Commission and the Council will be able to wrap up negotiations on Daphne as soon as possible, so that the programme can be refinanced in good time for 2007.
It is important to us, too, particularly at a time like this, when the women’s rights campaigner Seyran Ateş has been forced by vicious threats to give up her lawyer’s practice in Germany, that we should put the spotlight on the violations of migrant women's human rights, and affirm that there will be, for them, ‘zero tolerance’.
