– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an important transport sector, aviation is of vital significance to economic development in Europe.
Worldwide and also in the EU, aviation is a growth sector, providing employment for more than four million Europeans.
Although aviation accounts for only approximately 3% of global CO2 emissions, this proportion is growing constantly.
The objective of our policy must be to reduce the climate-change impact without also reducing growth in this key sector.
The growth and competitiveness of our airlines must not conflict with the reduction of greenhouse gases.
The choice of instruments is vital to achieving this objective.
The introduction of a kerosene tax and the levying of departure or airline-ticket taxes would only result in dampening demand.
Making flying more expensive would reduce greenhouse gases, but only at the expense of growth, which is not absolutely necessary.
The incorporation of aviation into the Emissions Trading Scheme, as proposed by the Commission, is a better alternative from an environmental and economic point of view.
Emissions trading that is limited to the EU must offer guarantees that European airlines are not put at a disadvantage in comparison to other airlines.
In addition, emissions trading must not become an end in itself, but must primarily create incentives for investment in improved technologies.
The promotion of technology holds the key to harmonising the objectives of growth and reduction of CO2 emissions.
The European aviation and space-travel industry, in particular, has made a decisive contribution to the development of engines with greater fuel efficiency, and thus of cleaner aircraft.
In addition to the promotion of technology, two further aspects need to be taken into account that have been neglected in the debate on reducing emissions.
Firstly, the creation of a single European airspace and air traffic control area – the ‘Single European Sky’ project – and secondly the extension of airports.
Even without regulatory enthusiasm, we can achieve a considerable reduction in greenhouse gases by reducing flying distances and avoiding stacking.
