Mr President, it has already been said that the forthcoming European Council will not have any dramatic decisions to take.
Nevertheless, it could give out a very important twofold signal, namely ‘yes’ to enlargement, but also ‘yes’ to strengthening the institutions of the European Union, particularly in the context of the Union’s capacity to cope with enlargement.
It never ceases to amaze me when some of our British fellow Members say that we do not need a constitution but we do need a lot of new Members.
Equally, some Polish fellow Members – particularly on the right – are opposed to the Constitution, but believe that Ukraine must join as soon as possible.
That will not be possible.
There will not be majority support among the people, or in this House, for further enlargement unless the relevant changes are also made, including the EU’s capacity to cope with this enlargement.
We need to face this fact.
Anyone in favour, as I am, of setting further enlargement in motion will certainly be reflecting on how to make a place in the EU for Ukraine.
He or she will also have to state quite clearly, however, that the EU first needs to be given the necessary strength.
The fundamental content of this Constitution needs to be implemented, however, be it in the present or an amended Constitution.
If there is a consensus on this and the Council also says so clearly, this will send out a clear signal, the right signal.
As rapporteur for Croatia, I am also delighted that a clear signal has been sent out to Croatia.
The country has long deserved its own negotiations.
I will also be very pleased when we state clearly – including in relation to Thessaloniki, and maybe in even stronger terms than we did in Salzburg – that we have an obligation to the Balkans, not only in the interests of the countries themselves, but also in our own interests.
If, however, we also state clearly and unambiguously that we first need to strengthen and reform our institutions accordingly – people will understand – then that will be an important signal; one could even say that it was an epoch-making signal that this European Council was sending out.
As regards the partnership with the USA, the Summit with this country follows the European Council, and preparations will also have to be made for this.
We have said time and again that this partnership is desirable and necessary.
Yet it must be based on common values, one of which is respect for human rights, and that is why Guantánamo and the issue of the activities of the CIA are so important to us, why it is so important to us that these issues be on the agenda.
This is not because we want to detract from the USA or from the fight against terrorism, but because we want to conduct the fight against terrorism alongside the USA – on the basis of these common values.
