– Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Frithjof Schmidt, who dealt with the problem in a very objective-oriented manner and successfully put it to the vote.
Although the topic has been dealt with by the Commission and Parliament on numerous occasions, there is always the need for further action so that fair trade can continue to develop efficiently and successfully.
What is important here is that central standards and criteria are introduced on which basis the market should develop.
However, as far as this fledgling sector is concerned, consideration must constantly be given to the fact that precipitous directives always involve the risk of schematic harmonisation and over regulation.
With a figure of 60-70% of total sales, Europe is the largest sales market for fair trade products and offers, based on my assessment, further opportunities for growth.
In this regard, it is a matter of particular concern for me that municipalities, towns and cities, and other regional administrative bodies are reminded time and again and asked to consider fair trade products in their invitations to tender as well as use them at various events and suchlike.
Given the meagre production diversity in fair trade products, the customer is often unsure whether the product designated as such is actually a fair trade product in the first place.
The bigger this market, the greater the uncertainty.
Therefore, we may have to consider a European fair trade logo in future.
For the producers of fair trade products, I am calling for price structuring which ensures their existence, fair production conditions and adherence to environmental standards in the context of sustainable development.
Fair trade must be inseparably linked to key labour standards.
Now that we have succeeded in creating positive framework conditions for developing and promoting fair trade, as Europeans, we are able to assume a very important role as a pacesetter in this sphere.
