– Mr President, I am obliged to my fellow Members, and should like to pass on some of this great praise to my collaborators.
Mr Mulder, I was also pleased with your contribution.
We agree with each other in substance, but I am also pleased that you have praised my commitment.
Of course, we are both now getting on a bit and have been in this business a long time; yet we are still concerned with things, we have not tired of fighting for what we think is right.
When you complain that there are only two types of quality indication, I share your criticism.
This must be extended; we must not only afford safety in the sense that people will not die from eating something, but also respect pleasure in eating, as well as quality, origin and the endeavours of generations.
This combination of free-market economy and quality assurance is exactly what we need.
Market orientation is a good thing, of course, but it needs to be combined with an appreciation of what is being achieved here.
In reply to the question a little while ago as to whether this is a purely administrative matter, I can only say: no, it is not an administrative matter, it is a system developed over generations that is now being given legislative and administrative safeguards.
That is rather different from having something imposed on us.
If there were no benefit to be gained from this, we would not be having this discussion within the WTO.
It is natural that the multinationals are keeping a watchful eye on the added value being created here – and that is considerable.
Among us, Ireland – of which I have now twice heard mention – has unfortunately yet to set a good example, and I would urge it to encourage those of its regions manufacturing products in this way to submit a request.
There must be no omissions in this regard.
This is one aspect of the information that we, Parliament included, are able to provide.
I should also like to mention the cooperation with Mrs Lulling.
She may not be the eldest, but she is the longest-serving among us.
Anyone who has worked with her knows that this is not always an easy task.
This is not only to do with political orientation, but also with Mrs Lulling as a person.
Nevertheless, we have managed to table joint amendments in some fields.
I should like to mention some of the particularly important of those here.
For some obscure reason, the Council has introduced a provision that any natural or legal person having a legitimate interest can have a registration of a designation of origin or of a special quality indication cancelled.
Indeed, since we are talking about added value here, the desire to transform this into trademarks will naturally arise.
To show that we are not carrying out a commercial activity here, we have tabled a joint amendment.
I would ask the Commission to really ensure that the Council incorporates this.
If a protected designation is cancelled, it cannot be transformed into a trademark for a period of five years.
This gives us some leeway, and makes it that little bit more expensive for those who wish to transform designations into trademarks and are offering the people or the regions something in return.
We must proceed very carefully in such situations.
I hope that the Commissioner will take this further.
I should like to express my sincere thanks for such a constructive discussion here today.
