. () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as several speakers have pointed out, Tunisia is a partner of ours, and I believe that it is important that we should treat it as one, without ignoring all the difficulties involved.
You have also pointed out that this is a country that serves as an example to others, that it plays an important part in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership, and that our striving for a dialogue between religions and civilisations makes it important that we should keep on talking to a secular and moderate Islamic country.
It is for that reason that I believe that the political and diplomatic measures for which we opt in addressing violations of human rights – and nobody will deny that the human rights situation in Tunisia is unsatisfactory – must be proportionate, and what that means is that we should try to take the sort of action that brings results, while also – and this is where I can do no other than agree with Mr Busuttil – maintaining our own credibility by means of a consistent, coherent and clear human rights policy.
Mrs Trautmann laid particular emphasis on cooperation in the judicial sphere, and this is something that strikes me as particularly important.
Being a lawyer myself, and having practised as one for many years, I cannot do other than endorse that view, for an independent and operational justice system is crucial to the functioning of a democracy.
I therefore believe that we and the Commission must support and foster those projects and work with Tunisia towards an independent and functioning justice system.
Several speakers also said that nothing has been done about the demand for an urgent meeting of the Association Council.
Perhaps I might remind you that the calling of an Association Council meeting requires the consent of both parties, but this Association Council will now convene in July, when it is not a matter of doubt that we will use this opportunity to express to Tunisia our disquiet, our concern and our expectations.
I do believe, then, that we should press on with our policy, which is a very coherent one aimed at improving the human rights situation in Tunisia, and I do think we are on the right track here.
As I indeed said in my introductory remarks, some progress has been made, and I trust that it will be possible for more to be achieved.
You may be assured that the Council and, I am sure, the Commission, too, will maintain a consistent line on this matter.
