Mr President, Mr Schüssel, you have asked us to say , and to display a little more joy.
That is something we Alemannians can welcome too, even though people say that when we want to laugh we go into the cellar to do it.
However, please let me respond to your musical allusion with a literary quotation.
I do not know what you have just shared with the important people in this Chamber, but I would say ‘I hear the message well, but lack Faith’s constant trust’.
You know, of course, to beware joy if it stems from repression or denial, because fake joy can make you lose all grip on reality and can then lead to political depression.
That is even worse than .
What does the closing balance look like?
We are dealing with the greatest peacetime redistribution in human history.
A great deal has been promised.
What has actually changed?
You yourself mentioned the issue of the referendums.
What has become of those?
Now we no longer hear about them.
There is also silence on the question of the European Union’s absorption capacity, as well as on the question of transparency.
You yourself said here on 18 January that the amount of money wasted on many programmes is lamentable and that there are remedies for this, namely inspections.
Such information should be published, and the right thing to do would be to publish details of subsidies that have been awarded.
Yet there is also silence on this matter now.
In the meantime, I have raised two parliamentary questions on this issue.
What do your friends at Raiffeisen get, what does the ORF get, what do the others get?
Silence is the opposite of transparency, and without transparency there is no democracy.
There has been no answer: all there has been is silence, silence, silence, silence, silence, silence and more silence.
Silence leads to stillness and stillness leads to a standstill.
That will not do.
By the way - and I am sure even you have got wind of this - the Austrian Presidency seems to have acquired the kind of reputation that goes with the nickname , ‘the blow-out meal’.
That will not do either.
There can only be real joy if we have democracy, controls and justice, and so let us see how far these values can take us.
