– Mr President, if anyone is seriously interested in this whole area – and it is, after all, a matter of protecting the financial interests of the Community – then I would recommend him to read about how this House has already discussed this matter on similar occasions and, above all, to read what amendments have been discussed in the Committee in the run-up to the report and then later not adopted.
More specifically: this report does no more than barely scratch the surface of the fundamental problems in this Union.
If we go the heart of the matter, then we are not dealing with 1% irregularities, but with much greater funds that are – at the very least – not being spent in a sensible way.
I am thinking of the EUR 5 to 7 billion for Tacis and many other areas, for example administration, where money is wasted.
This report, therefore, is so limited that it amounts to little more than a smokescreen, because it does not address the really essential questions.
Even the rapporteur himself says that nobody has any idea what kind of irregularities we are dealing with when it comes to enlargement.
Despite this we admit new countries, because the crux of the matter is that the institution that is actually supposed to deal with irregularities is potentially a great embarrassment for Parliament.
The Commission has, accordingly, made proposals on how OLAF is to be reformed.
Clearly, this report falls short of those proposals.
Amendments have been rejected, demanding that OLAF should work in a proper, reliable and comprehensible manner – at least in the limited areas in which it has been active until now.
However, all of these demands were rejected by the Committee.
Now we are told that it is great that we have already got so far.
No, we have not got that far yet, not by a long chalk.
In so far as investigations are carried out at all, they are arbitrary.
When people act as if they are prosecuting fraud, but then fail to do so, these procedures are unconstitutional.
We are faced here with an absolutely crucial problem for this Union: namely, that money is simply being wasted in many areas.
Most of you know this, but we should not pretend that this report is going to bring about a great improvement.
