. – Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance gives its wholehearted backing to an independent and effective gender institute, and endorses Mrs Gröner’s and Mrs Sartori’s report in its entirety.
Many in this House ask why we need a new Institute.
Why do we need one?
We need one because gender equality is the distinguishing feature of the European Union, for the European Union has said that we see equality as one of the European Union’s values, and because we know that women are still being discriminated against.
Contrary to what Mrs Ludford has just said, we are not talking here only about violations of human rights.
This discrimination is going on in the labour market, in sport, and in many other areas.
We know that women have a part to play in shaping the future, not only in terms of their potential in the Lisbon process, but also, for example, in terms of demography, where their role is positively crucial.
Mothers, in particular, have a central role to play as regards the violations of the rights of women migrants.
Yesterday, we heard from Commissioner Frattini how we still have too few statistics on forced prostitution.
This European Gender Institute is what we need.
In the past, the European Union was a beacon of equality policy.
A ‘no’ vote would be a disaster; it would mean a real rupture in the European Union, and would amount to an admission by this House that its equality policy had nothing left to offer.
It is for these reasons that I urge the House to vote in large numbers in favour of this Equality Institute.
It needs to be made visible in this way.
The Gender Institute is not, however, a substitute for legislative initiative.
We will be vigilant in ensuring that equality policy does not run into the sand.
The Gender Institute must not be allowed to become a means of appeasement or of distraction from the lack of legislative action.
A Gender Institute will not make equality policy any less necessary a component in legislation, and we really will hold the Commission to that.
So let me again ask for really strong support for this report.
