– Mr President, Commissioner, you have reported many positive things, but even so I would like to express a few doubts.
Firstly I would like to say that it is not enough to pin the problem only onto the football World Cup and onto Germany.
We have used the World Cup in order to bring a taboo subject to the attention of the public, simply because football is such a big event.
There is no other event so spectacular and with such a large audience as the football World Cup.
Forced prostitution takes place alongside all big events, and not only sports events.
As we know, the incidence of prostitution also increases here in Strasbourg when this House is in session here, and that too needs to be said in order that everything should not be blamed on sport.
Despite this I support the project and I am pleased that the World Cup has made it possible for us to bring this issue into the public eye.
If FIFA has perhaps misunderstood this and feels itself under attack, then I regret this, since it could have supported us brilliantly with many great football players and stars, and made the fans more aware of these related issues.
This does not mean that FIFA is responsible for the problem, but it could have helped us, and, I think, should have been obliged to do so.
Commissioner, you spoke about the telephone helpline.
Back on Women’s Day you told us that there would be a single number, translated into many languages and available 24 hours a day.
I ask you: Is it really available 24 hours a day?
Regrettably there is no single number.
Now women, victims or even clients who have the courage to try to get help, or who want to report something, now have to note down three different numbers, or rather they have to dial different numbers.
I do not regard that as being particularly helpful, and I would ask you to pursue this matter further, especially in the future.
You have talked about enhanced cooperation with Europol.
The question is, however: whether Europol itself has been strengthened, for, if we are making increased demands on Europol, then the officials there must be equipped accordingly - otherwise they will be overburdened and once again there will be no proper outcome.
I would like to ask you to look into this as well.
It is no use just saying that you are participating: we need results too.
This activity should be coordinated with our work together with Interpol, and I am glad that the German authorities – the embassies, consulates and so on – are participating in this too.
Perhaps after the World Cup we can draw up a summary, showing how the emergency calls have been responded to, from which countries of origin most of the victims come and, above all, what has been done to take care of the victims.
These are questions that must be asked after the World Cup.
I have one further question: How much of the action plan – presented by the Council and with which you are involved – has been implemented by now, by June?
A large part of it should already have been completed, and the rest should be taken care of by the end of the year.
I wish us all much success, and: Let us show forced prostitution the red card!
