.
Mr President, Commissioner, Mr High Representative, ladies and gentlemen, although I am unable, in the short space of time available to me, to revisit in detail all the many issues that have been mentioned in this debate, there are a few points I would like to address which I, as a representative of the Council, regard as important.
The High Representative was the first to say – and many of you echoed him – that there is a global demand for European foreign policy.
It is also something that matters to the European public, and we – that is the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament – must join together in working to meet that need; as Mr Watson said earlier, we must build the European Union on a foundation of values, and that is very obviously and specifically the case in foreign policy, where we have to be exemplary if we want to bring peace and stability to the world.
I can only agree with that wholeheartedly and assure you that the Austrian Presidency, like the presidencies that preceded it and those that will follow it, is committed, during its six months in office, to the values of the protection of human rights, to the fundamental freedoms, and also, to echo what Mr Geremek said, to what is generally termed ‘human security’ – the striving for health, the campaign against weapons and rearmament.
The European Union’s foreign policy is a peaceful one; we are not, in that sense, a military power.
Pre-emptive diplomacy is the essential thing.
Within our commitment to multilateralism, we endeavour to act in line with the United Nations Charter and in accordance with international law.
That is the only way we can maintain our credibility in the eyes of the world.
I would like to comment briefly on some of the issues that have been raised.
In response to the many speakers who mentioned energy policy, I would like to add to what was said by Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner.
It goes without saying that the Commission is playing a quite essential and important role in this area, and the Council Presidency is working in very close cooperation with it.
The issue of a European energy policy will be a quite central one at the European Council in March, for which the British Presidency has already laid the foundation stone.
We want to continue what it has started.
Reference has also been made in this debate to the security of energy supply, which is a quite crucial issue, which involves the diversification of energy sources and networks, as well as the reduction of one-sided dependency on energy suppliers and networks and, in particular, the support for, and active promotion of, renewable energy and alternative energy sources.
This is, of course, a matter to which we will devote our attention.
Russia has been mentioned again and again in this context; the European neighbourhood policy in general terms and the European policy in relation to Russia are both of quite fundamental importance.
Russia is an important partner, and, in maintaining a dialogue with it, we need to highlight the values of which I have spoken; it goes without saying that human rights are another issue that needs to be raised with Russia, and they are, in a very wide-ranging dialogue.
I do believe, though, that we must be aware of the fact that Russia is just as important a strategic partner for the European Union as is the United States.
I am most especially grateful to Mrs Beer for raising the subject of the Balkans, as did Mr Solana in his introduction.
The Austrian Council Presidency will, over its six months in office, be regarding the Western Balkans as having the utmost priority in the interests of the stability of the region and hence in the interests of peace and stability in Europe.
Something else said on the subject of European foreign policy was that we should concentrate primarily on our own neighbours.
That is what we are doing, and it is important that we should do so, but there is, in today’s world, no crisis or situation that does not also touch upon the interests and stability of the European Union; that is what makes the European Union a global player, and that, too, is why it must equip itself with the resources needed to perform that role.
Today, the High Representative is tireless – in the truest sense of the word – in jetting around the world in the service of peace, and he does so in the interests of a credible European foreign policy, in our own interests, and also in the interests of stability and peace in Europe.
I would now like to address an issue that is of particular importance to the general public and is also among the priorities for the Austrian Presidency of the Council.
By that I mean the protection of European citizens in third countries, for which, as recent events and crises have already demonstrated, we in the European Union bear responsibility.
The Austrian Presidency of the Council wants to help make consular cooperation better organised to protect citizens when they are abroad and also to equip it with the proper resources.
Finally, let me turn to what was said about China.
The only thing I want to say about the arms embargo is that there is at present, as you will be aware, no consensus in the Council on this.
The issue is not on the agenda, but, quite apart from how this decision may turn out, it is a matter of principle for the Council and for European foreign policy that there will be no increase in the quantity of arms exported to China.
