. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the vast majority of us in this House are not opposed to the strengthening of security where that is necessary, nor are they hostile to the United States or to reasonable cooperation with them in those areas in which we and they have cooperated in the past and will need to do so in the future too.
The attacks on major European cities teach us – as they have done before – that the European Union and the United States need to collaborate, not least in security matters, but – and I am sure that this is the fundamental criticism that most in this House would make – what is required of the agreement on the forwarding of passengers’ personal details as part of the war on terror is that it should be rational and coherent.
What has been put before this House can certainly not be described in those terms.
Members from various groups have already spoken to address the fundamental problems that there are with it, the first of which is the use to which the data is to be put, and second the legal basis by reference to which the data is to be forwarded.
My group is not alone in having fundamental doubts about both of these.
The data should be used solely for the purpose of combating terrorism, and not with any other ends in view, and, in the final analysis, it is highly problematic in legal terms that citizens of the European Union should not be on an equal footing with citizens of the United States; it is not acceptable that our citizens should enjoy fewer rights than do their American counterparts.
What is needed is an even-handed and consistent agreement that guarantees the protection of data and deliberately restricts its use to the combating of terror and terrorism.
Political ends must not be treated as superior to fundamental rights.
That which underpins the rights enjoyed by all the citizens of this European Union of ours is something inalienable, and it is with grave concern that we see them being slowly eroded.
