.
Mr President, I am very grateful to both the rapporteurs for their report.
I know that the issues that Mr Brok has just raised have prompted a great deal of debate, not least within the political groupings in this House, and there is much to be said for both positions.
Perhaps we have to begin with the issues of substance, which we may well have neglected to some degree; how, for example, can we persuade the public that Europe needs a constitution of the kind that has been drafted?
I gave a number of examples in the opinion I drafted on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and perhaps I can adduce one that did not yet count for much at the time I was writing, but has acquired significance over the past few days in this House.
I refer, of course, to the issue of energy.
It was pretty surprising, indeed pretty astonishing, to see how many Members of this House who had, until recently, perhaps taken a rather sceptical view of such things, are now forthright advocates of a common energy policy; I was delighted to hear what Mr Saryusz-Wolski had to say on the subject.
The Federal Chancellor is a constant advocate of subsidiarity; today, as President of the Council, he argued strongly in favour of a common energy policy.
This is just one example showing how important it is that the powers and prerogatives that we, particularly in the Constitution, have accorded to the European level be used to the utmost.
I see this as the road down which we must go.
I could, at this point, for example, talk about space policy, which has been another topic for debate in this place, and which is not about sending Europeans into space, but rather about monitoring the environment or giving warnings of tsunamis in good time.
There are plenty of other things that are realistic and feasible and capable of being explained to the public if we focus on matters of substance rather than the institutional issues.
What we in this House expect, of course, is a road map or sketch of how things are to progress.
I beg you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in all the weighty matters with which you will have to deal over the coming weeks and months of this Presidency, to highlight how much better we could handle them if we had a European constitution.
That is absolutely vital.
