– Mr President, Commissioner, our group is genuinely committed to developing the strategic partnership between the EU and China, but these relations must be based upon complete openness, credibility and responsibility.
We must not sacrifice our convictions for the sake of economic or political considerations; rather, we must use plain language when speaking with our Chinese partners.
I would like to thank you, Commissioner, for the clear words which you have spoken in your opening speech, and I encourage you to make the same speech at the summit in Helsinki.
If we are open and honest with each other, then we have a good chance of further developing the strategic partnership in a sensible way.
Please allow me to make three further points.
Like the Commission, we must continue to demand from the government of the People’s Republic of China that it implements the basic principles of fair world trade, now that it has joined the WTO.
They cannot get away with the excuse that central government does not know what is happening in every province.
The protection of intellectual property must be enforced, and if the Chinese Government can enforce its political convictions in every prison, then it must also be able to implement the protection of intellectual property on every factory floor.
Secondly, we call upon the National People’s Congress to finally ratify the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.
They have signed it, but they are postponing the ratification.
They return to this point in the discussions which we are always glad to have with them and they say that it is so difficult and that they have to prepare themselves first.
No: they have signed, so they should ratify, and they should implement human rights.
Implementation means, in practice: freedom of religion, freedom of the press, and freedom of speech.
This must be guaranteed.
There must also be cultural autonomy for Tibet.
I do not think that Mr Ford has understood things quite rightly: China must make the first move in changing the way it relates to its neighbours.
It must also change its relations with its neighbours Japan and Taiwan.
Indeed, as far as Taiwan is concerned, of course all of us in the House would like there to be a political dialogue between Peking and Taipei, but this must not occur in the form of threats.
It is therefore completely nonsensical of the Socialists to have called – as they did recently – for the lifting of the arms embargo.
You should instead get back to showing solidarity with the democrats in this House.
As long as there are human rights violations in China, there should be no lifting of the embargo.
