– Mr President, this is a difficult thing for me to say, but Mr Schulz is absolutely right in everything he has said.
I do not think I have ever said that in this House before, and it does not seem likely that I will ever do it again, but he has spelled out where the problem lies, namely in balancing the sovereignty of the Member States against the Union’s capacity to act.
How much are the Member States prepared to concede, and how much capacity to act do they want the EU to have?
This is aptly reflected in the saying to the effect that the spirit is willing, but the flesh weak.
Perhaps, in this instance, it will be the German Presidency of the Council that will send out the signal that moves the European Union further ahead, but I have to say that I would like to see Finland and Portugal acting as particle accelerators, for Germany, although large, is sluggish; it is comparable with France in being a country with great traditions, but not much in the way of speed.
Like an oil tanker, it is slow and unmanoeuvrable, and less innovative than countries like Finland where these matters are concerned, and so I ask that you help the German Presidency of the Council to make it easier to weigh up where the fundamental key issues are.
On the subject of immigration, Günther Beckstein, the Bavarian Interior Minister, made a disastrous error when he claimed that it would not be too much to expect Spain to take in 25 000 people, for what matters is not whether or not it is reasonable that they should be expected; the real point is that the fate of people – people in desperate need – waiting offshore, is at stake.
As far as migration in search of work is concerned, the German Federal Interior Minister, Wolfgang Schäuble, made it abundantly clear that legal migration cannot be considered in isolation from the labour market, so we know that nothing is happening on that front either, and, as for the Human Rights Agency that is so important to you, what the German Federal Chancellor, Angela Merkel, had to say about that was, in effect, ‘well, yes, all right, if we do not have any choice in the matter, but why do we have to have an agency to watch over our own fundamental rights?’
You can see, then, where the problem lies, so I ask you to put your particle-accelerating skills to use; you can enable Germany to make a good job of its term in the Council Presidency.
At the moment, it is a prospect that fills me with foreboding.
