Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Seventh Research Framework Programme will contribute to making the European Union somewhat more competitive in our globalised world, but unfortunately only somewhat more.
We have not reached many of the original targets, and we will not do so.
To avoid any misunderstandings: under the given conditions, Mr Buzek and his colleagues have made the best of the programme, but research spending certainly has not been doubled.
The clear increase in the budget in comparison with the Sixth Framework Programme is a step in the right direction, but we are still miles away from the doubling of the budget that was originally planned and is still urgently required.
Other economic areas in the world show considerably higher rates of increase in research spending, which means that we are going to fall still further behind in comparison with those areas.
The consequences of that will hit us hard and have long-term effects on prosperity, the labour market and social peace.
We must concentrate the limited resources in a few key areas.
We have set strategic targets to which everything else must be secondary, and we must regularly monitor whether we are achieving those targets.
We must ensure that the research results do not end up gathering dust in cupboards or laboratories, but rather that our businesses can use those results to generate added value and therefore new jobs in Europe.
I have the impression that we really have not been good enough in this area in the past few years.
In conclusion, I call on the Member States to invest money from the Structural Funds in building research and development capabilities in their countries.
That will enable the Seventh Research Framework Programme to concentrate properly on excellence in research.
At the same time, the Member States can invest additional money in building research and development capabilities.
If we want to maintain prosperity, jobs and social peace in Europe in the future, the Seventh Research Framework Programme and the CIP are the first step, but we still have a long journey ahead of us, and we absolutely must do better.
