.
Madam President, may I perhaps begin by saying – because it is something in which I take a very personal interest – that the Council constantly argues for the unconditional preservation of all international standards of human rights and of humanitarian international law in the context – and particularly in the context – of the fight against terrorism.
The Council has also expressed this in legislative acts and programmes, as for example the framework decision of 13 June 2002 on combating terrorism and the EU Counter-Terrorism Strategy of 1 December 2005.
The foreign ministers discussed the question of the camp in Guantánamo during their dinner on the occasion of the 22/23 March European Council in Brussels, noting among other things that Guantánamo remains a cause for serious concern.
They noted that the Heads of Government of some of the United States’ close allies have called for Guantánamo to be closed and that those calls were right and came at the right time.
Some EU ministers also pointed out that they had already voiced their concern at meetings with the US Secretary of State in Brussels.
I should also point out that the Council President, Foreign Minister Plassnik, stated publicly on 22 March that EU Member States and US allies had already called for Guantánamo to be closed on a number of occasions.
She went on to say: ‘Those calls were good and important, but they were not enough.’
On the principle that no one can be above the law, the EU has for some time been conducting a purposeful legal dialogue with the United States with the aim of ensuring that humanitarian international law and human rights are applied in the fight against terrorism.
We assume – and I quote again – ‘that Guantánamo will soon be a thing of the past’.
This was said in recognition of the fact that terrorism must be fought in a manner that is credible and consistent with human rights and that we have to insist on that, especially as the European Union, which is offering possible solutions.
