– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start with warm thanks to our rapporteur for his good report and also for his constructive cooperation.
Digitalisation is bringing massive change into the media and communications landscape; in future, the distinction between infrastructure and content will become less important, for every kind of content will be accessible on any platform.
Every type of content will end up being accessible using every kind of technology, be it the television set, the computer or the mobile phone, and another revolutionary thing is, of course, that all this content is available, to high quality, on all platforms and via all technologies even now.
More and more service providers are competing with one another in a market place that includes telecoms companies, cable operators, satellite broadcasters, mobile telephone companies, content providers, ISPs and so on and so on and so on.
All of them are devising their own business models, and none of them knows – any more than do we – which of these models will end up prevailing and what, at the end of the day, viewers actually want to access, what they want to see, or the sort of content they would like.
That does of course present us, as European lawmakers, with problems, since we have to draw up the legal framework and must, in so doing predict these imponderables and the way these things will develop, about which there is no certainty.
Over the coming weeks and months, we will have a very large number of questions to answer.
I am very grateful to Mr Paasilinna and to all the Members who have contributed to this report for reformulating essential issues in it and summarising them.
Let me mention a few of them.
How much regulation will still be needed in future in the telecoms field?
How much influence should the European Union have on that?
How do we want to shape frequency policy?
One problem that is extremely vexatious to the public is that of international roaming, for they still incur far too many charges when phoning across borders on mobiles.
Over the coming weeks and months, we will be occupying ourselves with these questions.
I look forward to an interesting dialogue with you, and I think that the digital world, which presents legislators such as ourselves with so many challenges, will certainly keep us busy over the coming weeks and months.
