.
Mr President, while endorsing what the Council and the Commission have had to say about European energy policy, I do believe that there are areas in which we have to be rather more definite and specific.
For a start, the big consumers – the EU, the USA, China and India – must do more to have a joint effect on the market, rather than only competing against one another for energy supplies.
Secondly, we should turn our attention to infrastructure, and give thought – not as a state, but with our firms and businesses – to having the infrastructure owned and managed on a common basis, so as to avoid monopolies.
Thirdly, we have to do something about the situation in which the WTO has procedures for settling disputes on everything from textiles to shrimps, but not on products as important as gas and oil.
Fourthly, we need to develop the infrastructure, one example being the Nabucco project, to which the Minister referred, which is very important and which the European Union should support.
Fifthly, all the Member States must diversify and come up with proposals on the basis of which a single European project can come into being.
My sixth point is that renewable resources must, of course, be given priority.
I share the President-in-Office’s scepticism about nuclear power, but the debate will go ahead and we have to ensure that it takes into account all the positive aspects and points of criticism and does not leave out the issue of how to dispose of the waste.
We certainly cannot – and this is my seventh point – insist on a single energy policy with every country; only by taking national differences into account can we – particularly in the eyes of the outside world – justify a single energy policy.
You, Commissioner, will recall how, at the hearing, I asked you for a programme that combined energy policy and foreign policy.
I made the same request of Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, but nothing, unfortunately, has as yet been forthcoming.
I really would press you to put forward such a programme as a matter of urgency, in the Green Paper at the latest, so that we will have a consistent policy that we can defend to the wider world.
Let me conclude by making it quite clear that, while we want – and need – partnership with Russia, its latest actions are unacceptable.
We need Russia to treat its neighbours fairly, for they are our neighbours too.
