– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although the relaxed visa regime for students and sportsmen is a first step, the return of illegal immigrants is highly questionable, and there are many other questions to which the May summit produced no answers.
There can be no successful modernisation of the state apparatus, of the economy and of the armed forces if there is a lack of will on the part of the government and of interest on the part of the predatory capitalists who are only after profit with dirty money.
The rule of law and the democratisation of the country are being hamstrung; the violations of human rights in Chechnya are a tragedy.
The new law on non-governmental organisations is curtailing the rights of civil society and the freedom of expression.
Critics of the regime are treated in ways that run counter to the standards of the Council of Europe, with political prisoners such as Mikhail Khodorkovsky and Platon Lebedev – the latter of whom is seriously ill – being subject to physical assault and psychological intimidation.
The legal system being under the thumb of politicians, it is an open question as to whether Russia is a reliable source of energy.
Europe would be playing with danger if it were to make itself too dependent.
What the gas supply dispute with Ukraine at the beginning of the year showed us was that Europe, too, could see its supply turned off in the event of a dispute.
Transparency and good governance are mentioned, but there is not enough evidence of them.
The Yukos case exemplifies the need for the government to disclose the ways in which the state and the energy companies are interconnected and mutually dependent.
At the time of the elections in Belarus, the EU charged Lukashenko with electoral fraud, authoritarianism and corruption.
Putin, on the other hand, congratulated his ally on his victory.
It is because we regard democracy, human rights and the rule of law as fundamental that they must not be allowed to decay in a strategic partner such as Russia.
