. () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as both the Federal Chancellor himself, the Foreign Minister, and I myself have already told you, relations with Russia are of particular strategic significance, and it is therefore obvious that the Austrian Presidency treated this 17th EU-Russia summit in Sochi on the Black Sea on 25 May as a special priority.
In essence, the summit considered important issues in our relations with Russia, including the implementation of the common roadmap, the situation in the EU and in the Russian Federation, and future treaty relationships, but also international issues.
At the heart of discussions, though, and for reasons that will be obvious to you, was the important topic of energy.
As you are all aware, only a few hours into the presidency, something occurred that the Federal Chancellor has termed a ‘wake up call’, and that has resulted in the European Union developing a deeper interest in this topic.
I would also like to remind your House of the conclusions from the March European Council.
The issue of relations in matters concerning energy, particularly with Russia, has also been the subject of in-depth internal debate within the European Union, and so the summit offered a good initial opportunity for talks with President Putin about the gas dispute between Russia and Ukraine, which triggered the January crisis.
Although President Putin strongly defended Russia's actions and tried to explain them, he was very struck by the strength of the European Union’s reaction in this matter.
Not only did the March European Council, for the first time, lay the foundations of a European energy policy, but it also had an impact on discussions in Russia.
The European Council at the end of this week will be taking a paper by the High Representative and the Commission as the basis for deliberations on the external dimension of the European Union’s energy policy, which will also take account of the positions expressed by Russia at the summit.
The deliberations of the G8, which are to meet in St Petersburg in July, will also take account of the discussion on energy at the summit.
You will be aware that, under the Russian presidency, the main topic of the G8 is the security of energy supply.
We have seized this opportunity for a thorough, honest and frank dialogue on energy matters.
The European Union has made it clear that Russia must be – as it indeed was and is – a reliable partner in the energy sphere, but we have, nonetheless, expressed our concern at the effects on the EU of the January gas dispute between Russia and Ukraine and emphatically pointed out that our relationship in this area must be founded on mutuality, not only as regards access to markets, but also as regards infrastructure and investments.
We also emphasised the significance, where competition is concerned, of the principles of transparency and openness, and strongly urged Russia to ratify the Energy Charter Treaty.
President Putin, by way of response to this, gave an assurance that Russia would continue to be a reliable energy supplier, while, at the same time, not excluding the possibility of Russia ratifying the Energy Charter Treaty in the long term.
Until that happened, though, he said that cooperation should be on a case-by-case basis, and pointed out that there was already substantial foreign investment in the Russian energy sector, to a considerably greater extent than in many other energy-producing countries.
He took the view that the mutual approach would make sense only if the European Union were itself prepared to allow Russia access to resources that it saw as being as significant for it as energy resources were to Russia.
It became evident that the European Union and Russia had decidedly different views as to the shape that future cooperation should take, but it should be noted on the positive side that the EU-Russia summit saw the subject being handled in a frank, positive and productive fashion, with both sides agreeing that the energy dialogue, having already been begun, should be continued with to a greater extent and in greater depth.
In particular, President Putin clarified his desire to build bridges despite the differences and work towards an agreement with the EU.
At the summit, both sides stressed their mutual dependency where energy was concerned and emphasised that the EU and Russia had to define their relations in this crucial area by mutual agreement.
The summit did, of course, include discussion of other issues.
One of these was the possibility of Russia joining the WTO.
Russia has decided to conclude negotiations before the end of this year in order to be able to join in 2007.
We reassured them of our support and reiterated our willingness to then draft a ‘free trade agreement plus’ with Russia within the framework of a future comprehensive treaty that would be intended to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement that is, albeit due to expire, already in place.
Russia reiterated its desire that the work on a new treaty of this kind between it and the EU should be brought forward with all speed.
It was agreed that this treaty should be as comprehensive and durable as possible in line with the needs and dynamics of the relations between us, and that, in order to avoid a vacuum, the existing agreement should continue to apply until such time as the new treaty entered into force.
We were particularly pleased that it was possible, at the summit, to sign visa facilitation and readmission agreements on the basis of the agreement reached at the end of the previous year under the UK’s presidency.
These agreements will make both business traffic and interpersonal contact considerably easier.
The European Union regards the conclusion of a readmission agreement with Russia as a major success and as being of great significance.
This agreement is also a demonstration of the productivity of the relations between the EU and Russia and of the real benefit that our people derive from them.
Further to it, we have again urged Russia to take steps to ensure that the border agreements with Estonia and Latvia can be ratified.
It goes without saying that human rights issues, too, were raised at this summit.
In discussing the situation in Chechnya, we welcomed the agreement with the Commission on the modalities for the implementation of a EUR 20 million programme in support of socio-economic recovery in the Northern Caucasus.
We also made reference to the consultations on human rights, the third round of which was held in Vienna in March, and which has become an essential element in relations between us.
Finally, I would also like to mention the fact that the deliberations also focused on international issues and, in particular, on the situation in Iran.
We also addressed the situation in Belarus and reiterated our willingness to work together with Russia towards a resolution of the so-called ‘frozen conflicts’ in Moldova and Georgia.
It finally proved possible, at the summit, to reach agreement on an Institute for European Studies in Moscow, to be funded jointly by the EU and Russia.
All things considered, this was a good summit with free and frank discussions in a friendly atmosphere, with both sides being willing, despite their differences, to build bridges and find solutions for the problems they both face.
