Mr President, market regulation and price support used to do quite a good job of protecting the agricultural sector from risks.
Agricultural reform has now turned much of that over to the market, and in principle that is quite right too.
However, farming is in a unique situation: even though farmers have to cope with climate change, livestock epidemics, natural disasters and global sectoral crises, much of which they cannot even predict, let alone plan for economically, they still need planning security.
More market thus also means a need for more private-sector involvement in the management of agricultural risks and crises.
The report provides some very positive proposals – an astonishing number coming from a Green rapporteur.
Despite some imbalances, it is a very welcome sight coming from that part of the political spectrum.
It is primarily producers, associations and private insurers who are called on to provide innovative risk management concepts throughout Europe.
The European Union and the State must take a back seat.
The public purse must be restricted to partial coverage for uninsurable risks such as natural disasters or massive livestock epidemics.
That is why we have to design reinsurance systems, and the European Union must also provide an aid framework that allows both private solutions and public coverage for extreme risks.
However, we must bear in mind that we cannot insure against every conceivable eventuality.
The world's climatic zones are shifting, and this has effects on the geography of farming that call, as a matter of urgency, for scientific investigation.
Europe has a duty to encourage this.
We will also end up having to look into resettlement measures.
These are regions that are being affected by ever worsening and more frequent droughts or floods, so that farming there is simply no longer worth it.
In this context we must also recognise the realities of additional risk insurance, and thus also provide aid for resettlement and structural change.
That, too, is a political responsibility of the European Union!
