.
Mr President, I would like to thank the Commission for its willingness to withdraw the first proposal and to take account in its second one of what was said in the debate in this House, as a consequence of which we have met each other halfway.
The same goes for the rapporteur, who was prepared – although he has since become rather less so – to work together with the major groups and the Commission in finding a rational way forward.
The report we now have before us is a sensible one, and it is one to which we can give our support, although we do not think that the amendments tabled by the Greens are worthy of it.
Taken as a whole Mr Seppänen’s draft report enjoys the support of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, but we will reject the substance of the amendments that were, contrary to our original agreement, resubmitted, and we do so on the basis of Articles 31 and 32 of the Euratom Treaty, which have to do with health and safety.
I would like to point out that this is not a codecision procedure, and that we are only to be consulted.
Account has been taken of new considerations, such as, for example, the extended scope for spent fuel rods, disposal and reprocessing or the automatic consent process for the transport of material within the Community and out of it.
We cannot agree to what the Greens have proposed.
Amendment 23, in particular, which envisages the requirement for the most extensive information in advance, cannot be seen as anything other than an incitement to widespread demonstrations, and Mrs Harms stressed that they would happen.
Having failed to get this sort of thing accepted once before, she has now taken it up again.
We would be dealing much more honestly with one another if we were to find common ground on the still open issue of final disposal rather than adopting hardened positions according to which one side of this House is right and the other is getting everything wrong.
I want to express my thanks to Mr Seppänen for his willingness to meet us halfway, and I believe that we can very largely agree to the report in its present form.
