.
Mr President, this is an enormous package that we have before us, and, in the course of the last few months, only a few points have been left over for us to consider, although they are very important ones.
The Council spent six years haggling over this compromise and, in doing so, evidently ignored the problems of the flying crew.
The consequence of that was that pilots’ flying times and the working conditions of cabin crew were open and controversial issues for our discussions in the committee.
I really do want to thank our rapporteur for the really very considerable amount of work he did to put this report on a good and sound footing.
It has to be said, though, that there was no discussion in the proposal of the problems posed by shift work and the fatigue – that is, the physical and mental effects of irregular working hours – which does, of course, have effects on safety.
The solution we have come up with, according to which a proposal has to be submitted within two years from now, is a compromise, and it would have been better if it could have been agreed on at once, but we should be glad to have achieved it at all, and glad that the Council has signed up to it.
It is now up to the Commission to do something positive by taking these factors – which are without doubt indispensable – into account and producing a new proposal.
While I am on the subject, let me say that I am not exactly happy with the exception made for personnel on freight flights, but I will agree to it for the sake of compromise, hoping as I do that the Commission will take a responsible approach to the analysis of working times.
One difficult point, of course, was the prohibition on regression, about which the Council was not willing to talk, and on which the Member States were unable to give way.
It is now up to them – and they will bear responsibility for this – as to whether working conditions, where they are better than what was proposed, improve, get worse, or remain unchanged, and whether, where bad working conditions still prevail, they can at last catch up.
