– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have had the pleasure of sitting in this House and following the progress of trade policy for twelve years, in the course of which I have seen three Commissioners deal with the subject, and I know how difficult it is.
This House has been there through every twist and turn of the negotiations; it has seen how difficult it is to conduct them on a multilateral basis, and how difficult it is, too, to understand what is meant by a modern trade policy and trade strategy.
Speaking personally, I am highly sceptical as to whether we have a right understanding of it even now.
I can go along with much of what you have said just now, and I am grateful to you for referring to the Commission’s new communication, which will be reaching us shortly.
Sometimes, though, I take a rather sceptical view of our own self-criticism and our understanding of the changes that have come about in the world.
On the one hand, it is certainly easy to criticise the Americans – and there is no shortage of reasons for doing it – but it is also important that it be mentioned that there is, in developing countries too – Brazil being one of them – and for reasons that Members have already addressed, scepticism about agreeing with the WTO.
Another factor may well be that China has become a global trading partner, with a greater impact on countries like Mexico, to name but one, than it has in the EU or the United States.
There are so many reasons, and I sometimes find it regrettable that the debate on a modern trade policy, to which you yourself refer in your own document, is not engaged in at the necessary depth.
What is also lacking is an understanding of the fact that the EU’s Member States have taken up very different positions as regards the challenges of globalisation.
Some of our countries are very open, because they can afford to be, while some, however, are in difficulties because they got around only very late to introducing reforms and transforming themselves.
This is evident from the textiles debate and from the anti-dumping debate with reference to shoes, and there are many other examples.
I quite simply do not see us actually thinking through what we mean by modern trade policy.
That involves – as I have mentioned – the part played by China.
Have we really understood what China’s accession to the WTO means?
If you are going to consider the possibility of Russia joining it there, Commissioner, then we urge you to discuss the matter with us; the lack of any debate about the effects and consequences of that is something I find regrettable, and, for that reason, I am in favour of having one.
It is something for which this House expressed its support as long ago as 2002, at the same time as it declared itself in favour of negotiations with Asia, and yet, as I see it, the debate with this House and with the responsible committee is lacking in depth.
I would like to see a debate about what our participation in the GATS+ negotiations forming part of the bilateral round might mean; here, too, you are right, but I do wish we could have a debate about it.
What I do think needs to be done if we are to talk in terms of a modern trade policy is for this House to be fully consulted, not just when we are called upon to agree to the outcomes of negotiations, but at the outset, when such negotiations are being considered.
The Commission, the Council, and this House, meeting in Stuttgart, have already negotiated a statement, and that involved this House being consulted either fully or to a considerable degree.
I would recommend to you that we do the same thing again, and hope that you can agree to this.
