.
Mr President, the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance quite clearly supports an independent, well-funded health programme.
Health heads the European public’s wish list, and we must give a very clear sign today that health policy is also a priority for us in the European Parliament, in the European Union, too.
Services and systems are of course organised at national level, but we must discuss the objectives of health policy internationally and jointly in Europe.
If a billion euros a year are spent subsidising tobacco, then health policy must be worth the same amount.
On the financing of NGOs, we in the Group of the Greens are quite clear that only NGOs that are independent of industry should be funded.
Sadly, we have a very large number of NGOs that are in the pay of the pharmaceutical industry and are its mouthpiece, their only purpose being to advertise over-expensive medicines.
That is not what we want.
We want to support NGOs that are independent.
And, Mr Krahmer, it is a contradiction to say they must not get state funding as well.
What else are they to get?
Are they really to be financed by the pharmaceutical industry and kept on a leash?
We do not want that!
Of course these NGOs also need funding to pay for their public relations work.
Support for complementary and alternative medicine is quite central for us.
I am pleased that there have already been positive experiences with it.
We have millions of people in the European Union who have had very positive experiences with complementary and alternative medicine, not forgetting environmental medicine.
It is therefore discriminatory of the European Union to pay no attention to this field of medicine, which does not yet have even a shadowy existence.
If the Commission is serious when it proclaims in Lisbon that we are an innovative society, then we must use the knowledge and innovation of alternative and complementary medicine, develop it and make it available to the people of the European Union.
That is really quite central and I think the Commission has staked far too much on the interests of the big pharmaceutical companies alone with its demand for blockbuster drugs.
That cannot be allowed to continue.
We must not go in for covert industrial and pharmaceutical research here, but our aim must be to really get innovation moving.
Complementary and alternative medicine must of course have its place there.
My final point is this.
We all again expressly ask that there really should be no discrimination, no genetic selection.
We would therefore like to press Mr Trakatellis once again to accept our amendment as an additional clause in which we quite clearly say: work in this field should only continue postnatally and only where therapies are also available.
