Mr President, I can virtually carry on where Mr Peterle left off, for if, as you, Mr Solana, have said, many in Europe are bidding us to take action, then the time for action really has come.
Let me give just two examples of what I mean.
I am not rejoicing in the sufferings of others when I say that the great American initiative for the wider Middle East has, in fact, collapsed, and that the intervention in Iraq has done nothing to improve matters.
The inadequate and hesitant support for the peace policy and the peace initiative in the Middle East helped Hamas to victory in the elections; I mention only in passing the fact that Fatah itself must bear much of the blame for this.
As for Iran, we all know that more involvement on the part of the USA in security policy would play an important part in persuading Iran to refrain from developing its own nuclear weapons.
Now, then, is the time, for the European Union – working with the USA rather than in opposition to it, which would be absurd – to clearly define what a comprehensive foreign policy in the Middle East might be like, including everything from a determined peace policy to support for civil society in the individual countries.
The second example is that of energy policy.
As has already been said, we, being a major consumer, need to present a more united front on the world market; we need to mobilise and form coalitions with other consumers.
We have seen precisely what happens – in Iran, for example – when we do not make common cause with them.
If Russia starts to make its energy policy an instrument of nationalist policy, then we must make our own – or at least part of it – more European.
Commissioner, we await the report with eager anticipation.
This is an issue that I asked you about as long ago as your appointment hearing.
It is of the utmost importance that we should now have this report in our hands and be able to say out loud that, while we need our national energy policies, they must be supplemented and extended by a strong European energy policy which is also an essential instrument of foreign policy.
