Mr President, let me just start with warm congratulations to the rapporteur on her report; I think she looks perfectly all right even without make-up.
There are at present 25 different systems of vehicle taxation in the EU, and putting them on a uniform footing will help the internal market work better; that much we know, and to those Members who would deny it, one has to say that it simply has to be admitted that the effect of this proposal is to do away with the distortions and inefficiency that result from double taxation when vehicles are transported across borders.
The registration taxes imposed in some Member States have – as we have heard often enough – the inevitable effect of making the public negotiate financial and administrative obstacles if they want to take a vehicle from one Member State to another.
Registration taxes are a sacred cow; let us then slaughter it once and for all – not least because of the environmental considerations and perhaps, indeed, with them particularly in mind.
After all, tax measures are one of the three pillars of the Community strategy for reducing the emission of CO2 from motor vehicles.
That is the right approach, but I do not believe that it goes far enough; it is not only the emission of CO2 that should be taxed, but the emission of pollutants generally, for – as we have been told often enough already – there are, alongside CO2, also nitrous oxides and, of course, particulates, emitted into the atmosphere, and so these elements should also be taxed.
I am quite convinced that abolishing registration tax will have beneficial effects on the environment, for a natural consequence of it will be the sale of new cars.
The object of reducing the costs involved in buying them is that the consumers will get rid of their old cars as soon as possible and replace them with new ones that save on fuel and pollute the environment less.
It follows that taxes on vehicles should, in general, be based on the pollutants emitted by them, and if the tax levied is to be fair and neutral in the field of competition, then the rates must relate directly to the pollutants emitted in each instance.
The tax burden per annum dependent on the emission of pollutants must increase in line with any increase in it.
