.
Mr President, taken together with Morocco, Mauritania constitutes an ancient culture, one that for centuries traded heavily with Europe and can boast highly-developed literature and traditions of well-organised trade, chivalry, large-scale agriculture and early forms of industry and craftsmanship.
It has always enjoyed a flourishing culture, much of which one can sense there even today.
This makes it all the worse that some of us Europeans should have completely forgotten this country.
I hope that we will now give more attention to Mauritania, and not just because of the refugee situation, difficult though that indeed is, or because of the discontinuation of the fisheries agreement.
I believe that this is a country that deserves our full support.
The referendum was a strong indication of a democratic trend in a country that is an important bridge between the Mediterranean and West Africa and has enough to contend with in the shape of natural disasters and challenges to be faced, in doing which it has developed an astoundingly innovative talent for agriculture.
I am also at one with those who argue that this country, with its natural reserves and maritime resources, is one that needs to be handled with great care, but that must not, contrariwise, mean that we want to plunder its waters of their treasures, on which the country is dependent, while also being dependent on the extraction of certain raw materials that occur there and constitute virtually its only source of income.
The policy we apply in this respect must, then, be a very careful one – one that will build up Mauritania’s abilities to help itself, enable it to emerge from the state of being an often grossly exploited country and return to it its proud and ancient tradition of independence in a new and democratic form.
This can be accomplished only if the powers of its President are limited, if the records of voters and residents are improved, and if truly democratic elections can be held with all Mauritania’s people participating in them on an equal footing.
