– Madam President, Commissioner, as we have already heard said today, Daphne is the most important programme aimed against violence, and so it is all the more important that it should be kept separate from the anti-drug programme.
Putting the two together in this way would certainly have resulted in even more misunderstandings and in incomprehension of what the European Union was up to, particularly among the persons affected by them, and I am glad that this is not going to happen.
This programme is a successful one, and must be continued, as visibly and comprehensibly as possible, as a response to increasing violence, and this separation is helpful to this end.
I am sure, too, that the doubling of its budget is not only encouraging but also necessary, constituting as it does a broadening of the range of goals and actions.
I would particularly like to highlight the campaign against people-trafficking, in particular against the trafficking of women and children, which calls for a high degree of vigilance and a great deal of work in view of the need for extended networks and for the financial resources required to that end.
I would like, then, to give my forthright support to Mrs Gröner’s proposal that cooperation projects to combat people-trafficking be extended to include third countries, since cooperation with countries of origin is vital.
Despite all this, Daphne is no more than a drop in the ocean.
It is particularly in the Member States that the campaign against violence must be continued with greater vigour, and must also be enshrined in law.
I would refer in this regard to the eviction law, which has been implemented for some considerable time in Austria, and also in many other countries, the effect of which is that those who commit acts of violence are required to leave the home.
I would also like to mention the anti-stalking law that is now in place in Austria, the object of which is to address the issue of psychological violence, something that is not yet taken seriously.
