Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I wish all the institutions the very best for the actions they need to adopt over the next few weeks or at the summit, which must be starting points for the future of Europe.
The motto for all the sittings in the coming weeks must, as Mr Barroso said, be ‘deeds not words’.
We call for actions that leave no doubt that we reject particularism, protectionism and the 'charity begins at home' mentality.
We call for courageous, concrete, verifiable European actions from the Member States for growth and jobs and for energy policy.
We call on the Member States finally to come into line on the Services Directive and the financial perspective and not to stand still any longer.
What do we want?
First, we want decisive actions, so that the European Union can continue to develop towards a political union with greater courage, credibility and decision.
A political union is our primary goal.
Secondly, we need to create a functioning internal market and take action so that it ultimately develops into a domestic market.
When will we be able to talk in terms of a domestic market for all?
When we waste as little time as possible in implementing the four freedoms for all citizens of an EU without borders.
Freedom and responsibility instead of chains, protectionism, nationalism and partitioning transitional rules – these things are our goal, and they will provide common added value for the citizens of Europe.
Thirdly, anybody who nationalises rather than Europeanises is throwing sand in people's eyes.
Where are the initiatives and projects to implement Plan D and to get the people involved in the European project?
Fourthly, I also call for codecision with the European Parliament on all internal-market related issues, on issues of growth and employment and on the financial perspective.
It is evident that the unanimity rule in the Council blocks progress, prevents or impedes European solutions and strengthens particularism.
That is not what we want.
Fifthly, we need specific European projects, not just national action plans: the creation of a European research framework, the creation of a European infrastructure, the creation of a European energy market, the creation of a European airspace, the creation of a European establishment and innovation offensive, the expansion of the European education programme.
For all of that, we want to see projects and actions, not just declarations.
Sixthly, we do not have a common economic policy, which means that we need to coordinate economic policies much more closely.
The EU is an opportunity.
Particularism and protectionism are our own home-made risk.
