. – Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I should like to declare our full support for the policy of the international community on Iran, as revealed in the resolution of the IAEA Board of Governors of 4 February, the position of the EU General Affairs Council of 30 January, and the statement issued by the EU-3 together with the USA, Russia and China in London.
In the government of my home country, too, Chancellor Merkel and Minister for Foreign Affairs Steinmeier are together resolutely following this course.
It must be made clear to Iran’s leaders that they cannot create divisions within the international community, nor – naturally – within the individual bodies of the EU.
Parliament’s resolution today will make that clear.
We recognise the fundamental right of all parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to use nuclear energy for peaceful, civil purposes; but Iran has crossed so many red lines that confidence in the regime’s honourable intentions has faded.
Neither its reduced cooperation with the IAEA, its President’s threat that Iran would leave the Non-Proliferation Treaty, its postponement of the talks with Russia that had been scheduled for this Thursday nor, in particular, its resumption of uranium enrichment, are conducive to building confidence and defusing the situation.
This makes it all the more important to continue to present a resolute, united front to Iran.
Anything that could now be conducive to giving Tehran the impression of division or compliance is unhelpful.
Those who believe that our unconditional desire for peace alone will induce our opposite numbers to change course and see the light are doing our natural yearning for peace a disservice.
Particularly when our counterparts are preaching hatred and hostility, and deliberately acting contrary to the expectations of the international community, we should not disclose to the other side everything that we might do as a consequence of their actions.
I do not believe that the scope for diplomatic efforts has yet been exhausted.
We are offering constructive cooperation.
We are calling on Iran to resume cooperation with the IAEA before the issue is discussed in the Security Council.
We also support Russia’s offer of uranium enrichment for civil purposes outside Iran.
We cannot help wondering why Iran wants its own enrichment facilities.
The country does not operate a single …
