. – Mr President, Mr Vice-President, I hope that the introduction of the single train system will be quicker and more punctual than the way we are going about things, for we are already – again – running twenty minutes behind time, and I am sure you will not mind if I go pretty soon, as I want to watch another match somewhere.
I do not need to repeat what the rapporteur had to say, since all the groups on the committee managed to achieve compromises on essential points, and I also share the view expressed by the Vice-President.
There are just two things I would like to point out.
The first – and it is for Mr Cramer’s benefit – is that we should not be talking in terms of percentages, for we have as yet no idea as to how much money is in the pot for ERTMS, and, moreover, we do not yet know which projects are actually ready to go ahead.
One project – the route from Rotterdam to Genoa – does admittedly appear to be ready apart from the last stretch into Genoa, but funding from the Member States for the other projects has not yet been secured, and so we should not be promising something that the Member States are unwilling to produce, for they, the network operators and the railways must contribute their shares.
All we can do is add a topping of money from the TEN budget; if the Member States stonewall, then nothing will happen.
Secondly, I hope that those Member States that can get money from the cohesion fund or the regional fund will use it for ERTMS, but, if they use it to build roads and then complain that the railways are not properly organised and too slow, then all I can say is that it is their own fault.
With this report, we have sent out the right message, and the Commission, too, is ready to do its bit, but it is now down to the Member States, to the network operators and the railway companies to make use of this co-funding.
If they fail to do so, then we will have moved a good idea forward while achieving nothing, and so let us all hope that the Member States may, perhaps tomorrow, read the reports of what we have been saying and decide, after all, to give this project proper support.
