.
Mr President, Mr Vice-President, first of all, I would like to use this opportunity to express to Mr Cramer my warmest thanks for his good cooperation, particularly in view of the technically very demanding and difficult nature of this report.
We have managed to guide the report to the vote with a great deal of speed and accuracy, and that augurs well for the future of Europe’s railways.
It is relatively clear just why this is such a pressing matter: as Mr Cramer has already mentioned, there are currently, in Europe, over 20 different signalling and speed monitoring systems, the cost of which is measured, firstly, in space on board, not to mention money, and also, of course, maximises to the utmost the possibilities for error and ultimately constitutes a safety problem.
There is, then, a massive obstacle to interoperability, one that certainly – as you, Mr Cramer, have said – makes the railway sector less competitive, particularly in view of the constant increase in traffic and the urgent need to move it from road to rail.
I hope that what we are hearing about the White Paper that is due to appear is no more than a rumour; the planned system is certainly needed.
We have been able to satisfy ourselves as to the system’s operability; everything that has been said about its perhaps not working or about its working badly or something of the sort, is nonsense.
It works in practice; it works on passenger trains.
That is why it is of the utmost importance that the Member States should, without delay, come up with a strategy for conversion to it and for the implementation of it.
I would like to avail myself of this, my last, opportunity to point out that, in my view, ERTMS will do more to secure the social position of workers in the rail sector, in which jobs will require better skills and high qualifications, and so the further training and qualification of workers in this sector must not be overlooked.
Let us make use of ERTMS as a great opportunity for rail transport, and let us do everything possible to move the transfer from road to rail forward in the future.
