. – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, by means of the report on fair trade and development, we, as Parliament, are reacting to the remarkable economic and political success story which is fair trade.
In recent years, growth rates in fair trade within Europe have risen, on average, by 20%, with the trend upwards.
In individual countries, we have market shares of up to 20%, as is the case with coffee in Great Britain.
This all serves to demonstrate the success of a civil society initiative under market conditions which, hitherto, has got by without significant state support and funding.
At the same time, this is also directly successful in combating poverty since fair prices guarantee a fair income.
It is also fairly crucial as regards social development in the southern states that producers in these countries receive a fair income.
At the same time, the entire matter demonstrates the high level of awareness on the part of European consumers and their interest in social responsibility in relation to trade internationally speaking as well as high product quality.
This topic also therefore concerns the protection of consumer interests.
Fair prices, fair working and production conditions, adherence to ecological standards; all of these things are of equal benefit to the quality of life of producers in the south and consumers in the north.
There was also broad agreement in the Committee on Development, something I am very pleased about.
At this point therefore, I would like to extend my express thanks to all my colleagues in the Committee on Development, the shadow rapporteurs, and the coordinators, for their constructive advice.
The report was adopted unanimously in committee.
This was preceded by intensive exchanges between the Fair Trade Movement and numerous associations on the problems of fair trade.
In committee, we jointly drew up and put forward criteria which have to be met by products designated ‘fair trade’ so as not to deceive consumers.
This report therefore calls on the Commission to present a recommendation relating to fair trade.
This involves the promotion of a political and economic concept and not, for instance, the promotion of a trade name, nor does it involve a legally binding, detailed regulation or a Fair Trade Act for the whole of Europe.
It is not, nor should it be, our intention to over regulate and, hence, possibly impede this successful, burgeoning market.
However, it does involve defining criteria which make up the substance of the concept of ‘fair trade’.
Key criteria that have been put forward to this end in the report include, , producer prices which guarantee their existence, informing consumers about the prices maintained by producers, that is, transparency, observance of the core conventions of the International Labour Organisation regarding health and safety at work and child labour in relation to production, the observance of environmental standards, supporting production and market access by producer organisations and monitoring compliance with these criteria.
It would be important for these points to be included in the Commission’s recommendation.
At this point, I would also expressly like to thank the Commission.
Especially in the Directorate General for Development and the Directorate General for Trade, openness to and, I might add, also a liking for this report, was clear to see.
We had highly constructive exchanges.
One more personal observation: Commissioner Mandelson, I know that you love chocolate and I have often seen how you prefer fair trade chocolate from Oxfam.
These are two predilections we both share.
I am therefore already aware through your consumer habits that you take an open view of this topic.
I would again like to make a particular appeal to you.
In the ‘aid for trade’ programme, which is now being discussed at the WTO, create an ‘aid for fair trade sector.’
If we were only able to use 10% of the funds in this area for the fair trade sector, that would provide enormous impetus for this fine concept.
Help us by giving preferential treatment to fair trade products in public invitations to tender, and breathe fresh life into Article 23 of the Cotonou Agreement, whereby fair trade in collaboration with ACP (Africa, Caribbean and Pacific) States is to be accorded important status and supported.
The European Union needs a well-coordinated fair trade policy.
Parliament will today, I hope, take an important step in this direction and it is then up to the Commission to take a further important step.
We need this recommendation, Commissioner Mandelson.
