– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, should like to start by thanking Mr Buzek.
He has the European patience – at which younger people can only wonder – to bring this work together.
I should like to return to the aspect brought up by Mr van Nistelrooij.
I think we have a big problem: in the Research Framework Programme, we have defined the European research area, and that presupposes the need for the accession countries to catch up.
However, we are all in agreement that, in the global context, a programme like the Research Framework Programme must focus on excellence, because it will represent the competitiveness that we need in order to keep up and to be able to afford to build up Europe.
The inclusion of the Structural Funds is therefore particularly important, and we will need to discuss it.
A second subject that has been brought up is SMEs.
In connection with this discussion, it is worth emphasising once again that 70% of all patents and utility patents in Europe are registered by small and medium-sized enterprises.
We must support that, and we must find a way of giving these businesses more support.
In this connection, we repeatedly come up against the problem of defining the term ‘small and medium-sized enterprises’.
In the dimension currently taken by the European economy, the definition of small and medium-size enterprises as set out by the European Union is simply wrong: it includes too few businesses.
Effectively, we are no longer supporting medium-sized industrial businesses – we are excluding them too much from the programmes.
A third aspect that I see as important is the new security research programme.
In this programme, we have implemented something that is really atypical for research.
I think we can all agree that it is one of the central projects for the future in Europe, not just against the background of terrorism, but also because it offers development opportunities in many areas.
We should therefore examine in the trialogue the Competitiveness Council's decision to make massive, if not the most massive, cuts in this area, of all places.
These cuts are extremely problematic.
