.
Mr President, Mrs Hübner, Mr Špidla, Mr Manninen, ladies and gentlemen, today, after months of negotiations and talks, the European Parliament will be adopting the regulations on cohesion policy.
I believe cohesion policy to be one of the most important, one of the most positive and, above all, one of the most visible of the European Union’s policies.
That means it presents us with an enormous challenge.
The disparities in individual countries have grown larger, and we European politicians have a great responsibility to the people as a result.
People are afraid of losing jobs, and they are afraid of globalisation.
If we are to make the most of the opportunities that globalisation offers Europe, however, we must help the weakest in the new and the old Member States.
At this point, I would also like to underline the social aspects of cohesion policy clearly once again.
We are not making cohesion policy for human capital, as the European jargon has it, but we are making policy for people.
That means we must put people at the centre and hence in fact greatly strengthen the social aspect.
We need well-qualified people.
People must have access to the ‘Lifelong Learning’ Programme.
They must be integrated, they must feel that we are there for them.
I think the European Parliament has been very successful in the negotiations.
As a result, there will be more participation in future.
As a result, Member States will not be treated differently.
Sustainability will be written large for us and not seen as a necessary evil.
The urban dimension has been strengthened, just as Parliament has significantly strengthened territorial cohesion, equality of opportunity and non-discrimination.
That means we can say with a clear conscience that the Lisbon Strategy is at the heart of our cohesion policy and the people of our Union really do have opportunities for the future.
In one thing, sadly, we have not succeeded: we failed to get the necessary resources we proposed; and we have not managed to get recycling, the reuse of unspent resources within cohesion policy.
We do still want to have something to do in the years ahead, however, and that is why we will continue to fight to get it.
Mr Manninen, as rapporteur for the strategic guidelines, I and my colleagues will do all that we can to see that we are able to keep to this ambitious timetable and adopt these policies in October.
