– Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer my congratulations to Mrs Grossetête for having achieved a consensus between all groups as well as with the Council and the Commission.
This is the culmination of a process which has, in my view, lasted six years.
Six years ago we discussed the problem and possible solutions with experts in Strasbourg for the first time, and now we are at the end of the legislative procedure.
I wish to thank the Commissioner and all those who have worked on this project, in particular however Mrs Roth-Behrendt, the shadow rapporteur of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, who contributed a great deal and who unfortunately cannot be here today.
I wish her a speedy recovery.
This proposal contributes to the solution of a serious problem.
I myself have worked as a doctor in a children’s clinic and I have found out what a drama it is for children, parents and doctors when many forms of medication necessary for the treatment of children are prohibited.
I myself have had problems, but not as many problems as other colleagues and other families.
In some of these families children have died, because medicinal products that lacked authorisation were not administered or because, for example, children suffering from HIV were given too weak a dosage, which caused the children to become resistant to the medication.
That is why it is so good that we now have this regulation.
I particularly welcome the fact that the Council and the Commission have taken up the proposal to impose the MICE programme on off-patent medicines.
At first reading I was not completely satisfied with the uniform period of six months.
Even so, it is vital to make a start, and if we see that the six months are not appropriate for all cases, then perhaps we shall have to make further amendments.
Now we just have to act quickly, and so I am very glad that Mrs Grossetête has persuaded the Council and the Commission to adopt Article 18.
For if we had not managed this, then the first medicines would only have come onto the market on the basis of the incentive system in 2009 at the earliest.
Now we shall be able to recognise positive effects immediately after the regulation is adopted, and that is important, because we have to act quickly in order to improve children’s health.
