.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Social-Democratic Group has taken on the task of drawing up Mrs Estrela’s own-initiative report and carrying out the mid-term review, and it has found that the gender dimension is being short-changed in the Lisbon Strategy.
The motto ‘equal pay for equal work’ has already been mentioned.
We have had that on paper for years, but it has not been put into practice.
The reality is an EU average of 15% to something over 30%.
Things cannot go on like that.
In business, women are largely absent from executive positions.
We even have good models outside the European Union – take Norway, for one.
In Norway, the government has passed a law requiring 40% of supervisory board members in quoted companies to be women.
Have the courage to take such initiatives, Commissioner, and make this part of the road map.
The demand for independence must not be left only on paper.
The social partners must be more active here.
I am getting sick and tired of always hearing that it is because of women’s qualifications.
As we have already heard, women are now better educated and there are far more women graduates than male graduates, but we have still not broken through the glass ceiling.
There must therefore be other reasons why women are not coming through, and I have to say there is a lack of political will here.
Again and again there has been much talk of good will here in this House and in the Commission.
So where is the snag?
Why is it that women – even in politics – are still not achieving the breakthrough?
Here Mrs Estrela’s report is helping to stir us up again and to ensure that the role of men changes.
Reconciling family and working life and gender mainstreaming are not matters for women alone.
I am therefore asking you to increase the pressure.
I am asking the Commission at long last to present the road map and not merely to describe the facts again but to be really courageous and move forward.
The new Gender Institute will be an important and courageous step.
It will enable us to demonstrate that Europe is taking equality seriously.
I am therefore asking you to translate words into action.
The Lisbon Model and the Lisbon Strategy can only be successful if women are fully integrated.
