Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I, too, should like to welcome you here, Chancellor, and wish you success and good fortune wherever you devote yourself to the common European cause.
Following on from a great and almost despairing speech from the Luxembourg President of the Council half a year ago and a great demagogic address from the British President-in-Office, you have presented us with a kind of lesson in European harmony today and have tried to coax a out of the magic political flute.
This , however, cannot obscure the reality that Europe is in crisis.
Its notes cannot drown out the bickering of governments and the constant hubbub of the nationalistic horse-trading bazaar, nor can it drown out Europe’s agonised wailing as governments make it a scapegoat whenever they need one – the very Europe that those governments themselves have created.
I listened with rapt attention and great respect when you talked about the people of Europe, for it has to be said that most governments deny the existence of a European people; it would have momentous implications for the constitutional issue if the people of Europe were taken seriously.
But, to come back to something my colleague Mr Cohn-Bendit mentioned, the magic flute cannot even be heard above the silence of governments – the silence of their suppressed delight at the collapse of a constitution that would have given Europe, the people of Europe, more rights but would have cost governments some of their power.
You are not to be seen in the front line when the time comes to break a lance for European democracy: silence on social issues, Chancellor, and lessons in harmony.
The European way of life is not in danger.
It is not your responsibility anyway.
It has many facets.
People create the European way of life themselves.
What is in danger, though, is the European social model, the social market economy.
Not a word did you say about that.
It is not for freedom that we need a magic flute.
But your cooperation in the CIA affair, in a monstrous assault on fundamental rights at the heart of this Europe, …
