.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that Mahmoud Abbas was unable to speak here is not tragic, but hard to tolerate politically, because this would have been a forum for presenting a perspective of the current situation in the Middle East.
Unilateral policies like the ones currently being pursued in that region lead to catastrophe, and by that I mean the unilateral policies of both sides.
Unilateral mutual contempt leads to a dehumanisation of action.
We can see this in practice in that region.
In principle, we in the European Union, the Council, the Commission and Mr Solana must insist on one thing: there must be no more unilateral politics.
Israel cannot decide on its own what the Palestinian state should look like.
That is not on, and the international community cannot tolerate it.
The Palestinians and their Hamas-led government cannot decide on their own how and when force may or may not be used against Israel.
Europe and the world cannot simply close their eyes to this.
If both sides believe that their legitimate position can give them a universally valid right to action, allowing them not to talk to each other and to hold each other in contempt, then the international community must put an end to it.
That also means that the decision of when and how Israel takes action in the Palestinian areas cannot lie purely in Israeli hands, even in the event of security problems.
Mr Schulz, it is perfectly clear: there are domestic elections.
Mr Olmert and the Kadima party said they would return settlements.
By so doing, they scored points with the left wing.
Now they want to score points with the right wing, and so they took this action.
Let us have no illusions: it was pure electioneering.
The worst aspect of this affair is that the future of this region is being sacrificed for an election.
I would therefore say to everyone here: we must not deceive ourselves.
The Israeli action was outrageous.
The prison in Jericho was no longer a prison.
That is also the truth.
They could hold a press conference with 500 journalists in there.
I would like to see a prison anywhere in the world – and I have been jailed a few times – where you could hold a press conference with 500 journalists.
Both were unilateral, unacceptable actions, and we must simply recognise that.
If you want to release someone from prison – which is quite possible – there are ways of doing so under the rule of law.
That is what the Palestinians, and Hamas, should have done.
However, Israel does not have the right to storm an institution just because something is not right.
Therefore, let us be honest: what we have to fight against is unilateral, arbitrary actions by both sides.
