– Madam President, Commissioner, I am glad that many of the proposals that we incorporated into my report have been adopted.
It is important that the general public should become aware of this debate.
If this is to happen, figures and statistics will be vital, and they need to be arrived at using common rules, not only within the European Union, but also in third countries, for we know that visitors will be coming from them.
These, then, should be included as well.
Much as I welcome the Commissioner’s intention to have a study produced on the effects of prostitution on the traffic in human beings, this should not consider only legal prostitution, but also the illegal variety.
Questions also have to be asked about the situation in countries in which prostitution is banned.
And what about the mobility of prostitutes’ clients?
Any study must also take account of that.
You have already explained what you intend to do by imposing a visa requirement for the World Cup.
I assume – and hope – that you want to tighten up controls on the grant of visas rather than to bring in a temporary visa, for then the question would arise of when one should begin and when it should expire.
The reason why we are taking the World Cup as an opportunity is because general public interest in it will enable us to make them aware of how this problem fits into it.
Forced prostitution, though, is also to be found going on at congresses, trade fairs, and even here in Strasbourg when this House is in session.
This is what makes the introduction of temporary visa requirements so problematic.
I would ask you to decide what your priorities at the April Council meeting in Brussels are going to be.
Austria will have to prepare itself to deal with this problem if it is going to host the European Championships in 2008.
That is why good suggestions are vital; we could all do with some.
Although you stressed the importance of Europol, what that means in plain language is that Europol must be given not only more staff but also more powers, or else the whole thing will not be workable.
There is much more to be said on this subject, but perhaps other Members will be the ones to say it.
