. – Mr President, we have had repeated occasion to discuss the situation in Darfur, albeit not for some time, even though things there have taken a lamentable and tragic turn for the worse.
Even in the few months that have passed since this year began, according to Mr Egeland, the UN Vice-Secretary-General with responsibility for Darfur, over 200 000 people have been driven from their homes and over 96 villages have been burned to the ground – and all this over a year since international action was taken with the intention of putting a stop to this sort of thing.
This goes to show how incredibly feeble the international community is where Darfur is concerned, and the fact that the UN’s Vice-Secretary-General was prevented from travelling into the crisis zone in the first place shows that the Khartoum regime is quite blatantly defying and cold-shouldering the international community and thereby making of it a laughing stock.
That is why it is past high time that we put a stop to our recurrent feeble protests; what is needed instead is for the United Nations, NATO, the USA, the European Union and the African Union to get together around one table in order, at last, to implement a concerted Darfur policy that amounts to more than paper resolutions.
What is called for, then, is a far more massive intervention there than has been seen hitherto.
It is, of course, the African Union, above all others, that needs to do something, but we ourselves cannot stand idly by while, quite openly, genocide is being committed – and that is how the United States has openly described it, even though they have not drawn the necessary conclusions from that.
What we are dealing with here is, quite simply, genocide.
We are currently mounting sad commemorative events to remember the beginning of the genocide in Rwanda and Burundi – and we averted our eyes from those, too.
Today, everyone says that we should have intervened then.
We find ourselves in a similar situation today.
We look away, we do not act, we do not use the means available to us – weak enough though they are – and instead content ourselves with verbal protests.
That makes Darfur not only a disgrace to the Sudanese regime, but also to the international and European institutions.
That is why I am very glad that we in this House are again returning to this issue.
To put it simply, it must be abundantly clear to us that normal or more or less normal relation with Sudan will be possible only if it for once does as it has promised and allows the international institutions to do their work there.
