. – Mr President, thank you for making it possible for my intervention to be delayed until now; my apologies to the presidency of the Council, and to the Commissioner, but I have come straight from a meeting of the Conference of Presidents with the President of Austria.
The situation in south-eastern Europe is a precarious one: negotiations have begun with Croatia; Macedonia is a candidate, although negotiations have not yet started, and Kosovo remains a problem.
That being so, it is indeed important that we should not close our eyes to the problems that remain in Bosnia and Herzegovina, or forget that they are there.
If we are to solve these problems, we can only do so together, and ‘together’ means the ethnic groups, the people, the political authorities in Bosnia and Herzegovina and the international community, represented in particular by the European Union.
As has already been said several times over, the existing constitutional – or rather institutional – framework is not up to the job.
Not only is it not up to the job of getting Bosnia and Herzegovina into the European Union, but it is also not up to the job of solving the present problems in the country itself, for spending some 50% of the country’s money on maintaining its institutions cannot be described as making any real contribution to its political and economic development.
Simply changing the institutional framework, though, is no use at all, of course.
We must also, and particularly, insist on cooperation with the International Criminal Court reaching its ultimate goal, which is that those who are responsible for war crimes or are suspected of committing them should end up being put on trial.
People cannot think about other important current problems until that is done.
One pressing problem is, of course, the overall state of the country’s economic development, with its lack of jobs and of investment, one of the consequences of which is that many young and educated people leave, so that its future elite, its future leaders, irrespective of their ethnic origin, are not there.
This makes it an absolute necessity that this cooperation by all the people of Bosnia and Herzegovina, irrespective of their ethnic origin, and involving the international community, should result in a new constitution and in institutional reform, so that ethnicity should be replaced as a criterion by the personal qualities and professional expertise of the persons who are to be elected to shoulder political responsibility.
