– Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a friend of my 20-year-old daughter recently told me, jumping for joy, that she had got herself a job as a hostess at the World Cup.
When I asked her how this had come about, she – a sporty lass – told me that she had got the job by applying to the German Sports Association.
In this instance, I am sure that this is a proper job offer, but imagine that you live in poverty and your daughter announces that she has the chance, this summer, to travel to Germany, where a super job is waiting for her.
Of course, as a mother or father, you rejoice at every opportunity your child gets, but who actually considers the risks involved or investigates whether the offer is genuine?
That is just one of the many possible ways in which these things can happen.
Providing information where people are is where we must start – the Commissioner has referred to the many surveys that have been conducted – but we must make people, whether parents or children, aware of the dangers inherent in every such questionable offer.
We know that there is a spectacular increase in the demand for sexual services during major events like this, and, of course, in the incidence of criminal activities such as people-trafficking and forced prostitution.
Only a very few women and children work without being in a brothel or managed by a pimp.
Thousands are brought here from Central and Eastern Europe, Africa, Asia and Latin America, attracted by false information and driven by poverty at home and by the need to feed their families.
They come here and are broken, and exploited, in the most brutal fashion, so that they end up losing their dignity and their self-respect.
Quite apart from providing information on the ground, there are things we have to do in the country in which the events are being held, things such as public relations work and a 24-hour multilingual telephone hotline – all these things are under consideration, and that is why we support these actions.
Now in particular, at a time when the World Cup is being played for, we need to show the red card.
Let us talk about how to do that.
