– Mr President, I should like to endorse what Mr Tajani said.
We certainly agree with him on the great importance of interreligious dialogue, especially between Christian religions and Islam.
It was for this very reason that we objected to the Pope’s statements.
Nevertheless, I appreciate both his apology for the statement in question and the initiative agreed yesterday with the ambassadors of Islamic countries to revive this dialogue.
It is for this reason, in particular, that it is so important to us that Turkey have the prospect of membership – have a path towards EU membership – as this is a means of lending support to this dialogue.
Turkey is also important to us as a strategic partner in the Middle East peace process, which can undoubtedly be promoted appropriately by means of Turkey’s path towards EU membership.
Nevertheless – and on this point I agree wholeheartedly with the rapporteur, Mr Eurlings, to whom I am obliged for his efforts – we must give criticism where criticism is due.
Years ago, I myself was a Parliament rapporteur.
I am delighted that the process has been continued, that we are negotiating with Turkey, that some changes have indeed been made in that country.
On the other hand, however, I am disappointed that Turkey has made insufficient progress on a good few issues.
One example is freedom of expression: although many authors are acquitted, the scandal is that they are prosecuted for their opinions in the first place.
That is unacceptable and must be prevented.
Regarding the Kurdish question, as has already been said, no one in this House has any sympathy for terrorism, and the PKK should declare its lasting support for the peace process once and for all.
The Government must do its part to promote peace, however – economically, socially and politically.
It must detach itself from those forces – the military and the security apparatus – that do not want peaceful dialogue – particularly with regard to the Kurdish question.
In this respect – even though there are a few more things we should like to change – the rapporteur has certainly been at pains to make it clear that we do want Turkey to take the path towards EU membership, but that is why we shall not dispense with our legitimate demands – including in Turkey’s interests – as the greatest beneficiary of the process of reform is not the EU, but Turkey itself.
