Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, security of energy supply has, over past weeks and months, been the big issue, and there are numerous things that we need if we are to address it.
I do believe, though, that we must make a big issue of heating with renewable energies too.
Why?
Their potential is particularly great.
The association for that industry in my own country, Germany – the one I know best – talks in terms of our being able, in the space of ten years, to increase the proportion of newly-installed plant running on renewable energies from 8 to 80%, that is to say ten-fold.
That involves a tenfold multiplication of the new installations rather than the share in energy use across the board.
It is not Greenpeace that is saying this, but an industrial association.
The use of renewable energies for heating purposes is also good value in comparison to other sources of energy, such as solar radiation or photovoltaic cells; prices can often differ by a ratio of 1 to 45.
We have, then given the least support where there was the greatest potential, and so something has to change in this respect.
I also believe that this is not just a national issue, but also a European one, for the reason why heating and cooling with renewable energies is not yet the order of the day has nothing to do with the generally complex technology.
What is needed instead is for the equipment to be produced in larger quantities in order to achieve a critical mass at which the equipment becomes better value for the end user.
It will of course be easier to reach this critical mass at European level than it would be if every country were to work for itself.
I do not think that endorsement of Mrs Rothe’s report in any way contradicts my support, and my party’s, for nuclear power.
I believe that both renewable energy and atomic energy are needed.
The false antithesis must be done away with; it must be removed from the Green Paper, too, and it is for that reason that I also endorse what has been said about that document.
What is needed, and as soon as possible, is a concrete proposal from the Commission, and I am obliged to Commissioner Piebalgs for announcing that one will be forthcoming in 2006; that means that umpteen billions spent by European consumers on imported energy can be saved and the money invested in something more constructive.
