Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, wish to start by giving my sincere thanks to our rapporteur, Mr Buzek, for his months of work and his efforts to arrive at workable compromises.
I wish to take up two points in this debate.
Firstly, I should like to speak about the European Research Council.
As has been mentioned several times already, the establishment of this Council is the novelty in the Seventh Research Framework Programme.
As the rapporteur for this Research Council, its success, which is also particularly dependent on its structure, is of course especially important to me.
We need this Research Council.
It will make Europe more attractive to top researchers.
It is intended to strengthen basic research, a field that has been too long neglected in Europe in recent years, even though this field, in particular, has seen pioneering developments.
I need only remind the House of inventions such as laser technology or X-rays or the MP3 player.
All of these discoveries were made through basic research, of which we need to make much greater, more targeted use.
Another important point with regard to the Research Council is that its work must be transparent.
The Research Council has been given substantial resources – we are talking about an annual budget of approximately EUR 1 billion – and, in view of this, I believe that we need to set up a body to ensure transparency.
The European Research Council must not be a closed shop.
I should like to make it clear that it is not my intention that this Research Council be under any control.
It goes without saying that it and its work must be independent, but its work must be comprehensible to the research community, politicians, decision-makers and the public alike.
My second point concerns the issue of what is to benefit from European funds; after all, the budget is relatively small.
That is why we must focus European research money on top-level research alone, and thus excellence should be the sole criterion for the selection of projects.
In conclusion, we must not permit any research on embryos.
We must not permit embryos to be produced for research.
I have drawn up a compromise amendment for this field – Amendment 319 – which I do not have time to explain, but I would ask my fellow Members to support this amendment.
