– Mr President, I welcome the change of perspective that is set out in Mr Brok’s report.
Our debates can no longer be about our preference for one country rather than another; instead, we must, at last, face up to the question as to what sort of political system the European Union can actually afford if it is to become better able to take decisions and act on them.
That is the fundamental issue on which all others depend.
It is for that reason that our next step must be to clarify terms that have not as yet been defined.
The Copenhagen criteria make reference to the concept of ‘assimilation capacity’, while not, however, defining it.
As I see it, it must involve at least the political and institutional arrangements set out in the Constitutional Treaty.
While I have listened attentively to what the Commissioner has said, he can correct me if I am wrong, but I have not heard him say anything about this.
Inherent in the decision as to what is a criterion of capacity to assimilate is the potential source of dissent between us and the Commission.
Among the important criteria are that the European Union should be funded in such a way as to have a viable future and its being accepted by the people who live in it.
If we are to talk in terms of credibility, that credibility, and the criteria that can properly be applied to capacity to assimilate, require that it should not be possible for another country to accede for the foreseeable future once Bulgaria and Romania have done so.
Credibility is about more than a promise to accept people at some unspecified time; it is also about specifying the conditions under which they can be accepted at all, and that means that we have to be more precise about such concepts as ‘enlargement perspective’ or ‘prospect of accession’.
We have to be very clear in our own minds that the belief that a country’s accession will resolve tensions and internal security problems is an erroneous one.
Such tensions and problems must be resolved before accession negotiations start.
