– Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, a long period of discussion is slowly coming to an end in the Committee on Foreign Affairs on these two countries, whose accession to the EU we have supported from the outset.
We should bear in mind that we had concerns about many accessions, yet all of them turned out to be political and economic successes.
They turned into a win-win situation.
There are also several transitional rules for the benefit of both sides, to enable accession to take place without great controversy from the point of view of the EU.
Examples are rules concerning the free movement of workers, and the fact that border controls on persons have not yet been lifted, since these countries are not yet members of Schengen.
Whilst welcoming the new States, however, we must make it clear that each enlargement only works if the rules are observed.
The Commission’s statement today that benchmarking and monitoring processes are in place to resolve the issues of legal systems, corruption, money laundering and organised crime, is very important.
We shall then have to wait and see whether, if the need arises, these are actually used.
The same goes for the legal conditions and controls for the Structural Funds and agricultural funds, and also for the opening of the foodstuffs markets.
The Commission bears a great deal of responsibility at this time, because only if this works and the Commission makes credible use of its mechanisms will the future of the EU be assured, and only then can we think about future enlargements, too.
It is extremely important that we welcome these countries, but also that both sides comply with the rules, so that we are not faced with serious problems at the end of the day as a result of failure to do so.
For this reason, I shall be monitoring very closely the way in which the Commission makes use of the possibilities it has mentioned today in practice.
The last thing I want to say is that the Constitutional Treaty was drawn up for the Union of 25, or rather of 27 following this enlargement to include countries that suffered so unspeakably under Communism.
It is not the size of the EU that will enable it to play a role in this world, however, but only its inner strength.
Size is not an indication of strength.
I should like to remind the House at this juncture, therefore, that the EU has not yet done its homework.
