– Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I do not know if the previous speech represented a personal opinion or the opinion of the committee responsible.
I should like to extend the warmest of thanks to Mr Eurlings for the very well-balanced report he has presented.
A good deal of the criticism expressed by one or other group today has been raised by members of the group for the first time in this report.
This, too, should not be forgotten, for example in connection with the issue of the media.
It is important to establish that the negotiations are under way and that both sides need to contribute constructively to these.
We agree that the prospect of EU membership should be extended to Turkey, but we need to make it clear – as the Commissioner also said – that the pace of the reform process has slowed since 3 October.
It is right and necessary to point this out, and to do so on the basis of a number of specific questions relating to human rights, minority rights and freedom of expression and religion.
It is also important to make it clear that these are the preconditions for progress.
Parliament stated in a decision at the start of negotiations that the political criteria should be met at the start of negotiations and not at the end.
A number of things about this debate are bothering me – this is almost a problem of mentality – for example, that it is not permitted to mention facts in case this is taken as a criticism or misinterpreted in Turkey.
Such negotiations cannot be conducted unless the facts are indeed mentioned.
Only then can we make progress.
After all, our job is to take our citizens with us on this path.
If the conditions are not met and the facts are not clearly stated, we have a problem.
Only those who meet all the criteria, including the political criteria and the preconditions for the negotiations, can join the EU.
This means that implementation of the Ankara Protocol must be set in motion once and for all, an endeavour that has failed up to now.
The Cyprus issue must be resolved this year, as stipulated, and cannot be postponed further, as to do so would mean no one taking us seriously any more.
Incidentally, it must also be stated that the EU’s capacity to cope with enlargement is of vital significance.
This also means that the financial perspectives under the negotiating mandate do not permit negotiations on the chapters with financial implications any earlier than 2013.
That, too, should be made clear, as these provisions in the negotiating mandate show that the EU currently lacks the capacity to cope with enlargement in view of its financial possibilities.
