– Mr President, in contrast to those who have brought in this motion, I have no fundamental objections to the Commission's decision, by which it has legalised a practice to which reference is made in, for example, the US-EU wine trade accord and in individual concessions accorded to third countries since 1984.
This motion has been drafted at the behest of the Italian Government, and it is for that reason that I wonder why it is that two Italian Members belonging to different groups have tabled it.
The Commission’s decision also benefits consumers, since the ‘barrique’ practice of maturing wine in wooden casks is traditional with white wine, but particularly so with red.
A wooden cask of this sort, made of oak and capable of containing 250 litres, costs between EUR 600 and EUR 800.
It can be used three times at most, so that red wine is at least a euro per litre more expensive if matured in a barrique than if wooden planks – to which there can be no objection on the grounds of consumer or health policy – are used.
It is in this way that this decision benefits consumers, who can buy high-quality wine at lower prices, and so my view of this is diametrically opposed to that of the motion’s authors.
To Mrs Batzeli, who said that the low-cost production of quality wines of this sort should not be allowed, I ask where we will end up if we in this House try to prohibit technological progress.
Of course this discussion needs to relate to the organisation of the wine market, but the fact that Italy asked for it put the Commission under pressure to act, and so I can give Commissioner Špidla my unreserved support.
From the consumer’s point of view, there is no problem.
We will have to give some thought to whether we should allow – ‘allow’, mark you, rather than ‘prescribe’ – positive labelling, in the sense that someone could, as an advertising tactic, use the description ‘matured in wooden barrels’.
That would deal with the competition problem.
It is in any case better to legalise this practice rather than, over a period of decades, to accept that many are doing it illegally, and so I think the approach we have opted for is the right one.
