– Mr President, I would like to start by extending warm thanks to the Commission for keeping so consistently to a clear line, and for the pressure it, together with this House, has brought to bear, to which pressure alone is attributable our success in getting major changes made in Romania and Bulgaria.
Having visited both countries, I do think that both governments and both parliaments have made significant changes in this respect, and it is this pressure that has induced them to make them.
I think it is simply human rather than something negative for us to give thought to in which areas we should, once the decision is taken – which, it is to be hoped, will favour 2007 – to some extent monitor and exert a certain amount of pressure.
It is the NGOs in both countries that are constantly recommending that we combine a decision in favour of 2007 with – where necessary – ongoing monitoring processes.
This would prevent any ‘second-class member’ situation arising, for monitoring of this sort has been done in the past; it is going on even now in some areas, and it is also necessary.
There is one other consideration I would like to add; you, Commissioner, have constantly taken a more critical line on Bulgaria, and have indeed done so just now.
Now it may be that the earlier negative assessment of Romania has put that country under greater pressure, but, having discussed this yesterday with the Romanian minister of justice, I would like to point out that neither the number of MPs whose parliamentary immunity is suspended nor the number of them who are charged can be taken as evidence of a country getting better or worse.
What I believe matters is substance, that proceedings should be embarked on where there is real reason to do so, and I do believe that Bulgaria, like Romania, is endeavouring to make charges stick and take hard-hitting action where corruption is to be found.
As we have seen from various peer reviews, too, opinions can differ as to which reform is the right one.
I agree with you that we have to ensure that the independence of the judiciary is guaranteed in both countries, while at the same time pressing the justice system to speed up proceedings, and I am in complete agreement with what Mr Schulz said: ‘We want it to be possible for both countries to accede in 2007, for that would be, for all of us, the greatest possible success.’
