Mr President, in answer to both these questions I can say that security of energy supplies, together with competitiveness and sustainability – they are, after all, the three relevant pillars – has for years been one of the main concerns of European energy policy.
This is also true of the new energy policy for Europe that is now being developed.
The gas dispute in particular, the price dispute of the last few weeks and months, has made clear that consideration must also be given to the concerns of our neighbours and international partners.
The European Union maintains close ties both with energy producers like Russia and OPEC and with important users like China and India.
In this connection, I would also like to remind you of international arrangements like the Energy Charter Treaty and the South East Europe Energy Community.
Diversification of energy sources, the promotion of domestic energy sources, renewables in particular, and energy efficiency are important aspects of the security of energy supply.
The great importance of investment in both infrastructure and exploration should also be stressed.
Transeuropean energy networks are also part of both these aspects.
A host of instruments have therefore been adopted in the European Union in different fields.
On security of supply, particular mention should be made of EC Council Directive 2004/67 of 26 April 2004 concerning measures to safeguard security of natural gas supply, on diversification of energy sources the directive from 2001 on the promotion of electricity produced from renewable energy sources, which aims to see 22% of the Community’s electricity generated from renewable sources by 2010, and the 2003 directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels or other renewable fuels for transport.
I should also mention the December 2005 proposal for a directive of the European Parliament and the Council on energy end-use efficiency and energy services, which is expected to be adopted in the next few months.
Neither should we forget the Sixth Research and Development Framework Programme and in particular the ‘Intelligent Energy for Europe’ Programme, which seeks, among other things, to promote new and renewable energy sources at local and regional level and in developing countries.
The Council is also showing the importance it attaches to renewable energy sources in the non-legislative domain.
In their contribution to the Spring European Council in March 2005, the energy ministers support giving priority to a strategy for renewable energy sources beyond the year 2010.
Energy policy and the security of energy supplies in particular will also appear on the agenda – no doubt prominently – for the Council’s next meeting in the spring.
Two further areas on which the Presidency will be focusing are the Biomass Action Plan and the proposed Energy Efficiency Action Plan.
In its contribution to the international action plan of the June 2004 International Conference for Renewable Energies in Bonn, the Council noted that EU energy policy should aim to increase the use of renewable energy sources significantly and that increased use of renewable energy, improved energy efficiency and sustainable energy use will also contribute to security of supply as complementary areas of policy.
At its meeting on 29 November 2004, the Council adopted conclusions on renewable energies which highlighted the importance of making renewable energies more competitive by reducing production costs, among other things.
All these instruments and measures are a solid basis for the short, medium and long-term security of energy supplies in the European Union, which have also proved their worth in actions of solidarity in connection with the consequences of the disastrous weather events of last year.
