. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, two points of view are always wrestled with as regards the topic of migration.
On the one hand, the libertarian perspective, which focuses on human rights and the Millennium Development Goals; on the other, the point of view adopted by Interior Ministers, who instead view an external threat, predominates.
In view of the growing and current dramas associated with migration, the EU debate is dominated, unfortunately, by Commissioner Frattini and the Ministers for the Interior.
Border protection facilities and intervention teams form part of this picture.
Yet your very fine report, Mrs Carlotti, analyses the causes and status of migration in the 21st century in much greater depth and also proposes a whole raft of very sensible measures which I am unable to reflect on here in the two minutes I have available, however.
Your call for controlled migration should not mean though that in future, for instance, the EU turns Lampedusa into Ellis Island or perhaps something even more terrible, namely that there are combined EU refugee and recruitment camps in the Libyan desert and which also therefore operate outside EU legal standards.
Naturally, I also regret the lack of proposals for resolving the situation of migrants who live outside official legal status in the EU.
The crux of the entire migration policy remains the growing economic and social disparity between the European Union and those regions of Africa that are becoming impoverished, and the EU is itself contributing to this impoverishment with its aim of competing for leadership in the global economy.
Please take the fair trade report to be debated here later in Parliament seriously if you wish to reduce migration out of economic necessity.
Combat the contribution Europe is making to the migration of war refugees through its arms exports and reduce the emissions output of Europe and its trading partners if your desire is to reduce migration which is primarily the result of climate change and the spread of deserts.
