. – () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
You, Commissioner, have told us many things and listed them for us, and we could actually even say that we have already achieved a great deal to address the concerns discussed and presented here.
It was on 17 January 2006 that we adopted Mrs Prets’ report on ‘Strategies to prevent the trafficking of women and children who are vulnerable to sexual exploitation’; in March 2006 we adopted an oral question with a resolution on forced prostitution during international sporting events, and furthermore, on 8 March of this year, we organised the ‘red card to forced prostitution’ campaign in this House.
However, we still just keep on going.
All these projects contain very practical proposals for combating forced prostitution.
At the moment the football World Cup is taking place in Germany.
We know that during such events there is a spectacular increase in the demand for sexual services, and that before and during them there is an increase in the incidence of criminal activities such as human trafficking and forced prostitution.
As early as March I asked, in this House, that, on the one hand, information be provided on the ground, in the countries from which most women are taken, with, on the other, in the country in which the event takes place, good information and public relations work, raising awareness among potential clients, a 24-hour multilingual telephone hotline and the guarantee that those who call it will subsequently be offered care and support by the police, emergency services and women’s refuges.
While, on the one hand, the football World Cup has now begun, there was also an ice hockey World Cup – perhaps a slightly smaller event, but certainly with the same problems.
Today we need to ask – and I want to thank Mrs Záborská for having formulated this question for us – in what ways this offer is being accepted.
That is what we now have to focus on.
The World Cup is now on, and the free telephone hotline - after initial teething problems – will now be in place until 31 July.
However, we must draw conclusions from these projects that can be applied to future big events.
We have to learn from any problems and find the right approach.
I want to ask all of us and you too, Commissioner, to make this happen.
