. – Madam President, I want to put before the House the Committee’s resolution rather than my own opinion, although the two overlap to a large degree.
The committee adopted, and by a large majority, a total of 18 points, the essence of which has been incorporated into the Rapkay report, and so we have been able to adopt this resolution by a large majority, having been able to adopt a joint strategy on the basis of what this House has resolved on previous occasions.
I am very glad indeed that the President of the Commission is able to be here with us, but I am very far from happy at the prospect of yet another new communication towards the end of the years, for, from the year 2000 onwards, we have covered a circuitous route from one communication to another, from interpretation to summit document, without the clarification of the legal uncertainties that we needed being forthcoming.
The Commission really must overcome the competition Commissioner’s antipathy – and yes, I know that will be quite a feat – and sort out once and for all a number of things that will otherwise have to be left to the European Court of Justice.
That does not mean that we favour a framework directive, and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy has said as much, for there is no legal basis for one, not even in the draft constitution.
While it is self-evident that we want to see codecision in as many areas as possible, it is not right that we should adopt resolutions that go beyond our remit.
We have laid down several principles that are in line with what the President of the Commission has said today, and, while the subsidiarity principle means that every level must take decisions for itself, they must also abide by the rules of competition, with subsidies being transparent and the Commission having a watching brief to look out for abuses.
Within those limits, we can, today, on the basis of the Rapkay report, adopt a good position with advice to the Commission as to how it should proceed.
Now, all that is needed is for the Commission to act.
