– Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad to have an opportunity to speak after the rapporteur’s concluding remark.
I believe that the debate we are having today is an important one, because China – and this not just a throwaway remark – is a great country with a great culture, one which can play an important role in the future if everything happens as it is expected to.
Even so, the rules must be observed.
We want this constructive strategic relationship and partnership with China.
However, if a country wishes to join the WTO, then it must respect intellectual property, it must address the rules on dumping, it must ask what the labour of prisoners in prison camps means, what competition on an equal footing means, it must cooperate in Doha, it must maintain an appropriate currency policy, and it can achieve a trade surplus through its own achievement, but not by ignoring the rules.
It is also important that such a country plays a part in solving political crises, as China is indeed doing to a certain extent in connection with Iran, however at the same time it is buying energy everywhere, for example in Darfur.
The question arises: is this how the responsibility of a future superpower is to be envisaged?
It is vital that this responsibility should be linked to human rights.
China has experienced intensive economic development, but it must produce evidence of the large-scale liberalisation not only of the economy, but also of the political system.
If it does not do so, then there could be a big rupture which might undermine its economic development.
So far China has offered no such evidence.
I will defend the One China policy, but only if it is based on the free decision of all interested parties, and this cannot be achieved through violence.
Last year’s Chinese legislation on the subject is unacceptable, and, for as long as it remains so and threats continue to be made, then the arms embargo cannot be lifted.
We want relations with this great country, with China, but I think that in doing so we must also respect the common rules of international humanitarian law, and that this is the only basis for stable progress.
