.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as President of the Council, I would like to thank you warmly for this overwhelming vote.
If you think back, it was a year ago that the great crisis occurred, with the failure of a financial proposal from the Luxembourg Presidency – a proposal, I might add, that was not all that far removed from the one we have adopted today, and so I would like to take this opportunity to say a very big thank you to Jean-Claude Juncker, who deserved to see this day in his presidency.
It is as partners that we have resolved this crisis.
Parliament has not merely bared its teeth, but has put forward simple and practical ideas and suggestions.
All in all, we now, with the new Financial Perspective, have, for the period of seven years, some 70% more money for the competition goals as per the Lisbon agenda, but we also, and in particular, have 60% more for small and medium-sized enterprises, while, moreover, hundreds of thousands more students than over the past seven years can avail themselves of the Erasmus programme.
I am particularly glad that we have made provision for the costs of enlargement.
Over the next seven years, we will, in total, be making EUR 160 billion available, and that includes to Bulgaria and Romania; in terms of monetary value, that is twice as much as the post-war Marshall Plan for the whole of Europe.
Proud though your House can be of this resolution, it might well be that the accession costs of the ten Member States ought to have been included at the same time, and then we would have had an easier time of it with this Financial Perspective.
This should be a lesson to us to do this better in future.
Our original intention was to sort out practical projects in order to restore public confidence in us.
This Financial Perspective is the same sort of practical project as the infrastructure costs directive, the European driving licence and the joint resolution to desist from using the Structural Funds to promote the relocation of workplaces or jobs to new Member States.
This, too, is a most significant step forward.
We will continue down this road in the remaining weeks that are left to the Austrian Presidency.
I hope that you will be cooperative and rely on your being so.
We will meet again in June, when we will be discussing the future of Europe.
I wish you all the best, and thank you from the bottom of my heart.
