. – Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have travelled a long road, with many ground-breaking discussions along the way, and today we are meeting for the finale, so to speak.
There are only a few of us left now, this being the third reading.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Sjöstedt – our ‘pacesetter’ – who, with expert knowledge and a great deal of energy, managed to maintain the momentum of the negotiations all the way to the Conciliation Committee.
Mr Sjöstedt succeeded in never losing sight of the goal, whilst clearly recognising when the time had come for closure and ultimately also for final compromises.
I am much obliged to him for this.
The directive on the management of waste from the extractive industries is, therefore, a success for the environment, for enterprises in the mining industry, and thus also for human beings.
Environmentally sustainable activity does not just consist in doing nothing and making unspoilt nature the measure of all things, so to speak.
Instead, we human beings have been set the – even biblical – task of subduing the earth.
Europe is not characterised by primeval forest and unspoilt landscapes, but rather is known worldwide for its cultivated landscapes, developed over centuries.
These should be used by people for people according to the principle of sustainability.
Yet all intervention in nature also has concomitant effects; it would not be correct to say that mining has no impact on nature and the environment.
Therefore, when assessing all intervention, return must be weighed up against expenditure, benefit against burden.
As a result of the positive developments, technical possibilities and heightened environmental sensitivity of today, the yardsticks we use now are different from those we used just 50 years ago.
We must put these achievements to good use in the interests of human safety and of preserving the health of our environment.
We must also continue to stay on the ball at all times so that we can make use of the new possibilities that will undoubtedly present themselves in 5, 10 or even 20 years’ time.
It was the serious accidents in the metal ore mining sector in Spain and Romania in the last 10 years that induced Parliament to call for this directive.
Now that we have it, I think that we are on the right track towards achieving something positive for the environment and for human beings.
