– Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to make three brief comments.
First, I do wonder, when we hold our debates here in Strasbourg, whether we should really be setting up the Fundamental Rights Agency in Vienna in competition to the Council of Europe, a tried and tested instrument that is able to take on this task not only for the EU Member States but far beyond our borders.
I can really only encourage you, as I have also said to Chancellor Schüssel in a debate, to make an active contribution to treating the European disease of 'agencyitis' effectively.
You could also send out a clear signal from your own country in that connection.
Secondly – and in this I almost completely agree with what Mr Rasmussen said before me – we obviously also need to defend our own values in the context of the enlargement negotiations.
I am rather worried that we are falling back into the mechanical behaviour that we have been experiencing here for the past 10 years and that we have criticised time and again in this forum.
Was it really necessary to negotiate a chapter with Turkey on Monday, despite the fact that some of the minimum conditions, specifically recognition of the Ankara Protocol, have not even been dealt with yet?
I wonder whether we are perhaps once again sending out the wrong signals by setting in motion a train that, 10, 12 or however many years down the track, we will still not be able to stop.
The Austrian Presidency of the Council could have sent out a clearer signal in this regard, too.
Thirdly, the European Union is founded on the Member States.
There is no single European people – and this goes for Mrs Wallström, too, who is now not listening – but 25 national peoples, as we are seeing at the moment with the football.
And we have a European Union that is founded on the Member States and not on a majority of the population expressing their opinions in referendums.
That really does need to be taken into account, otherwise this project will ultimately founder.
