– Mr President, It is indeed the case that the enterprises involved in restructuring always talk in terms of being pressured into it by something they compare to a force of nature suddenly overwhelming them, but I do not believe that they are right to do so.
Restructuring and modernisation are things that enterprises are constantly obliged to do; indeed, they are a matter of social duty in respect of their workers.
They are responsible for the continuing development of their skills, and this is where I agree with the rapporteur: workers are entitled to training, whether basic, advanced, or in-service.
It is of course possible for vocational development and the training of professionals to be undertaken by publicly-funded bodies, but it would be outrageous for businesses to take the line that this was actually an obligation incumbent on the public sector, and that it had to take over responsibility for it.
I concede that such restructuring or even relocations result in a great deal of unemployment in some regions, but I would remind those caught up in such situations of such instruments as the territorial pacts for employment that we – that is, this House together with the Commission – have put together.
Studies testify to the fact that what made them really outstanding was that they involved all the local stakeholders.
They are efficient; they were supported by European structural funds, and they were successful.
It really does amaze me that the Commission is more reticent about its support for these territorial employment pacts and no longer has recourse to these options in the way it once did.
Let me just say something about the Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
Our group, too, is in favour of such a fund, but participation in it must be restricted to those enterprises that actually do take upon themselves the social responsibility for ongoing training and development rather than passing it on to somebody else.
That is the only way of preventing this fund being a merely token gesture.
It is for that reason that the involvement of the public sector must be conditional on participation by all the stakeholders, including the enterprises, in social planning.
