. – Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Committee on Foreign Affairs have considered these questions, and there are two main points I would like to put before you.
One is that it is of the utmost importance that funds should be made available for the European Union’s peacekeeping operations in the Balkans and also in many other countries around the world.
There is now the prospect of an operation in the Congo.
That the funding has been topped up is something to be welcomed, but we would prefer it not to be divided up.
The civilian component will be funded from the European Union’s budget, and the rest provided by the Member States from their current income.
This results in shadow budgets that are ever more difficult to monitor as a consequence of their no longer being subject to the full scrutiny of the national parliaments, or, indeed of the European Parliament either.
This must surely be counted as a deficit.
I might add that it is also of paramount importance that we have discovered deficits in these overseas operations, specifically in connection with reconnaissance and telecommunications.
If we are to send troops on difficult missions, it is very important that it should first be ascertained what is going on on the ground, and for that we need satellite-based reconnaissance systems.
It is irresponsible to deploy troops with five or six different types of communications apparatus, which often work together only with difficulty or are not mutually compatible at all.
That is why we in the European Union need a single satellite reconnaissance system and common standards for telecommunications in this sphere.
Another reason why that is particularly important is that it is the very same deficits that are to be found among the police and in disaster prevention and management centres.
Let us imagine Europe being struck by a tsunami.
In that event, it will, in the first place be of the utmost importance to be able to see what is happening, but also, and secondly, that those managing the disaster, the police and the armed forces, be enabled to communicate with one another without difficulty.
This is another important task for the budget of the European Union.
