Mr President, I, too, wish to start by thanking Mr Buzek for his excellent work, and also the shadow rapporteurs, particularly Mr Busquin, who has brought a great deal of know-how and experience to bear.
As regards the question of priorities, health policy and health research undoubtedly fall into this category.
I disagree with Mr Liese here, as stem cell research, including embryonic stem cell research, is also potentially important as regards health, particularly in the fields in which adult stem cell research is not yet able to offer anything of equivalent value.
I therefore consider this course of action to be of benefit, and it has my full support.
A second field that has also been given higher priority, particularly by Parliament, is that of energy.
We all know how important it is to make progress in the energy field, and I would emphasise once more how important it is for the large energy companies, whose large profits are chiefly a result of increases in oil and gas prices, to invest more in research.
I hope that the Commissioner also ensures that more such private resources are brought in.
It is important that the EU’s contribution to the field of energy, in particular, be made within the framework of the Research Framework Programme, or of nuclear research.
The issue of nuclear research is very controversial, of course, as the issue of nuclear energy itself is controversial.
If, however, there is one important field to which we must give absolute priority, it is the field of safety and security: safety with regard to plants, and security in the sense of creating all the technical and other possibilities for preventing proliferation for non-civil purposes – military or even terrorist.
I would ask the Commissioner to take this very seriously, and to do more in this field, in particular.
Mr Buzek has taken up some of my proposals – he could have taken up more – opinions differ on this – but I believe that absolute priority must be given to safety and security in the field of nuclear and energy research.
