.
As was firmly reiterated in the Council’s annual presentation to the March 2005 Spring Summit, the Council is prioritising, among other things, the practical ways in which the European Community applies environmental law and the requirement for further improvements in European policymaking with balanced consideration of the economic, social and environmental factors involved.
The EU-Mediterranean ministerial conferences regularly consider the complex issues around the environmental sustainability of the Mediterranean area, and – as part of the implementation of the outcomes of the two EU-Mediterranean ministerial conferences on environmental issues held in Helsinki in November 1997 and in Athens in July 2002 – efforts are being focussed on the laying down of a strategic framework and the promotion of a common approach and joint initiatives towards improving institutional and technical capacities in the region.
The primary intention in doing this is that greater attention be given to synergies with other programmes than has been the case in the past.
The Seventh Foreign Affairs Ministers’ Conference on 30 and 31 May 2005 in Luxembourg once again confirmed the Commission’s initiative to remove pollution from the Mediterranean by 2020, the object of which initiative was to address all sources of pollution including industrial emissions, municipal waste and urban waste water, in order to improve the development prospects for tourism, increase the fisheries stocks, and make safe drinking water available to millions of members of the public in these regions, and the Mediterranean partners were to be supported in this by the provision of appropriate funding.
The objectives I have enumerated were confirmed at the EU-Mediterranean Summit in Barcelona.
Demands were also made for the drawing up of a timetable for the removal of pollution from the Mediterranean by 2020, and for consideration to be given to comparable experiences with sustainable development already gained from the Baltic, Mediterranean and Black Sea regions.
Five action plans have been negotiated and formally adopted under the European Neighbourhood Policy, these being with Israel, Jordan, Morocco, Tunisia and the Palestinian Authority.
Negotiations on similar plans are underway with Egypt and the Lebanon, with a particular and urgent interest in environmental protection and the supply of water, but also in the disposal of waste water and the EU’s experience with environmental impact assessments and the work of the European Environment Agency.
It has, in any case, been our intention that deeper bilateral cooperation should include the implementation of multilateral environment agreements on the protection of the Mediterranean.
