– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not need to repeat what has just been said about the situation in Darfur in all its frightful cruelty.
What I do want to say right now is that I am less than convinced by what has been said by the presidency, the Minister, or, indeed, by Commissioner Frattini.
For as long as those responsible within the European Union – by which I mean you, you in the Council and the Presidency – cannot even realise that what is going on at this very moment is genocide, and while you only talk about how we are going to play our part in reconstruction once peace is established, and so on and so forth, I wonder why you do not call this by its name, for what matters most of all is that this genocide – which is what is going on here – should be brought to a halt, and once that is done we can get on with the rebuilding work.
There is a need for clarity, not least within the European Union, the dilemma in the Security Council is that China and Russia are preventing anything being done.
It is clear, then, that the right of veto in the Security Council must be abolished.
No country on earth must be allowed to use a veto to allow genocide to continue.
Secondly – and this is something we Europeans can do – we have to spell out the fact that, under such tragic circumstances, the so-called sovereignty of the Sudanese state is very definitely negotiable.
It is human security, the protection of human life, that is the ultimate good, rather than the alleged sovereignty of an undemocratic, brutal and failing state.
Let us just recall the debates we had about sending troops to the Congo and then to the Lebanon – this time we are talking about 22 000 soldiers.
We cannot respond to the news that there will be an extension until December by saying ‘hooray’ and hoping that by then 22 000 soldiers will have been found for a UN force; that will not work.
It would mean that we would, until December, remain passive spectators of genocide and would only then get around to grappling with the issue, without having already done anything about it.
Europe cannot adopt such a policy!
