– Mr President, I would say to the President-in-Office of the Council that, at the end of the Austrian Council Presidency, his country’s government has another chance to rescue the Council from its helplessness, as his country’s Presidency has produced very mixed results so far.
I very much welcome the initiative for greater transparency in the decision-making process.
As Mr Watson said, the Presidency really has passionate supporters of this in the shape of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
On the other hand, the irony of the story, in a way, is that 2006, in particular – the European Year of Workers’ Mobility – has seen the adoption of a Services Directive that hinders that very mobility.
As regards the Treaty establishing a Constitution for Europe, however, the Council must understand that this Treaty has failed in its present form.
If we are really serious about the ubiquitous profession that the focus of European policy must be on the citizen, we cannot simply ignore the ‘no’ in France and the Netherlands, nor can we ignore the fact that other Member States have already announced that they will not be ratifying this Constitutional Treaty.
Europe needs a constitution – that much is perfectly clear – and the substance of this Constitutional Treaty is good, but specific proposals must be made for what can be changed.
In this context, I was very pleased to read an interview with the boss of the President-in-Office, Wolfgang Schüssel, in the German newspaper – for two reasons.
Firstly, he said that he supports Germany in the World Cup.
I think that is excellent – now we are sure to win.
Secondly, however, he took up the proposal to hold a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty on the same day in all the Member States of the EU.
I think that is excellent, as such a step would really bring citizens and European institutions closer together.
In addition, it would really be a historic event: a constitution that citizens had awarded themselves – that would really be an important Treaty.
The President-in-Office said, in all modesty, that there were no epoch-making decisions on the Council’s agenda.
Yet if he succeeds in putting the idea of a referendum on the Constitutional Treaty on the same day throughout Europe in front of the other Heads of State or Government and in winning support for it among them, he will be able to say, in all modesty, that he has produced epoch-making decisions.
I wish him every success in this.
