.
Mr President, I would like to express my deepest thanks to Mrs Carlotti for her fine report which has my full support.
The phenomenon that is migration is as old as mankind itself.
Since time immemorial, we have been searching for a place to call home, along with security and peace.
Certain individuals leave their homeland voluntarily but most men, women and children flee from violence, hunger, poverty and persecution.
Poverty is an overwhelming driving force.
We can build walls around Europe but these will not stop people who are seeking a better life far from home.
According to the United Nations, there are approximately 191 million migrants worldwide.
Half of these are women.
Female migrants and refugees live with the enormous risk of becoming the victims of sexual exploitation and violence.
The correlations between migration and the slave trade in this regard must, above all, be examined from a gender perspective.
When calling for a guarantee fund for microprojects involving migrants, gender-specific projects must receive special attention.
I ask myself how we can be proud of a European Union where women who have fled their homelands on account of poverty and violence become the victims of discrimination and exploitation.
Migrants make an enormous contribution to the development of their homelands.
Every year, EUR 150 billion are transferred via banks.
This is three times the development aid offered worldwide.
On top of this, a further EUR 300 billion is received through other channels.
In this regard, I am particularly calling for more transparency and aid as regards financial transfers to the countries of origin.
In September, for the first time, the UN would like to deal with the theme of migration and development in the context of a high level dialogue.
Through its delegation, the European Parliament should demonstrate that this silent human rights crisis, as Mr Kofi Annan termed it, puts us to shame and that we want to stand up for a more just situation for migrants and refugees.
