.
Mr President, Commissioner, I speak for the Socialist Group in this House when I say that we are grateful to Mrs Prets and all the members of the Committee on Women’s Rights for their collaboration on this report.
We have tabled many proposals as to how the battle against trafficking in women may be waged.
We are alongside you one hundred per cent, Commissioner Frattini, if you take decisive action against this modern scourge.
We have to drain this swamp and take action, and, with the action plan and with the help and cooperation of other bodies such as the Council of Europe, the OSCE, and the United Nations, we will be able to do just that.
There are plenty of proposals in the report that we can take up, and they need to be implemented now.
Funding needs to be made available; Europol must be equipped with powers to act; a police task force needs to be set up: all these things can help.
During the December part-session, half of the Members in this House supported the establishment of helplines for children.
We want the Daphne programme to carry on being an effective instrument, but as something separate from the prevention of drug use.
That is another issue, and every bit as important, but it needs to be dealt with separately.
Where this is concerned, Commissioner, you have our backing.
None of these things can be delayed for any longer.
This was an issue that concerned both your predecessor, Mr Vitorino, and Mrs Gradin; thank heavens there are rather more people interested in it now.
We also, however, have the World Cup football to look forward to, and that will prove to be another test.
Germany is expecting no fewer than 40 000 additional prostitutes, supposedly to meet the needs of the men who will be going to watch the games, and the fact that these women will not be working of their own free will means that something needs to be done.
We will continue to consider this issue in the Women’s Committee and will not stand idly by.
What should go forth from today’s debate is a clear message to the organisations that we support women in their campaign and will not shrink back from raising the issue of demand for prostitutes in specific terms.
Let us address this problem together and, not least by collecting the relevant data, as also with concrete policy measures, at last make this grey area the subject of headlines and make the public aware of it.
