.
Mr President, as the rapporteur said in her introductory remarks, a happy outcome is worth waiting for, and she was not wrong in that.
The document currently before us, and, in particular, that which this House could – and did – contribute to it, is something that can help promote free inland waterway shipping, and that free inland waterway shipping is what we need.
If we want to make the flow of traffic through Europe more generally compatible with the environment, we need proper rules, consistent with each other, for inland waterway transport, and the Commission, in its midterm review, is quite insistent on that – Vice-President Barrot should take note of the fact that I was listening very carefully the last time.
What is called for, however, is not just one single regulation, but the interlinking of all rules applicable to inland shipping, and we must make improvements to the planning of routes, that is to say, the TENs, to the support frameworks – including Marco Polo II – and, not least, the technical rules and regulations, and must bring them up to present-day standards.
A happy outcome is worth waiting for, and our group, the Group of the European People’s Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, thanks Mrs Sommer, the rapporteur, for the valuable work she has done.
We hope there will be large majorities tomorrow, and will play our part in bringing them about.
We will have a few more things to do to the network.
As you have just said, Mr Vice-President, Naiades is the next draft act whereby we have to ensure that the opportunities are actually used and that Europe’s waterways as a whole can make a substantial and constructive contribution towards handling the flows of traffic.
What is important in this regard, particularly in relation to Naiades, is that we must not concentrate only on Western Europe: rather, especially now that the Danube is open, we must ensure that the whole European waterways network may grow together into a sound, proper and safe unity.
