Mr President, Austria’s criticism of the European Court of Justice’s judgment on access to higher education, which you mentioned, was in fact concerned essentially with the actual problems that have arisen as a result of the judgment and the – in our view – overly strict application of the ban on discrimination in the area of education policy.
In that connection, the comment was also made – and that, too, is something that really ought to have been taken into account – that it would have been fully consistent with the tradition of supreme courts to have set transitional periods and not to have stipulated retroactive effect.
These are all points constituting material comment on this judgment.
This judgment has in fact interfered with Austrian citizens’ access to many areas of higher education, especially areas that are important for Austria’s supply of, in this particular case, doctors.
This disruption in what is after all a very important national affair is something that needs to be remedied.
A solution must be found to ensure that enough doctors are trained every year in Austria – or in Belgium – to meet the country’s needs; that is surely a legitimate request.
Ideas have been put forward to overcome and remove this problem.
One of them, which must ultimately be decided by the European Parliament because it will have to be in the form of a law, is to set a quota for the study of medicine – dentistry and human medicine – that will be based not on nationality but on possession of the Austrian school-leaving certificate that guarantees access to higher education.
This will ensure that the number of medical students, of doctors, that Austria needs for its health service nationally is safeguarded.
We believe this solution is compatible with European law and also with the judgment of the European Court of Justice, which after all itself found that the only failing was that this disruption was not numerically documented.
One year on, this documentation is now available.
I believe that this solution, which is very similar to that between Belgium and France, will also stand up to scrutiny in the light of European law.
I believe we are on the right way to a good solution here.
