– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by seizing this opportunity to thank my co-rapporteur Mr Goebbels most warmly for the good cooperation in the steering group, in which we succeeded in producing, for the plenary and for the Conference of Presidents, a draft that is the logical continuation of what we came out with last year when the mid-term review was under consideration.
As it did then, the House endorses the Commission’s strategy.
We have, in particular, again made it clear that our ability to realise the other main objectives of the Lisbon Strategy in the way we want to is conditional upon growth and employment.
This House has also played its part in setting priorities, three of which are mentioned in our resolution, namely population change, energy policy and innovation.
My only complaint is about something that many speakers have already mentioned.
The strategic approach is not our main problem; the strategic approach is the right one.
Our problem is what happens at the end.
To put it in quite practical and quite blunt terms, what I see as the most negative aspect is what we always see happening when the European Council gets its hands on this issue: it decides on a good and substantially sound strategy, presents it at a press conference, and it ends up being written about.
The following day, or perhaps a couple of days later, the finance ministers turn up and take back what the European Council had resolved on.
That is a fundamental strategic problem, and I have no idea how we are to get on top of it; it plays a considerable part in fostering the perception held by some members of the European public that European policy is dishonest and to increasing public despair with Europe.
What must be spelled out at this summit is that we cannot apply double standards; on the contrary, policy as actually implemented must reflect the strategic guidelines.
The last issue I would like to address is that of how the impact of laws is to be assessed – something also mentioned in our resolution.
We would like to point out that we expect the impact assessment to include an independent factor, thus ensuring that the result really is neutral.
This is part of ‘better lawmaking’, and this demand is addressed to the Commission.
