.
Mr President, Commissioner, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats fully supports the substance of the rapporteur Mr Ferber's opinion on the European Commission's progress report.
By means of the opinion presented by the rapporteur, we want to ensure that the Commission uses the measures announced up to 31 December this year to examine closely all the economic, technological, social and geographic aspects of the increasing openness of the postal market and to inform us of its consequences.
To date – I would like to remind you of this, Commissioner, and I am keen to hear your response – not all Member States have, to our knowledge and that of the rapporteur, correctly implemented the Postal Directive on time.
I think that it is the Commission's duty to monitor the implementation of the measures taken so far very carefully in each Member State, to hold the Member to their obligations and, if necessary, to refer them to the European Court of Justice.
Community law must be applied in all Member States.
By way of conciliation, though, I will say that, following the generally positive developments in the postal market for the benefit of the consumers so far, in my opinion the Commission should stick to the joint decision to complete the opening up of postal services in 2009.
I would also ask you to really go into the issue of universal service in detail once more.
If I may summarise, universal service should mean that we can expect high-quality services at affordable prices in all Member States.
That is our goal, but we should take a careful look at that.
I will give you an example: If even Germany now deviates from the principle that the postage charge for a standard letter should be the same both internally and to all 24 other Member States, then we have to consider what that means.
A standard letter in Germany now costs 55 cent, but the same letter to any other EU country costs 70 cent, the first time there has been a difference.
If that means that the postage charged depends on the costs – the distance and the type of delivery – then what is the justification for a universal service?
What is left to justify the restriction of competition by a regulated reserved sector?
We need to examine carefully the question of what the universal area is, what we want it to guarantee, and whether we need a reserved sector to do that.
I am therefore awaiting your assessment and your opinion with great interest.
Thank you very much, Commissioner.
