. – Mr President, let me start by extending warm thanks to Mr Cornillet for his comprehensive report on our activities over the past year, in many of which I have of course participated as first European Vice-President of the Assembly.
I would also, at the outset, like to thank equally warmly our two co-presidents – the European co-president Mrs Kinnock, who is with us today, and, in her absence Sharon Hay-Webster, for their great dedication over the past year, which has been exemplary, and we look forward to their continuing with their work.
The primary object of the Parliamentary Assembly is to reinforce the parliamentary dimension of the Cotonou Agreement.
The many things that we do together are intended to help our counterparts gain influence in their own countries and gain the same self-confidence that we have gained over the years in our dealings with our governments and the executive.
Our shared experiences, and our journeys together to various places, have led us to shared conclusions, for example as regards the reform of the market organisation for sugar.
It is good that the Commissioner for Agriculture is present with us today, since she knows the figures inside out and knows what we in Europe are doing to lessen the impact of reform of the market organisation for sugar and how little, in comparison with that, is available for the countries concerned.
It is apparent from that that our reform directly impacts on these countries, two of which – Guyana and Jamaica – I have myself visited.
In Guyana, we can – without intending to – contribute to the destabilisation of a whole country if we do not lessen the impact of our reform by making adequate compensation available to that country.
There is another important aspect that I would like to highlight.
We call on the Commission to set aside an appropriate proportion of European development funding for the political education of parliamentarians and other persons in positions of leadership, enabling the development in these countries of the sort of political culture that will strengthen responsible governance in the long term.
In conclusion, I would like to mention the official contact that we established with the Pan-African Parliament at the end of last year, when I was able, on behalf of the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, to confer with Sharon Hay-Webster, and I have since become the chairman of this delegation.
It is important that we should foster an awareness in Africa that the continent shares a common destiny and of the important role there that Parliament can play in this respect.
