Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The Finnish Presidency of the Council – as Mr Vanhanen has again demonstrated today – is one with a very sober approach, and, though it might sometimes be rather too cool in its utterances, I can say, thinking of the problems that it will have to deal with, that things are going to hot up quite a bit from time to time.
One problem to which both you and the President of the Commission alluded is the issue of Turkey.
You will be aware that we regard the opening of negotiations with Turkey and the progress of those negotiations as very serious matters, but you will also be aware of our absolute insistence on Turkey discharging its legal obligations, Although we would wish – and it is good that Commissioner Rehn is here to hear this – to see, in parallel with this but not dependent on it, everything possible being done to give the Turkish population of Northern Cyprus a better chance of doing as they desire and drawing closer to the European Union, with the Cypriot Government also doing everything in its power to open up new ways and new channels in order to foster new trust between the two ethnic groups.
If you succeed in doing both these things, that is to say, getting Turkey to do what the law requires of it while also moving things forward in Cyprus, that would be a very great triumph indeed.
Turning to South-Eastern Europe, I can do no other than confirm that we would also like to see you taking further steps to show all of them – including the Serbs – the road to Europe at this very difficult stage.
Let me turn, thirdly, to Russia.
It is only right that you should place both energy and Russia high up your agenda.
There are two things that we regard as vitally important.
Firstly, where energy is concerned, a legally binding framework needs to be agreed on by Russia and the European Union, and, if not the energy charter – concerning which Mr Barroso has announced new initiatives – then it must be some other legally binding framework that is transparent to both parties and valid in both of them.
Secondly, it is vitally important that Russia should pursue a neighbourhood policy similar to Europe’s.
We both have interests in our common neighbours, but, while we offer them one thing or another, Russia often brings political pressure to bear on them.
I would like to see you get Moscow, too, to offer its neighbours something.
In that way, we could end up competing with one another in terms of what we can offer, rather than there being offers from one side and political pressure from the other.
