Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing today is something that has to do with our future, and it is the Lisbon Agenda that clearly defines what that future is to be.
What we want is new jobs and growth, and in order to achieve those things, we need, quite simply, the world’s markets, on which we need to be able to sell our products and services.
The Doha negotiations – which in fact have to do with the ‘Singapore issues’ and aim at reducing customs duties and quotas and opening up markets – are currently undergoing a very grave crisis.
Quite naturally, or so I believe, much of our industrial policy is decided on the global market, and hence the great worry about whether the Doha round will be completed, and how things stand with Kyoto, about whether we have yet carried out all the economic analyses that will assure us that achieving the Kyoto targets really will contribute to growth and to the success of the Lisbon Strategy.
When it comes to the possibilities for investment and for the creation of jobs in Europe, we are talking here in terms of hundreds of billions.
We have spent years debating our budget for the years leading up to 2013 and have worked it out in very precise detail.
I have to be perfectly honest and say that what I find lacking where major decisions such as Kyoto are concerned is any debate on the substance.
We debated the Basel II package, which is now being implemented in Europe, although not elsewhere.
While we must, in particular, protect our own industry’s intellectual property, we must also, at the same time, use these same rights as a means to greater success internationally.
We had a debate this morning on how we might make structural improvements to our industries, and this is where the tradition of family firms, in which investment carries on from one generation to another, and which create markets in each succeeding generation, is so very important, and we must not forget these small and medium-sized businesses.
This ought to be a major consideration as we look to the future.
