– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as the draftsman for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I should like to stress that the European Court of Auditors already has a tradition of criticism of the trans-European networks.
For example, in its latest report on transparency, it stated that 'complex annual administrative procedures for evaluating and selecting TEN-T projects have been established by the Commission and these have not always led to relevant information being available for the evaluation'.
In addition, the Court of Auditors recommends that 'the Commission should also develop an explicit methodology for evaluating proposals submitted under TEN-T and publish it in a manual'.
This is overdue.
The Court of Auditors also criticised the coordination, stating that 'the coordination of the various sources of Community funding for transport infrastructure projects by the various Directorates-General does not allow the Commission to detect all cases of over- or double funding'.
In view of the tight budgetary situation, that is unacceptable.
In order to eliminate this problem, the Court of Auditors even makes some specific proposals: 'the Commission should establish appropriate legal bases, procedures and tools in order to improve the coordination of transport infrastructure funding and to identify potential cases of over- or double funding.
This should be done, where necessary, in cooperation with the Member States'.
To that I would add that responsible persons must be appointed at all levels, and consequences must be drawn.
There are also deficits with regard to road safety and passengers’ rights.
In the case of road safety, only 60% of payment appropriations were used, and only 11% of the payment appropriations were spent on protecting passengers’ rights.
That, too, must change in future.
I should like to conclude by expressing my deep gratitude to the Court of Auditors.
I call on the Commission to rectify these problems and accept the proposals, so that the annual tradition of criticism from the Court of Auditors can be broken next year.
As EMSA states in the annexes, the maritime and aviation safety agencies should in future make better use of their available resources, although the agencies were still new and had certain teething problems in 2004.
