. – Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the football World Cup is being held in Germany under the slogan, ‘a time to make friends’.
The sporting community is getting ready for it, but so are organised gangs of traffickers – getting ready to ship thousands of women to Germany and exploit them there.
These women will be enticed to Germany with false promises and then forced into prostitution.
Poverty is one of the main causes of this, and that is where we must start, but making people welcome in Germany must also mean protecting women in need rather than turning a blind eye to their plight.
Up to 800 000 women worldwide fall victim to people-trafficking, and 100 000 of them come from the EU.
Although nobody has any idea how many of them will be in Germany this summer, we should show the people-traffickers the red card.
What I expect you to do, Commissioner Frattini, is to take the proposals that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality put forward in the Prets report and in the plan of action against trafficking in women, and use them as the basis for practical action.
If the women’s organisations’ campaign for multilingual telephone hotlines is to be supported, it will need funding.
Victim protection schemes need to be put in place.
Reference has already been made to the way in which the Member States have been no more than half-hearted in their transposition of the 2002 Asylum Directive, and pressure needs to be brought to bear upon them.
Belgium has said that the right to remain will be accorded to women who are willing to take the witness stand and who want to get out of prostitution, and that they will be given help in order to do that.
That is quite splendid.
If the modern-day trade in women is to be effectively combated, then Europol will have to become more involved, and there are of course things that the sporting associations can do; that is why we rely on their cooperation in appealing to the fans to keep their eyes open and do their bit, as they must.
To demand special visas for women is to shoot from the hip, and I am not in favour of that, so please give some more careful thought to what you propose to do.
