– Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am obliged to all of you for mentioning the positive impact of the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership in your speeches.
It is of course possible to enumerate a large number of issues where fairly great deficiencies remain, as Mrs Madeira has just done.
This means that we can by no means rest on our laurels – and, indeed, we are not doing – but rather must set ourselves the task of continuing work on all the fields that Mrs Madeira cited – health care, social dialogue, sustainability, gender issues, opportunities for education and many other issues.
That cannot be done overnight.
We would be deceiving ourselves if we were to believe that this Partnership alone would be sufficient to enable us to make changes in a short space of time, but we must work at it, and, as the Commissioner said, the instruments to do so are available.
The human rights issue has been mentioned many times.
This is a particular concern of mine personally and also of the Council’s as a whole.
I would add that I do not believe that the Council or the EU as a whole can be accused of not having a coherent, methodical human rights policy; I believe that we do have one.
Incidentally, I believe that the Human Rights Agency, which I hope will be established soon and will have your support, will be able to make a contribution to a methodical approach to the issue of human rights.
Mr President, I would also like to thank all those very engaged parliamentarians like yourself and your subcommittee and Mrs De Keyser and others who are working constantly and with great commitment towards better understanding between the peoples in the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
We should be grateful to them and we should do our best to support you and help you, even if you do not fully agree with one or two Council measures.
Iran has also been mentioned in this connection.
I should just like to say in this regard that it is of course the Council’s policy to use peaceful means, negotiation, to achieve results.
Mr Carnero González said something very important, which was that something happened at the November summit that would have been impossible a few years ago.
A close look at this declaration on terrorism, this Code of Conduct on Countering Terrorism, reveals that it contains a good approach to even the difficult, delicate issues – and, of course, the fight against terrorism, with all the familiar political problems, is an extremely difficult one.
It is an approach that enables us to continue to achieve further results, and the Council shares this objective.
I should like to thank all the Members for their good ideas and suggestions, which we shall, of course, be happy to take up and look into.
