.
The Austrian Presidency has already seen several debates on the quite crucial issue of how to minimise and limit the pollutants produced by vehicles in transit.
We started negotiations on the Commission’s proposal with the aim of putting in place progressive rules, with a longer-term perspective, on exhaust gases, and with the intention that these rules would – crucially in terms of our discussions today on sustainability – not only satisfy the demands of environmental policy but also give European industry the security to plan its technical development in advance.
Both of these things can be achieved through stringent imposition, in the medium term, of threshold values for emissions from – for example – diesel vehicles.
It was with this in mind that negotiations were conducted at Council level, in the hope of achieving, in June 2006 – which is almost upon us – political agreement in the Council, on the assumption that such a thing would be possible in terms of the timetable, particularly in so far as it related to Parliament.
If I might give a brief summary, it emerged from the negotiations – which, in accordance with the Austrian Presidency’s initiative, were accompanied by two specific information seminars for the Member States, the first, in February, discussing mainly the state-of-the-art environmental requirements for removing particulates from vehicle exhausts, in particular NOx from the exhausts of diesel cars, while a second is to be held on 22 June – that a broad majority among the Member States have expressed themselves in favour of this objective, concerning which there are already to be definite and binding discussions in relation to the stipulation of Euro-6 limits.
We will, of course, be consistent in moving this issue forward.
It is absolutely vital that both air strategy and the implementation of Euro-5 and Euro-6 be discussed at the next Environment Council at the end of June.
We want to take an ambitious approach to these things.
In view of the discussion on the PM10 issue, on particulates pollution, particularly in Central Europe, and on NOx values, it is important that unambiguous rules be put in place, for it must be clear to us that what our industry needs is the security to plan ahead, and that it is, worldwide, in competition with other vehicle manufacturers, some of whom have already ventured some very ambitious responses.
As these matters progress, we want to move forwards for the sake of environmental safety and quality of life in Europe and also for the sake of the health of the people who live in the areas affected.
We will, then, endeavour to maintain this tricky balance between Euro-5 and Euro-6 as perspectives, as well, possibly, as Nx and PM10 as means of achieving environment targets, and, on the other hand, the desire to keep Europe’s automobile industry competitive.
This is the path down which we have set out, and, at the Environment Council, we will have to discuss these two issues – air strategy and Euro-5, and also the further prospects for them – in very considerable depth, and several Commissioners will be present when we do so.
