.
The Community measures for the promotion of sustainable forest management in the European Union form part of the EU’s forestry strategy, which comprises several components, namely rural development, the protection and monitoring of forests, the maintenance of biodiversity and the alleviation of the effects of climate change.
Woodland performs a very wide variety of functions, and rural development policy is – as I said in response to the previous question – the main instrument for implementing the forestry strategy at Community level.
Under the heading of rural development over the period from 2000 to 2006, the Community made available funds to a total of some EUR 4.8 billion for forestry in Europe, amounting to 10% of the total funding allocated to rural development.
Over and above that, the new regulation provides for even more to be done for forestry as part of the promotion of rural development between 2007 and 2013.
This amounts to a forthright commitment to forestry and both to producers and consumers in the forestry field.
What are the future areas for support in forestry to which we refer?
One, for a start, is first afforestation on agricultural land, the initial setting up of agricultural forestry systems on farmland, the initial afforestation on non-agricultural land, payments under Natura 2000, forest-environment payments, the restoration of forestry potential, the introduction of prevention actions, and also support for non-productive investments.
What will be important in determining the direction we take in the future is the fact that we must not, in the debate on the forest strategy, forget one thing, namely that forests have a task to perform in terms of the biodiversity of flora and fauna, that they provide space for relaxation, that they have an environmental role to play, that they help us to deal with climate change, that they prepare the ground for sustainable energy supply, while at the same time having an enormous part to play in Europe’s economy.
It is vitally important that this be considered as a whole, and the forest strategy also needs to include extensive discussion of these issues.
