Mr President, most continents take billions of years to develop.
The Erste Bank, which one can certainly regard as a continent, started out in 1997 with 60 000 customers and has grown to the point where it has, today – according to what I have just read in an advertisement – 12.5 million account holders in Austria, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Croatia and Slovenia.
Mr President, Austria has made use of the unique opportunities provided by reunification, and is to be congratulated for it.
At the same time, Austria is one of those Member States who know very well what still needs to be done before we take the enlargement one step further, to ensure that the 2004 enlargement is effective, opportunities are gradually equalised and dissimilarities are reduced.
Economic growth, more jobs – this is the topic of the Presidency Conference to be held in March.
In order to achieve this, we expect the Austrian Presidency to ensure that Europe is not divided by unjustified or artificially induced fears.
The free movement of people or services must be on the agenda.
What we need is an obstacle-free common market.
The countries that joined in 2004 suffer from the complete absence of a strong stratum of small and medium-sized enterprises.
We expect the Austrian Presidency to propose initiatives in conjunction with national governments to ensure that SMEs, which create the majority of jobs, are encouraged to take root and develop in these countries, as well.
Regulation or a framework programme for competitiveness must be on the agenda.
We expect the Austrian Presidency to ensure that, together with Parliament, we achieve a numerical improvement in the seven-year budget.
And when this is done, we must immediately facilitate the utilisation of available funds!
Let us eliminate, at last, the obstacles that hinder the already difficult utilisation of funds, whether by delays in time or the excessive restrictions imposed.
The objective is not repayment at the end of the year, but utilisation.
We need a more flexible budget.
Mr Chancellor, we welcome the Austrian Presidency and count on you.
