Mr President, Mr Špidla, Mrs Hübner, the fact that the Commission and the Council have accepted most of Parliament’s amendments on Social Fund reform really shows how well this House has worked.
That we have also in the end reached a good compromise on all the points in dispute also shows how well the Austrian Council Presidency conducted the negotiations.
All 25 states can be well and truly satisfied with the results of this reform.
Initial and further training and retraining in promising occupations will continue to be supported in the future.
But support is also given for the first time for finding better ways of reconciling family and working life, because, as we all know, we need to do more than just provide enough crèche and after-school care places if we want to get more women into work.
What we need are new ways of working and new forms of support that are quite specifically geared to this.
However, there also needs to be a closer link with European employment strategy, and social exclusion must be curtailed.
In view of the 20 million unemployed and 68 million people living in poverty in the European Union as a whole, particular attention will in future also be paid to the integration of socially disadvantaged groups.
The same is true for people with disabilities and now, at the insistence of this House, also for asylum seekers and not only for recognised refugees.
At this point, it should also be pointed out that it will of course in future again also be possible to have projects to combat xenophobia and racism in training establishments and at the workplace.
However, a sound general education is a basic prerequisite for good vocational training, and for that reason money from the Social Fund may now also be used to reform education systems.
And for the new Member States I think it is particularly important that we have included the strengthening of the social dialogue and hence of the social partners.
In future, no one will be able to steal away secretly, experience speaks for itself.
Acceptance has been higher where the social partners have been tangibly involved in the development of employment programmes.
