– Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when he awarded the Charlemagne Prize, Jean-Claude Juncker said, among other things: ‘Thank goodness other people are watching us who are not Europeans.
Africans, Asians, even Americans never cease to marvel at European successes.
The only ones to grumble about them are the Europeans themselves.
I cannot understand it.’
Neither can I. We should stop talking ourselves into a crisis and instead work together on the requisite projects and solutions.
The President of the Commission is right in saying that Nice is insufficient.
That is why we had Laeken, however, and Laeken produced the Convention – and so we have already drawn up a new Treaty that needs to be transposed.
He is right in saying that the two referendums with a negative outcome have plunged us into a crisis that is partly reinforced by our calling it one.
That is the reason for the period of reflection we have had for one year now.
That is why we want to salvage the political project of the Constitution.
Indeed, it has already been ratified by 16 Member States.
To the President-in-Office of the Council I would say that I most definitely expect this Summit to put an end to any talk of the death of the political project of a new Treaty, and to result instead in all parties declaring their support for the decision on this political project, concluding it in this parliamentary term and continuing the ratification process.
I expect there to be no talk of the crisis of the European Union, only talk of the political projects; I expect to see not only analysis, but also the setting of dates, the establishment of projects, the issuing of work orders, the establishment of timetables and the involvement of the public.
Let us take over the parliamentary forums and establish them in the national and regional parliaments, too.
Let us increase transparency and make Plan D more specific.
This will enable the successful implementation of the political projects and mean that the period of analysis is a thing of the past.
