In a globalised world, the competitiveness of European industry is crucial to growth and employment.
The proposals put forward by the Commission for a modern industrial policy are specifically intended not only to make the fullest possible use of European industry’s potential for employment, but also to extend it still further.
There is, then, a quite direct connection between employment policy and industrial policy.
I am obliged to you for your question, since it gives me the opportunity to clarify that the industry policy to which I am committed – as also is the Commission – is not one that defends the interests of ‘shareholder value’; on the contrary, the object of this industry policy is to secure in the long term high-quality jobs in Europe.
The main goal of the policy I defend is to provide people with good-quality jobs, and enough of them.
Contrary to one point of view that was formerly to be heard in Europe, we are, today, more than ever convinced that this goal will not be achieved without a strong industrial base in Europe, that is to say, industry that is strong, high-performing and competitive.
I would also like to bring to your attention certain aspects of our policy that have to do quite specifically with the connection between industrial policy and employment policy.
One I would mention in particular is the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, which has now – at the Commission’s suggestion – been set up, the funds allocated to which are primarily intended to help workers affected by rapid structural changes to gain further qualifications or find new jobs.
I would point out to you that the Commission is currently working on a policy intended to remedy the skills shortages in Europe, improving the content of jobs and improving employment opportunities in numerous sectors, specifically in information and communications technology, machine-building, the textile and leather industry and various areas of raw materials production and manufacturing industry.
The European Union is also helping to improve the functioning of working relationships and is strongly supportive of corporate social responsibility.
Your question also provides me with an opportunity to say to European businesses that the achievement of high profits can never be a business’ sole objective, for a European business always has a social function to fulfil; it has a responsibility to society, and that responsibility primarily has to do with the jobs it provides.
As you can see, considering our industrial policy in complete isolation from employment policy would be a quite artificial distinction to draw.
It can, perhaps, be summed up in a single sentence.
Modern industrial policy in Europe is a quite essential and indispensable contribution to the improvement of employment opportunities.
