– () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start thanking not only Mrs Kauppi, the rapporteur, but also all those, the shadow rapporteurs in particular, who have worked on this highly complex topic, for their great effort.
Once again, I have to say how deeply disappointed I am in our Bureau; today is an historic date, and on it we have been provided with evidence of how effective parliamentary participation is in the committee procedure.
Within the institutions, we – the representatives of the citizens, of the people of Europe – are actually achieving something, and, as we debate it shortly before midnight, we are enjoined to keep things brief.
This is not the first time this has happened.
I know that the Bureau and the powers-that-be are not interested, yet, all the same, I shall not tire of saying that we should concentrate on showing the public the rights that this House possesses.
At the moment, we are discussing the reinforcement of Parliament’s rights in respect of committee procedure, specifically the Lamfalussy procedure.
In the week in which the decisive sessions are to be held, the Bureau schedules debate on it for just before midnight; no worse message could be sent about the subject.
The good thing that has emerged from this evening is that we have demonstrated that this House plays a cooperative role in dialogue with the Council and the Commission, and that this is not our fault.
I call on the Council, both this week and next, to take this positive example to heart.
We have demonstrated that we, through the procedure of our committees, can come to decisions that are more efficient, that make possible better regulation and hence also the continuation of the Lamfalussy procedure, that is to say of this House’s right of review, with this House notified in good time and the perspective afforded by the institutionalisation of the call-back.
We should adopt something to this effect.
I see that the gavel is about to come down; in this House, time is the most important thing.
Even so, the Commission should take care that, in the financial markets – for that is what this directive is about – there should in future come into being a European model in which the strengths of all parties are taken into account.
