.
Mr President, Mahmoud Abbas was supposed to appear before your House today to give a speech, but, for reasons of which you are aware, this speech had to be cancelled.
It is therefore natural that the leaders of the groups and other important Members wished to speak.
However, I would like to take the opportunity to express briefly, on behalf of the Council, our deep concern regarding the continuing and escalating violence in the Middle East.
The Austrian Foreign Minister and President of the Council, Mrs Plassnik, has condemned the violent attacks by radical Palestinians on EU institutions and has also given her support to the appeals by the Security Council and the Secretary-General of the United Nations in this connection.
The top priority is to restore peace and order and to protect human lives.
We must remind all those responsible that they have a duty to protect human lives and to free the hostages still detained.
As Mr Poettering quite rightly said, this is not the time for hasty conclusions.
The Council, too, will now discuss what specific steps need to be taken.
I also agree with Mr Schulz, who said that all the institutions – Parliament, the Council and the Commission – are duty-bound to act responsibly to ensure that the Middle East peace process does not break down irrevocably, but can continue.
We call on Israel and the Palestinian Authority to exercise restraint, in order to avoid further escalation.
In this context, I would also agree with Mr Cohn-Bendit that we need to prevent and avoid unilateral action.
That is not the way to resolve the problems in the Middle East.
Over the last few weeks and months, the foreign ministers have repeatedly grappled with the problem of the Middle East, most recently in Salzburg last weekend at the informal meeting of foreign ministers, on which Mrs Plassnik will report today.
Attacks on institutions, hostage-taking and all other kinds of violence do not just contradict our own values.
They also disrupt and run counter to the peace efforts.
We hope that, together, we will be able to get the peace process back on track.
