. () Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is my firm conviction that we can only be successful in dealing with this important issue – so essential to our own credibility – if we hold firmly to the values of this European Union of ours.
We must be reliable and speak out with a united voice.
It seems important to me and even vital that the institutions of the European Union, above all the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission, are speaking the same language.
Personally I do not believe that we will make progress if we try to accuse each other and reproach each other for failing, more or less, to observe the principles of respect and tolerance.
We have to find a common language.
I have heard a great deal today pointing in this direction, and for that I am most warmly appreciative.
Mrs Lambert referred to something which I believe to be of crucial importance: the role of the media.
We had a EuroMed conference in Vienna ten days ago at which, amongst other things, we discussed the role of the media.
The consensus was that you cannot censor the media, you cannot tell them what to do.
We cannot aim for a code or law to regulate what the law should or should not do.
However, the media should have self-control over what it does, because it plays a crucial role.
As far as I am concerned, in a democracy the independent media plays probably the most important role in conveying everything that has been said here in favour of tolerance, in favour of the fight against racism.
That is very important.
To Mrs in ‘t Veld, I would say that this is an Austrian matter.
Ever since 2000 we have been working very vigorously on finding solutions for the Austrian Nazi victims.
There is absolutely no doubt that victims of discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation are considered victims of Nazism.
To Mr Agnoletto, who unfortunately is no longer here, I would like to say that I very emphatically reject - and I do this with some personal emotion, too - the accusation that the Austrian Presidency of the Council is guilty - precisely on this question - of inactivity.
I think Mr Agnoletto has not really been following the events of the last six months of the Austrian Presidency.
I would particularly like to thank Mr Sonik for having emphasised the activity of the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia in Vienna, and for having stressed the important potential role that the human rights agency could play in precisely this area.
I call once again upon all Members to support the future Presidency of the Council in this issue, so that this European human rights agency can become a reality.
It would play an important part in the fight against racism and for tolerance.
