– Madam President, Commissioner, the Commission’s original proposal was that Daphne should be a joint programme for combating violence and both educating people about drugs and preventing the abuse of them.
Getting it to withdraw this proposal took a determined campaign, with joint statements by the Committee for Women's Rights and Gender Equality and women’s organisations, and I really am relieved that they have avoided the issues of drugs and violence being confused and enabled us to press on with what is one of the EU’s most successful programmes.
To date, however, it has been possible to use Daphne I and II to fund only some 17% of the good proposals that have been submitted, which is a demonstration of how enormous demand is, and it is for that reason that the Committee for Women's Rights and Gender Equality is calling for additional resources.
Today sees us sending out two very clear messages.
The first is that Europe will attach greater weight to the campaign against violence and refrain from conflating it with other aspects.
The second is that we acknowledge and support the valuable work done on the ground by organisations such as women’s organisations, numerous self-help and human rights organisations, youth associations and their networks.
Violence is on the increase in daily life, particularly those aspects of it that cross borders, and it is this that the Daphne programme addresses first, having come into being in response to it.
The women’s movement made a priority of such matters as domestic violence, child abuse, and the trafficking of women for their sexual exploitation, and we have been able to develop many good projects to deal with these things, while also raising public awareness of them – and not just since the World Cup.
Daphne I and Daphne II have yielded valuable knowledge, one result of which has been that all the projects have been summarised in a user-friendly ‘tool kit’, which it has now been possible to pass on to the various professional organisations; studies have also been made available to a wide professional public, along with contacts far beyond Europe’s borders.
Now, though, we have new tasks to which to address ourselves.
Daphne III makes cross-border ‘networking’ much more important.
New things are happening in the migration field, and there is much important work to be done on the people-trafficking front.
We have proposed financial support for a network of ombudspersons for children, and a single number for children's emergency telephones throughout Europe.
We also want to reinforce the networks of organisations dealing with violence on the Internet.
The various activities make up a long list, and so it is not unreasonable to do as the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left has done and demand EUR 120 or 125 million for them, and I hope that this House will help to meet the need that this demand reflects.
This House, during the last stage of Daphne, managed to secure the establishment of a helpdesk, and we have had a very positive experience of this.
It has helped organisations to establish contact with one another across borders and to find the right people to talk to.
When considering the establishment of a ‘think tank’, we should also have recourse to the immense reserve of knowledge to be found in the organisations, drawing on this knowledge and deepening it.
I do not, however, wish too great a burden to be placed on Daphne, and so I would ask you to be careful with Amendment 56.
It is intended that it should clearly define Daphne’s main target group as being children, women, and young people, and should make clear that such categories as social workers, frontier personnel, and the police are not included.
My message to you is that there must be no doubt about the fact that Daphne is mainly targeted at women, children and young people, although the others can be involved, as is made clear in Amendment 57 and elsewhere.
We continue to demand a European Year against violence against women; it is something that has been being called for for a long time, not least in Daphne I and II, and we are being persistent and consistent in continuing to do so.
I will take this opportunity to ask that all forms of violence, without equivocation or exception, be targeted.
This is something that the Committee on Women’s Rights and Gender Equality has worked through with the Commission, and I hope that we will be able to come to a final agreement on it with the Finnish Presidency of the Council by the end of the year, as we are indeed willing and ready to do.
