– These questions concern a uniform assessment basis for company taxation.
The Commission is currently working on the technical preparations for a proposal for a common consolidated corporate tax base.
These preparations are entrusted to a working group under the auspices of the Commission itself that was set up following the informal Ecofin Council in September 2004.
On 5 April of this year, the Commission presented the Council, the European Parliament and the European Economic and Social Committee with a communication entitled ‘Progress to date and next steps towards a Common Consolidated Corporate Tax Base (CCCTB)’.
This firstly reports on the progress made to date, as the title indicates, and secondly identifies the fields in which the Commission requires political support and direction for further technical work.
At the informal Ecofin Council held at the Presidency’s invitation in Vienna on 7 April, Ministers were presented with the Commission’s initial report on the state of technical preparations.
At the end of this informal Council, the Council President, Karl-Heinz Grasser, stated that the discussions had shown there to be clear majority in favour of this assessment basis.
In the Ministers’ estimation, this basis would result in cost savings for enterprises and a simplification of the national tax systems.
In addition, the Commissioner responsible for taxation, Commissioner Kovács, stated that, although it was no easy task to speak up for a harmonised corporate tax base, the Ministers had engaged in an informative exchange of views over lunch.
In future, the Commission will report regularly to the Council on the progress of the work.
The Presidency has put an initial exchange of views between Ministers concerning the Commission communication on the agenda for the Council to be held on 7 June of this year.
His expectation is that the contributions that the working group I have already mentioned receives from the Commission and the Member States will make it possible for rapid progress to be made with technical preparations.
As Commissioner Kovács, the Commissioner responsible, stated at the last informal Council, the issue should appear on the agenda of the following Council Presidency, too – as envisaged in the annual programme.
This is an issue that cannot be resolved in the near future, therefore, but needs lengthy preparation.
