– Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me just say a few things about the matters that have nothing to do with the enlargement countries, which I shall shortly be discussing as part of my report.
I would like to say something briefly about the Middle East.
We find ourselves in ever-greater difficulties, as a result not only of developments over the past few days, but of those that have taken place over recent weeks and months.
On the one hand, there is the situation with which both sides in the Holy Land itself are presenting us; on the other, there is the issue of how probable it is that Iran will be deterred from a military nuclear programme.
And if, as is indeed possible, there is a closing of the circle – with Iran, Syria, a multilateral agreement in Lebanon with Hisbollah and contacts with Hamas – there arises the great danger of an alliance that is highly problematic and to which we have to find a response, not only in order to secure peace and fight terrorism, but also to guarantee the security of our energy supplies.
I am grateful, Madam President-in-Office, for having been able to be present for some of the discussions.
Whilst the negotiations will see us tackling hard political facts, we must also ensure that there is a real dialogue of cultures, so that the fundamentalists will be unable to prevent the moderates – who are present in all the regions – from forming a majority.
Perhaps, Madam President-in-Office, I might be permitted to address another aspect of great significance in some areas, that being the issue of the European Union’s mission to the Congo.
I would be very interested to know whether there is already a mandate in place for this, setting out what it is to do and for how long and over what geographical area it is to do it, and whether the Congolese authorities have officially invited such a project and the European Union’s participation in it.
If decisions are to be taken concerning this both here and elsewhere, it is extraordinarily important that there should be clarity as regards what the Presidency of the Council and the High Representative are doing about organising such a mandate.
