.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in answer to Mr Papadimoulis’ question I would like to stress that the same criteria of course apply to all the countries of the Western Balkans.
The Council has always upheld that principle and it goes without saying that it also applies to Serbia-Montenegro.
May I remind you that at the November 2000 summit in Zagreb the Heads of State or Government of the EU Member States and the countries of the Western Balkans expressed their commitment to the stabilisation and association process.
It was made clear that accession to the European Union can only take place if the terms of the Treaty on European Union are observed, the Copenhagen criteria satisfied and progress is made on the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
It goes without saying that all countries must satisfy these conditions equally, without any discrimination.
There is also a commitment to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations, which are very much essential parts of the stabilisation and association process.
That commitment was reaffirmed in the Thessaloniki summit statement in 2003, which also noted these countries’ European perspective.
I would at this point again like to point out that one of the Austrian Presidency’s priorities is to reaffirm that European perspective by focussing on the Balkans during the six months of the Austrian Presidency; the countries of the Western Balkans must have the opportunity of joining the European Union if the conditions for that are satisfied.
Now so far as Serbia-Montenegro is concerned, that country has enjoyed trade concessions and financial and technical assistance since the year 2000 as part of the stabilisation and association process.
Since 2001, the European Union has also provided Serbia-Montenegro with political advice through the consultative task force, which was later replaced by the strengthened permanent dialogue in preparation for negotiations on a Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
If progress is to be made in the various stages of the negotiation process, Serbia-Montenegro will have to continue to cooperate very closely and consistently with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia.
That applies just as much for Serbia-Montenegro as it did for Croatia and as it also applies for all the other countries at issue here.
The European Commission is also monitoring Serbia-Montenegro’s cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal during the negotiations for the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
Should the Commission conclude that cooperation is not unreserved, it can, together with the Council, decide to suspend those negotiations.
As I have already pointed out, Serbia-Montenegro and all the other countries of the region must of course satisfy the Copenhagen criteria.
These include political stability, respect for human rights and the ability to meet the particular requirements of the stabilisation and association process.
The honourable Member also raised the matter of Kosovo.
I would like to point out that the European Council made clear what the European Union expects of the parties with regard to Kosovo in June 2005.
It called on both Belgrade and Prishtina not to obstruct the introduction of the necessary standards in Kosovo.
As you know, negotiations on the status of Kosovo are ongoing.
Both sides will have to demonstrate their good will in this process, however, if a solution is to be reached that is acceptable to both sides.
The Council said on that occasion that any solution must be fully consistent with European values and standards and contribute to realising the European perspective for Kosovo and the region.
It went on to say that the final status of Kosovo must result in greater security and stability in the region and that any unilateral solution or one imposed by force would therefore be unacceptable.
