on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, only recently, some elements in this House celebrated the ruling of the European Court of Justice to the effect that the agreement between the EU and the United States on US access to airline passenger data was invalid on formal grounds.
The interim agreement that has now been concluded leaves the nature and scope of the information largely unchanged, however.
Admittedly, the United States no longer has automatic access to the data, instead having to request them from the airlines.
This represents a successful negotiation outcome, one for which I should like to express my particular thanks to Commissioner Frattini.
Nevertheless, the agreement that the European Court of Justice declared invalid clearly stipulated that the customs and border protection authorities were permitted to pass on these data only in exceptional cases.
Now, airline passenger data may be passed on, as required, to all the American authorities responsible for combating terrorism.
Passengers probably do not feel that this compromises their security - the opposite is more likely to be the case - but my group, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, has a strong sense that, by referring the case to the Court of Justice, certain Members of this House have done us all a disservice, for one thing that must be recognised today is that the new agreement affords no greater data protection than the old one.
For this reason, I would plead that we continue to work to safeguard the high standards of data protection in Europe, including in the case of the transfer of airline passenger data.
While Parliament and the Commission should exert their influence on future negotiations to this end, we must also recognise that a sovereign state such as the United States will continue to exercise the right to lay down rules on who can enter its territory and on what conditions.
