Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, everything that humans do to animals comes back to them: Pythagoras realised this as much as two-and-a-half-thousand years ago.
Looking at the interaction between animal protection, animal health, sustainability, and environmental and food safety, I can see that this is still true today.
Thankfully, animal protection now plays a major part in our society.
The public's desire for ethically and socially sound products is increasing, and recently we have been increasingly dealing with sensitive issues such as animal protection relating to breeding, transport and slaughter.
I welcome the Action Plan for the Protection and Welfare of Animals, and I congratulate Mrs Jeggle on her report, in which she specifies unequivocally what is needed.
We need measures to keep the public better informed about modern animal-protection methods and applied animal protection.
We must improve marketing, and also labelling and communication strategies, to inform consumers and thus assist them in their purchasing decisions.
A simple, precise 'EU label' for animal protection could help us harmonise the currently diverging systems of animal-protection labelling and lay down minimum standards for animal protection applicable throughout the EU - and, I hope, beyond our borders, too, in the near future.
We must not forget to involve animal breeders and keepers and also public opinion in this animal-protection policy, however.
Why is it that Community animal-protection policy has been restricted to farmed animals up to now?
Are cats and dogs not worth protecting just because we do not eat them?
This appears to be a legitimate question, as does the one as to whether pets are always kept in conditions appropriate to their species.
We hear of all sorts of things taking place, for example birds being kept in cages, and snakes and other reptiles in urban flats.
That is why this view has a rightful place in the report.
We have been advocating a reduction in the use of animals in research, science and product approval.
Animal testing should be carried out only in the absence of any alternatives.
