on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, in the first place thanks are due to the rapporteur for having produced this excellent piece of work.
That is a big compliment, Matthias, for it is not every day that I praise Social Democrats.
The close cooperation between the rapporteurs has decisively contributed to the fact that we have been able to achieve a good compromise and a consensus at first reading.
With Euro 5, the soot particle problem of diesel vehicles is practically solved, particulate matter emissions are reduced by 80%, and, thanks to modern engine filters and particle filters, many a new diesel passenger car will have an exhaust that lets out cleaner air behind than it sucks in at the front.
We also achieve a drastic reduction in the nitrogen oxides emitted by diesel vehicles.
As rapporteur for the air quality directive I can tell you I wish that all technical systems were as clean and energy-efficient as our modern passenger cars.
I am pleased that we could agree on a realistic timetable for the introduction of the new limit values, one which takes into account the production cycles of the modern automobile industry.
The 'green side' of this House would like to see Euro 5 and Euro 6 introduced earlier, and also stricter limit values for nitrogen oxides, as, indeed, do we all, and the 'green side' is even right in saying that the technology to do this already exists, of course it does, but we cannot pursue illusory policies here.
Not only do businesses bear responsibility, but they also incur risks.
Technologies must not only be available, but must also be marketable and affordable for the consumer.
It does little for the environment if new, clean cars are not affordable and we therefore cannot get the old ones off the roads.
Even today, it is not the new cars which are the problem.
More than half of all the passenger cars in Europe only comply with the Euro 3 standard or less, and our goal must therefore be to completely renew all vehicles on the road.
We were generous with the exceptions for M1 vehicles, but I think that this is justified, since the effects on the environment are comparatively small.
The fact is that SUVs are popular with consumers and there is a trend towards larger cars.
However, it is not the job of the legislator to criticise this.
In a market economy - and when it comes to environmental decisions I keep wanting to remind people about this - the decision to buy is, in the end, made by the consumer.
I come from the system of the former GDR, where the state and party leadership decided for us what the best car for each individual was, and that is something I have no desire to go back to.
