on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, as the representatives both of the Council and of the Commission have indicated - without, however, spelling it out explicitly - there is no doubt that relations between the European Union and Russia have become problematic.
My group was in favour of embarking on negotiations with Russia, on the grounds that this would have been the test of whether or not that country really was willing to engage in fair negotiations and arrive at fair outcomes, but we do very much understand what motivated Poland to exercise its veto, and, if discriminatory action is being taken - for that is how I understand what the Commissioner said - then Poland deserves our full solidarity.
We cannot tolerate discriminatory or unfair treatment of any one or more Member States of the EU.
Secondly, what is absolutely necessary now is that the European Union should act as one.
It is not acceptable that individual countries should set off on solo jaunts and make it possible for Russia to cherrypick certain countries with which to carry on separate negotiations.
I trust that solidarity within the European Union will remain unimpaired.
Thirdly, our common neighbours need support, for they are in a difficult position where Russia is concerned.
It is the idea of offering them support that underpins our ideas for an EU/Black Sea community, which we will be discussing in this House in December.
Fourthly, there is the human rights issue, about which we will not be silent, whether or not we now start negotiations, but we cannot possibly accept it when President Putin says, on the one hand, that he has nothing to do with all the things that are going on, while, on the other, doing nothing to ensure that those who are responsible end up before a judge.
It is the President of Russia who now needs to deal with this matter - him and nobody else.
None of us - certainly none of the members of my own group - wants another Cold War with Russia, but we will not be silent for as long as such violations of human rights are going on as we see at present, resulting in the deaths of people who are contending for the free expression of opinion in Russia.
(Applause)
