Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mrs Jeggle, for this sound, objective, professional report.
It is well known that Austria, my home country, has a national animal protection act that is among the most modern in Europe.
I am delighted that this report has borrowed heavily from the Austrian Federal Act on the Protection of Animals, which is really very practicable and is concerned with keeping animals in conditions appropriate to the respective species.
This whole matter has been very difficult, as the European public is rightly concerned about this issue.
After all, the welfare of all animals must be taken into account.
For this reason, I am very disappointed that the previous speaker still refers only to animals for breeding and production, not to all animals.
All animals are living beings, and all have a right to be kept in conditions appropriate to their species, be it in zoos or homes or as pets.
Being a farmer who ran a farm for more than 30 years and kept animals there, I of all people know how important it is that animals be kept in conditions appropriate to their species.
The way animals are kept and fed has a particularly strong influence on the quality of the product, of the foodstuff they go to produce.
Accordingly, on the basis of my knowledge and day-to-day experiences, I hold this report in very high regard.
I am also delighted that this report mentions animal protection with regard to the WTO, and particularly to imports from third countries.
After all, it has to be made quite clear that, unless we succeed in making the breeding and keeping of all animals - be they from the EU or imported from third countries - subject to the same rules, there will be no benefit to European farmers, European animals or even European consumers, as production methods will simply not be as desired.
All animals are living beings, as I have already said, and that is why I should like, in retrospect, to thank Mrs Jeggle most sincerely once more for her report.
