Madam President, Mr Davies, the Commission attaches great importance to the voluntary commitment on the part of the automobile industry to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars.
These commitments have made it possible to achieve considerable reductions in consumption by new passenger cars.
In 2004, average CO2 emissions from new passenger cars were 12.4% lower than in 1995, falling from 186 grams of emissions per kilometre to 163 grams.
It is in the industry's own interests to keep to the commitments it has entered into.
Failure to attain the target value of 140 grams per kilometre would threaten the credibility of voluntary commitments as an alternative to legally binding regulations.
So far, all three industry associations have attained the interim targets that were set as part of their voluntary commitment.
Although they consider the final target very ambitious, they have all reaffirmed their determination to achieve it.
I shall not hide the fact, however, that I am very concerned in this regard.
Since the appearance of the report on the progress achieved by the end of 2004, I have been concerned about the fact that the average annual reduction over the coming years will have to be very much greater than before if the final target is to be achieved.
We do not yet have any final data for 2005, but I expect no greater reduction for that year than for 2004.
If it becomes apparent that the industry is not going to meet its commitments, the Commission - as I have already announced - must step in and propose legal acts to ensure that CO2 emissions are reduced to the level considered necessary.
The Commission is currently reviewing the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars.
The CARS 21 High Level Group recommends the future strategy consist of an integrated approach involving all relevant stakeholders and thus a wide palette of measures.
I consider this approach essential for achieving a further reduction in CO2 emissions from passenger cars at reasonable cost.
A Commission decision on the future strategy is to be adopted at the end of the year.
This strategy will certainly require further progress in automotive engineering.
We are also considering laying down mandatory targets for motor-vehicle fuel efficiency, for example, but other aspects, too, have to be taken into account, such as policy measures to promote the use of low-carbon fuels, and changing driving habits.
Incidentally, we should also pay greater attention to the other two main components of the strategy: labelling of and tax concessions for low CO2 emission vehicles.
It must be said, unfortunately, that these two parts of the strategy have had extremely little effect so far, but I do believe that there is potential for improvement in this regard.
