draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Mr President, much as I would like one quarter of the Commissioner's speaking time to explain the position of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, the unfortunate fact is that I am not going to get it, but I am very grateful for the clear explanations that have been given today, particularly to the rapporteur, Mrs Weiler, who has done something that is not customary in this House by accepting essential points from the proposal of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs in the course of the enhanced cooperation procedure.
We all agree on the line we take, although we do have our differences about such things as paragraph 5, which Mrs Weiler has reinserted by way of Amendment 20.
In the event of a legislative declaration, we will handle it by way of the codecision procedure, as provided for by Article 251.
This was a typical case for the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, in which we found the exact wording only after a vote during which we had sought out a compromise.
We should do things the other way round, and then there will be no differences after the vote either.
In accordance with the position that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has adopted, I would opt for Mrs Weiler's Amendment 21, and my personal view is that we should incorporate this amendment, which envisages the possibility of these criteria being incorporated into Community law, and is therefore preferable to Amendment 20.
I believe that we would be doing the right thing by sticking to our line according to which there would be no new areas excluded from the tendering procedure, with the alternative route of supra-regional communal undertakings being cut off, and no extension being permitted to in-house businesses.
We would, however, like the Commission to clarify the issues thrown up by the ruling in the case of the City of Halle, among other rulings from the ECJ.
What we want, then, Commissioner, is not only a proposal for concessions, but also clarification of the outstanding legal issues relating to institutionalised public-private partnerships.
You, Commissioner, have told us where you stand.
That was clear - laudably so by the standards of a Commission that has again and again avoided taking a decision in recent years - and so we will find an agreed solution that will enable us to move on.
As I finish, I would like once more to thank Mrs Weiler for having done everything she could to achieve an across-the-board position, one that will enable us not only to withstand the rulings of the ECJ, but also to stand firm in the vigorous debates with the associations representing various interests.
