on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by extending my group's thanks to the rapporteur for a really very interesting and also important report, for there is still a lot wrong with the way in which the funds to which the Community is entitled are recovered, particularly in the way in which the Member States go about it, and it is certainly very regrettable that the Council is conspicuous by its absence today.
We can see that more progress has been made since you, Commissioner, took the matter in hand, but I do believe that we will still have to get seriously stuck in to improvements in specific areas over the coming months, particularly in agricultural policy, which is at the heart of the whole recovery issue, and where much is still not as it should be, with 70% of old claims dating back to the period from 1971 to 2002.
We are talking here about EUR 3.1 billion, 70% of which has still not yet been recovered.
The present situation is pretty shameful.
The total recovered amounts to less than one fifth of the EUR 6 billion outstanding in 2002.
The President of the Court of Auditors said recently - and may I say, Mr President, that I object to the timing of this debate, since a very important report is being presented to the Committee on Budgetary Control at this very moment - that recovery was proceeding at an increasing sluggish pace and that the penalties are wholly unsuitable.
The problem lies with the Member States; I believe that all of us here in this House are on the same side and will, come what may, raise the parity of tax demands and claims for the repayment of funds as an issue in the deliberations on the Financial Regulation, for we regard this as vitally important.
It is also important that there should be more support for the auditors who work where these things happen, particularly those who work for national authorities, for they face the possibility of being punished for their own department's failings, and so they need our special protection.
There is another problem within the Commission itself.
Until recently, it was impossible to ascertain just how much was currently outstanding, and I hope that the improved accounting procedures will improve matters.
I will close by saying that we will ensure that this issue stays on the agenda.
