Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say just a few words about the key points of the 2007 Budget, which will be the first under the new Financial Perspective.
I think we have to very seriously ask ourselves whether it makes sense to first, through a laborious and bureaucratic process, extract money from the pockets of citizens and businesses, expend a lot of bureaucratic effort on transporting it to Brussels and then expend even more of the same on distributing it among the Member States.
This is where a great opportunity was missed by reason of the curtailment of the Financial Perspective and the failure to reformulate a plethora of legal bases, so that practically all the multiannual programmes had to be adopted afresh.
In particular, Commissioner Grybauskaitė, I can only urge the Commission to seize the initiative for 2008 and 2009, when we will have to give some thought to the preparatory work for the next Financial Perspective.
The second key point I would like to mention is that the Commission is delegating more and more of its functions to agencies and to executive agencies.
I look forward to the day when the Commission will submit proposals indicating its willingness to take staff back.
We have just completed the biggest round of enlargement in the European Union's history; by 1 January 2007, twelve new Member States will have joined it.
Since many of the tasks it used to perform have been handed over to agencies, the Commission needs fewer staff, and I am waiting for it to produce very definite proposals as to how it is going to make Europe less bureaucratic, something that is not accomplished by what Commissioner Verheugen is doing, namely looking at laws, but by making cuts in personnel so that red tape is not generated in the first place.
I would like to close on a self-critical note with a thought that we might well take away with us, namely that we ourselves need to give rather more thought to our own strategy too.
I think it highly regrettable that we have not done this as much as might be desirable when debates in this House are in the offing.
