Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I wish to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Groote, who comes from the car-making country of Lower Saxony, a German province where many cars are manufactured, which is why he has taken the trouble to consider the industry's point of view as well.
We have heard - and I will not go into detail - that there is a pressing need to act.
This we have done.
By further developing the Euro standards, we have doubtless taken a decisive step in the context of European environmental policy, a step which is also tolerable to the automobile industry.
As has already been mentioned several times, the effects of the Euro standards are extraordinarily positive, so that non-European countries are already orienting themselves to our standards.
I would like to take the example of China as an illustration of this, since I was able to follow that country's development in my role as a member of the China delegation.
Only six weeks ago I gave a lecture at the China Automotive Industry Forum in Shanghai, in which I spoke about European environmental policy activities, which involve dialogue with the automobile industry.
There I learned that, in 2007, China will introduce emissions values which correspond to the Euro 3 standard, thereby reducing emissions of pollutants by 30%.
As soon as 2010 they will reach the next stage, which corresponds to the Euro 4 standard.
One reason for them to use our European environmental standards is certainly the expanding Chinese automobile industry, which wants to compete with our market and which must therefore comply with European standards.
This could be described as a welcome side-effect of the entry hurdles to our market.
I very much welcome this extension of the influence of the Euro standards beyond Europe itself, since, from a global point of view, if Europe were to go it alone with these standards, this would have relatively little effect and it would also reduce our competitiveness.
All of those who are involved have accepted this compromise, and thanks to this being achieved, we can vote tomorrow on a balanced proposal on the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards.
Now, however, it is up to the highly profitable fuel industry to take part more intensively in this process and to improve the environmental compatibility of motor fuels, so that the burden of costly improvements is not borne by the automobile industry alone.
