on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Klaß, Commissioner, that the groundwater directive has not been watered down amounts to a tremendous success, and the proposals now made are a real step in the right direction, although we would, of course, have expected even more.
As we know, 80% of all drinking water is derived from groundwater, but 40% of Europe's groundwater is already polluted.
In Germany, the pollution of rivers in North Rhine-Westphalia and Bavaria through fluorinated tensides has made it abundantly clear in just what peril our number one nutrient now is.
That the groundwater directive now contains a legally binding ban on the introduction of pollutants into groundwater must be counted a success, and it is to be hoped that this will bring in strict and efficient measures for sustainable water protection.
It is cause for rejoicing that Parliament has torn up the 'shopping list' of derogations from second reading, and fortunate that the agricultural lobby's feeble excuses for upper limits on nitrate have been thrown out; even farmers have to comply with the 50 microgram/litre tolerance limit, which is not actually that much to expect of them.
Nitrate is associated with cancer, and it has been found in Germany in concentrations of up to seven times those that are permitted, which makes it abundantly clear just how disturbing the situation is.
If this precious resource of ours is to be effectively protected, what we could actually do with is a limit value of less than 25 micrograms per litre.
Nitrates pollution continues to be the biggest and the most expensive problem where the protection of European groundwater is concerned, and so I regard it as seriously negligent of this House, and the Council too, to fail to push the case for protection against nitrates in order to set ambitious targets for it, but the fact that it has been confirmed and laid down that groundwater is, as such, to be protected, constitutes a major triumph.
We still know too little about the characteristics of our ecosystem, for preventive protection of groundwater is ten times as beneficial as measures to clear up the damage after it has been done, which are, in many cases, impossible.
We need to adopt the groundwater directive, and it must be the starting point for further measures to protect the environment.
In the forthcoming process of producing legislation on pesticides, I shall, in my capacity as rapporteur for the Committee on the Environment, be paying very special attention to the maximum quantities of pesticides in groundwater, for it is important that that be dealt with if the groundwater is to be better protected.
