on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Schlyter, for his constructive cooperation.
It is well known that the two of us do not always see eye to eye, but I welcome the fact that a vote is to be held tomorrow on a compromise that will enable agreement at first reading.
I also welcome the fact that the compromise disregards a number of the demands made by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety such as the precipitate inclusion of PFOA without a prior risk assessment.
The toxicity of PFOS is undisputed, including by industry.
After all, industry took it upon itself to dispense with the use of PFOS in particularly critical applications such as consumer goods.
Some sectors at the top end of the value-added chain, such as the aviation, aerospace and semiconductor industries, cannot dispense with the use of PFOS at present, however.
A ban on PFOS or a derogation involving strict time limits would deprive some high-technology sectors of planning security.
The Commission proposal already lays down appropriate derogations for this, and it is essential that these be retained until there is a suitable substitute.
The problem with PFOS is not the use of the substance in these sectors, however, but the fact that it is still found in old textiles such as carpets and clothing and reaches the environment via these.
I should like to make some concluding remarks on EU chemicals policy with regard to the forthcoming REACH debate.
EU chemicals legislation must strike a balance between the socio-economically appropriate use of certain substances and high environmental standards.
As with PFOS, derogations must always be possible where there are no suitable alternatives.
After all, the objective of chemicals policy must be the safe, risk-based handling of chemicals rather than the ideological policy of complete chemical bans.
I hope that the Commissioner will remain committed to a sound chemicals policy in future, too.
