Mr President, I would like to congratulate Mr Groote on the package that he has worked out with the other shadow rapporteurs.
In my view it certainly could have been more ambitious.
I come from the Tyrol, a region which is very heavily affected by car emissions.
We are faced here with a field of related issues.
We talk about micro-costs which we want the manufacturers to bear, who then try to pass them on to the car buyers.
On the other hand, it is a question of macro-benefits, namely: health.
It is difficult to find the right balance here.
All in all the compromise is sustainable, and, to be honest, what Mrs Pleštinská said is right: in the end it is not just about whether we have strict and high standards; many other factors too have significant effects on actual traffic emissions, as for example the age of vehicles on the road or the way people drive.
Perhaps the Strasbourg colleagues I see driving at 160 km per hour on the motorway might like to take note that the particulate emissions from a Euro 5 vehicle will be considerably higher than if one were to drive at 90 km per hour through the region with a Euro 0 vehicle.
Here we should be quite honest and say, for once, that European industry has done a great deal to ameliorate the problem.
When colleagues claim that the Americans or the Californians are a shining example, then I can only suggest that they should travel over there.
There the standard motor is an old V8 petrol motor, which consumes around 20 litres per 100 km.
If I am supposed to regard California as an example, then, despite the fact that my fellow countryman Mr Schwarzenegger is the governor there, then I must say that that is completely unrealistic.
What we have here is thus a sustainable compromise, and I am saying this as a Tyrolean, as someone who finds it particularly hard to express it in these terms.
I also say this for the benefit of the Commission, since it is important that we try together to push the whole package through and also that we try to have stricter standards in future.
Overall, though, it is important to take a sweeping approach to the problem, and not just to focus on one aspect of it.
