on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report by Mrs Kratsa-Tsagaropoulou - for which I am grateful - puts plenty wind in the sails of women's rights, particularly the rights of women immigrants, and that was long overdue.
We have for too long taken an attitude of cultural relativism towards women immigrants for granted.
I am glad to see that the report incorporates many of the things we have been pressing for, such as the requirement that instances of genital mutilation be reported and that there be penalties, if necessary under criminal law for forced marriages, which have been long overdue.
I hope we will also be able to get language courses for migrant women made compulsory, for language is an important component in integration and, without them, they will be unable to avail themselves of their rights.
We must put a stop to the situation in which girls from families that have migrated to Europe are exempted sex education classes and sports, which are mandatory for others, and in which some of them are even taken out of school or forbidden to go there.
We need to be very determined about this and speak out about it loud and clear.
We also see it as very important that women should acquire a legal status independent of that of their husbands, and it is on this point that I would like to address Commissioner Frattini personally, for I recently, in a written question, asked to be informed as to whether he shared my concern about the series of court rulings in various Member States that, in the way in which they accord state benefits, effectively endorse polygamy.
I was quite horrified to be told, by a Commissioner with responsibility for justice matters, that the object of polygamy was the protection of women.
Bigamy is prohibited in Europe, and I would welcome an answer from the Commissioner, for I cannot imagine that he would knowingly allow it to be stated that polygamy was intended to protect women, whilst certain forms of same-sex partnership are outlawed.
