on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to all my fellow Members who have cooperated on this difficult dossier; above all Mrs Fourtou, who has fought her way through this complex set of rules with great success.
The rapporteur for our group, Mr Heaton-Harris, unfortunately cannot be here today, and so, as the coordinator with competence for this dossier, I shall be speaking on his behalf and that of the group today, if I may.
The Community Customs Code is an extremely important project, which will remove persisting hurdles in the European internal market and, particularly with regard to piracy and intellectual property, has global significance.
For example, it enables centralised clearance at an enterprise's headquarters, which is important to the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, in particular.
I think that this report on the Modernised Customs Code helps to simplify existing customs procedures and will also help to improve the competitiveness of European enterprises.
I should like to focus on just a few points.
From the outset, one critical point was Article 14 on authorised economic operators, about which Mrs Fourtou has spoken.
I think that the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection has reached a good compromise on this, one which gives these persons greater freedom in the performance of their activities.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will therefore withdraw its Amendment 57 and support the compromise reached in the Committee on Internal Market.
This compromise makes clear that we want our enterprises to enjoy greater freedom, and we should also communicate to the outside world that the regulations of the Modernised Customs Code have been drawn up for our enterprises and in their favour.
The Community Customs Code will not be an obstacle to greater competitiveness.
Finally, I should like to highlight and champion the amendment to Article 125 that was tabled by Mr Heaton-Harris on behalf of our group.
This article enables Member States to introduce simplifications beyond the scope of the Customs Code, within the framework of bilateral or multinational agreements.
The old Customs Code already included the possibility of closer cooperation, and so this possibility is already being used in practice.
It would be detrimental to our enterprises if we were to now abolish this framework, and I believe that that also accords well with the thoughts of Mr Audy.
