draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me say, as spokesman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, how pleased I am that our position, which was accepted with only two persons voting against it, is largely reflected in the report voted on by the Committee on Culture and Education, so many thanks to Mrs Hieronymi for that achievement.
In the last few weeks in particular, we worked successfully on keeping the country-of-origin principle at full strength, and I am of course grateful to all those who had a hand in this, for it is this principle that underpins the directive, and it is in the interests of a functioning internal market that we should not go soft on it.
I take the view that the opening up and liberalisation in respect of advertising is essential if our dual-system media landscape is to be preserved together with the free reception of advertising-funded television.
If this liberalisation is to be accomplished, then what is needed is the suspension of the requirement that commercials be grouped together in blocks, along with the abolition of the rule that requires thirty minutes between advertising spots in television and cinema films, in children's' and news programmes, and also for product placement to be allowed.
Product placement is a controversial issue, and I think that its being permitted subject to tight constraints is the only way to go forward; banning it would be unrealistic.
A scientific study has confirmed that product placement, even though banned in many Member States, still goes on, and, moreover, any ban would push European investors towards the American market.
I believe that the positive list can be a way of offering a balanced solution that takes account of the way things are at present.
Another core aspect of the directive, alongside the liberalisation of the rules on advertising, is the rearrangement of its scope; as we know, televised material can now be received over the Internet and mobile telephones as well, and to deal with this, we have opted for a technical approach that guarantees that the developments and platforms of the future will be taken into account as well.
Provided that the plenary takes these essential items on board when it votes, we will be able to face with confidence the challenges of the age of digital media while at the same time maintaining European televisual culture, which is so great a good.
