draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - Mr President, I would first of all like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their solid cooperation.
The Euro 5 Regulation will ensure two things in the future: firstly, that independent repair shops have unimpeded access to the repair information they need, and, secondly, ambitious emission limit values for modern passenger cars which will lead to better air quality.
Effective health protection and promoting small and medium-sized enterprises - these are goals which I wholeheartedly support.
For this reason I will be voting for the compromise which we have negotiated with the Council.
On the first point, access to repair information, the following should be noted: modern passenger cars are equipped with a plethora of electronically steered car components.
These cannot be repaired without particular information from the car manufacturer.
Independent repair shops therefore require access to this information.
This is also important for consumers.
In future they can decide which repair shop to take a car to for repairs or for servicing.
This promotes competition and so it also leads to lower prices.
In my view, however, our ultimate goal should be to integrate the regulation of access to repair information into the new type verifying framework directive.
Legally and thematically, that would be a better place for the rules than a Regulation on emission limit values.
In this respect I am pleased to say that the Council has adopted our idea that we have developed in the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection.
Just a brief remark about the second point, the new emission limit values.
The new limit values make soot particle filters almost mandatory.
This is an important step towards better air quality.
It is also right that the new Euro 6 limit values should be laid down even now, for that gives car manufacturers the security to plan ahead and to invest, thereby promoting innovation.
Tomorrow we will adopt a Euro 5 Regulation which stands for improved health protection and which at the same time strengthens small and medium-sized enterprises.
