Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it was a hard task.
We started work on it two and a half years ago.
The legislative period was not the most auspicious for getting agreement at first reading, but I believe we have brought the dossier to a good conclusion.
I would like to begin by thanking my colleagues, because we had a very open debate in committee and found that the issue was not so much party political differences as traditions.
My special thanks go to those colleagues who largely backed the project despite the sensitivities in their own countries.
I would also like to thank the Council, because both the Finnish and Austrian Presidencies and not least the Luxembourg Presidency, which created the basis for the compromise, have helped to make it possible for us to reach a good conclusion tomorrow.
Commissioner, I too should like to thank you because you yourself, as well as your team, have done a very good job of supporting this project.
I am particularly keen to emphasise the expertise that has been shown by the members of your administration in dealing with this very complex matter and that has led us to what I believe are worthwhile solutions.
I believe the challenges with this directive can be summarised as follows:
Firstly, we thought it was important not to create an additional driving licence, the 111th or 130th, but, over a period of time, to introduce a single European one.
That was to be seen more as a symbol, however, because when driving licences are exchanged we really wanted a record to be made of the licences in circulation and to have documentation so that we know precisely how many driving licences are in circulation in the various countries and who owns them, so that information can be exchanged.
Ultimately it was also about road safety, and there was a particular need for action here in the area of motorcycles.
We achieved that, too.
Moreover, the directive also strikes a good balance between economic viability on the one hand and safety on the other, especially where caravans are concerned.
These common challenges resulted in a common position.
In six years' time, countries will introduce the new driving licence model for new applications.
That will gradually affect 300 million citizens.
But its value for those citizens is more than merely symbolic.
It was this added value that persuaded us all.
We see an improvement in mobility.
A single driving licence that is recognised everywhere will see the end of the problems over the recognition of acquired rights in the various countries, not only for tourists but for professional drivers as well.
That will now be secured once and for all with this proposal.
Legal certainty is one of our most important concerns, and we have created it with this project.
Since this is a compromise, we have to speak about deadlines.
Personally, I would of course have been very glad if everything, both the initial exchange and the regular exchange procedure, had been completed within ten years.
However, some countries insisted that the time allowed for this definitive exchange should be 20 years.
I am rather philosophical here on the principle of better late than never.
I do hope, though, that it will happen rather sooner than the deadline provided in the directive.
In my opinion, safety remains one of the most important aspects.
We have focussed on two important areas here: firstly, the prevention of 'driving licence tourism'.
If countries show good will, the data held in different countries can be used to prevent driving licence tourism when licences are withdrawn, restricted or suspended.
We believe that a person who is a hazard on the road in one country must also be banned from driving in the other 26 countries.
The foundation has been laid; we are waiting for a clear sign from the Member States here.
A second important safety point was in relation to motorcycles.
The principle of progressive access to large motorcycles, which may perhaps in time also be expected in other areas, is based on the accident statistics, which are unfortunately not so good where motorcycles are concerned; it is also a good combination of theory and practice.
Theory first and then practice will make access easy.
In the area of caravans, a good balance was found between economy and safety.
I am pleased that the Commission has accepted our proposal.
We have not only required the additional B+E driving licence for mobile homes and caravans, but also, above a certain weight, a small test.
In conclusion I would say that, thanks to the close cooperation between the three institutions, and also between my fellow-Members of this House, this directive represents added value for the public: greater legal certainty, improved road safety, more mobility, less driving licence tourism and also a plus for the economy and tourism.
Over all, I therefore believe that with this report we have set an example of the pragmatism that is possible in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
