Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I think that the Lahti summit represents an important step forward.
I hope that the spirit of Lahti that you invoked will - as Mr Schulz said - also bring real, concrete results.
Mr Barroso, you have made a foreign policy proposal in the field of energy policy that I very much welcome - you have my full support.
I would just ask you to stand firm when certain countries once again shy away when they realise that perhaps they do not want these common energy and foreign policies after all.
I would also ask Mr Vanhanen to say the same thing to the members of his Council.
The decisions that have been taken here - and I have heard some very positive reports of the discussions in Lahti - now need to be implemented.
It is the only way that we will be able to defend our interests.
Dependency on Russia has been mentioned, but we really should bear in mind that Russia is also dependent on the European Union, on its consumption of crude oil and natural gas, precisely because the pipelines almost all lead solely to the European Union.
We should therefore go into these negotiations and discussions with pride and self-confidence, and not be afraid to bring up certain subjects.
Particularly in this area, we should establish an interdependence, including, of course, those regions that you mentioned, Mr Barroso, and which we should not forget, such as Ukraine and other countries in the Black Sea region, particularly Turkey.
We must draw up a joint policy with them, too.
Then we will be able to establish a true partnership with Russia.
With regard to the disputes, we must not forget that, in our relations with Russia, particularly in the future partnership agreement, we also need a clear dispute resolution procedure.
Conflicts may arise at any time, and we will not always be able to avoid them in future, so we must have a dispute resolution procedure like in the World Trade Organisation, so that we can ultimately resolve these matters mutually or through an independent mediator.
Our goal is partnership.
As Mr Schultz has already said, it is quite clear that Mr Putin is a strong man.
Many Russians see that as a positive thing, but when the European Union is united it is stronger than Mr Putin.
Then we will really be able to achieve a good, appropriate and equal partnership.
(Applause)
