on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my very warm gratitude to the rapporteur for his constructive cooperation.
We have achieved a great success; the directive on the placing on the market of pyrotechnic articles can be adopted tomorrow at first reading, and we have indeed already reached agreement with the Council.
This directive draws together the 25 different sets of legislation governing explosives within the European Union.
This means that we have done away with another little bit of bureaucracy.
Through this directive, we will be a large step closer to realising the internal market for the trade in fireworks, airbags and other pyrotechnic products.
There will no longer be a need for special products to be manufactured for each Member State, which will give rise to enormous cost savings.
The industry can now focus on meeting uniform requirements across Europe.
I have been calling, in particular, for a simplified procedure for those who use fireworks professionally.
The aim of this simplified procedure is for the manufacturers or importers of fireworks for professional use to implement their own quality assurance systems.
The manufacturers or importers will, however, continue to be subject to regular monitoring by competent authorities.
In this way, we have given more responsibility in this area back to the businesses, thereby avoiding excessive bureaucracy.
We were able to introduce specific regulations for the field of automotive engineering, which includes airbags and seatbelt pretensioners.
This area, in particular, requires high safety standards without overlaying these with requirements for the labelling of airbags that are built into vehicles anyway.
It is, in particular, the consumers, and I would like to emphasise this point, who will benefit from the new directive, as it affords them improved levels of safety.
There have been a handful of very serious accidents with fireworks due to the differing safety requirements of the Member States.
A procedure is now being introduced according to which safety requirements will be just as high in every Member State.
Tomorrow, through the vote on the fireworks directive, we will realise the internal market in this area, whilst at the same time providing greater safety levels for consumers.
