Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would now, just a few weeks before Romania and Bulgaria join us, like to congratulate those two countries.
They are welcome!
This has to do with overcoming the division of Europe; it is a victory of democracy and the rule of law over dictatorship, the victory of the democratic Europe over the past century's men of violence, over Hitler and Stalin, over Zhivkov and Ceausescu.
While it is in that context that we have to see it, the job must nevertheless be done in a properly craftsmanlike manner if it is to work.
That is why it is important to remember that there are such things as transitional rules on such things as, inter alia, the free movement of labour, involving the same process as was used in the other enlargement treaties.
Transitional rules of this kind do not constitute discrimination against the countries in question; they are always to the benefit of both parties.
That is the most normal thing in the world, and the safeguard clauses are an addition to them.
I am very grateful to the Commissioner for informing this House that these safeguard clauses will actually be applied in the areas stated, just as they already, in fact, are being applied in certain areas, such as milk and meat, and, should it become necessary in such areas as law and internal affairs or in the use to which funds are put, the safeguard clauses can - as the Commissioner said, be applied immediately.
We will take him at his word.
This, again, does not indicate mistrust of the two countries in question; on the contrary, it is a perfectly normal way of going about things.
It is for this reason that this House will implement the monitoring process that remains an option until three years after accession, and so I do not doubt that we will get it all together and form a strong European Union.
I would like to take this opportunity to remind the House that, following the accession of these two countries, the debate on the European Union's capacity for further enlargement will be of crucial importance.
It is a debate that we need to take seriously if we are to be able to complete the political project of enabling the EU to take effective action.
