Madam President, there are two points in this work programme that I want to say something about; one has to do with basic freedoms and the other with civic participation in the European Union.
Reference has frequently been made in this debate to the problem inherent in the lack of any preferences or priorities on the part of the Commission in the field of basic freedoms and third pillar, a problem that we need, firstly, to address as a matter of urgency, before, secondly, establishing the cause of the lack of political will.
Reference has been made to the fact that Mr Barroso, at the beginning of this legislative period, set up a working party made up of Commissioners and tasked with addressing the issue of basic freedoms.
I find myself wondering what this working party has been up to over the last two years, since no report has been forthcoming.
So have they been doing nothing?
Drinking coffee?
In all seriousness, though, we must, if we are to take this subject seriously, know what is to be discussed in this context.
What I find worthy of criticism about this work programme is the fact that - in parallel with the efforts by G6 states to do something about legal migration and by the few states gathered around the Federal Republic of Germany that have launched the Prüm Convention - parallel structures are developing into a third pillar outside the third pillar without the Commission - whose role as guardian of treaties is about more than making laws - intervening or making any kind of forthright public comment.
The fact is that, if we are to act on the judicial and police cooperation front, we have to do so within the framework set for us by the Treaties.
Since my time is running out, I will conclude with a brief point, which is that, on page 10 of the programme on civic involvement is written, in English, the following - and I quote:
'This includes a commitment to listen and to deliver.'
We have done so.
We have handed one million signatures to the Commission and the Council concerning the seat of Parliament.
Two-and-a-half months on, we have yet to receive a reply.
I believe that, as far as 'listen and deliver' is concerned, the ball is now in the Commission's court.
