on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as the President-in-Office of the Council said, we have to look to the future, and it is precisely that, I believe, that we have to do today - to look to the future, not only of the European Union, but also of Europe and of the world as a whole.
As a rule, the best presidencies are those that do not do anything spectacular, but work away with good will and determination, and we know that the Finnish Presidency has been particularly good at doing that.
I hope that, tomorrow and the day after at the Brussels Summit - for which the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will be preparing tomorrow afternoon - it will prove possible to lay down some guidelines on enlargement.
The last thing that the President of the Commission said was a call to us to send out the message that we hold to our undertakings.
We are also open to those countries which, in the very ordinary way of things, have a claim on eventual membership of the European Union, and that means not only Croatia, but also the whole Balkan region, although there are of course conditions applicable to them.
We have to discharge our obligations; pacta sunt servanda - and that means by both parties.
I would very much like to thank you, Mr President of the Commission, and the Commission itself for your far-sightedness, your steadfastness and also the fairness, that you have brought to the issue of Turkey, for there we have a narrow path to tread, without risking any confrontation, any really serious dispute, between Turkey and the European Union, although, on the other hand, if Turkey fails to meet its obligations - as in the case of Cyprus, where it has promised to resolve the problem and recognise the customs union, but has not done so - we may not accept this in a spirit of resignation, but must, for the sake of our own credibility, send out a message that makes our position clear.
If we had sent no signal to Turkey, we would have lost faith in ourselves, and who, then, would put any trust in the European Union?
It is for that reason that what the Commission has proposed to do about this, which the foreign ministers have accepted, shows such a high degree of responsibility and has resulted in a sound compromise.
It is now for the European Union to acquire a capacity for integration.
I am grateful to the Finnish Presidency of the Council for having, in many bilateral conversations, raised the question of how we can resolve the Constitution issue.
I was glad when Mrs Lehtomäki said that it was obvious that all governments were agreed on the need for reform.
That constitutes fundamental assent to the content of the constitutional treaty.
I would like to say, calmly and on behalf of the European People's Party element in our group, that we need the reforms described in Part 1 to be made reality, and we also need to see laid down that which is, so to speak, the legal foundation of our values, namely that which is set out in Part 2.
Quite apart from anything else, all this has already been adopted in Nice in the form of a Charter, and turning it into binding law should not present any problems.
For us in the European People's Party, what we want to achieve is dependent on that.
It might perhaps be said that thanking the Commission now is a bit too much of a good thing, but where such things are justified, they have to be said.
It was the President of the Commission who suggested adopting, on 25 March, a Joint Declaration by the European Council, the European Parliament and the Commission; we think this is a very good thing and are all in favour of it, and what we have to say to the governments is that, if anyone is opposed to this House's involvement, they will have a problem on their hands in the shape of our group at the least, for we want a Joint Declaration that commits us to reforms and gives expression to our values.
I would like to add a final thought on a subject of which we will have to become more aware, namely climate change.
We may well be free to do as we please on this earth, but, if our climate changes in a way that imperils us and impoverishes large areas, then our political efforts will avail us nothing; it is for that reason that this House and the other institutions must make climate change a priority issue.
I wish the President of the Council, the President of the Commission, and of course our own President, who will, as always, have an active part to play, every success at the Council in terms of our joint efforts and of the Europe in which we all share.
