Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, there is no doubt about it: where our relations with Russia are concerned, we are in a very tricky position.
The murder of Mrs Politkovskaya may be the most recent, but it is not the only one, for such things are not a particularly rare occurrence.
That is something that embarrasses us, but it should embarrass Russia even more - much more, in fact.
I would like to say something about three problem areas in which our relations with Russia are beset with difficulties.
Firstly, as already mentioned, there is human rights and freedom of opinion.
What we find particularly regrettable is that Russia does not realise that it is itself harmed by the abuse of freedom of opinion and of human rights that goes on within it.
These things may perhaps harm us as well by interfering with our relations with Russia, but it is Russia itself that is most harmed, in that it is hindered from developing in a positive and democratic way.
Secondly, there is the neighbourhood policy, and, while we are not, today, discussing South Ossetia and Transnistria, it is nonetheless also the case that we in the European Union find Russia's policy in respect of its neighbours unacceptable.
It is not acceptable that it should be Russia that decides what is to become of the peoples of South Ossetia or of Transnistria.
That is for the people who live there to decide for themselves, and they must decide that freely rather than under duress or in response to military pressure - perhaps even exerted by Russia, and so we will have to speak in quite frank terms to Russia about this.
Lastly, there is the energy issue, and, while I agree with all those who have spoken out in favour of a common energy policy - as, indeed, the President of the Commission did quite plainly and unmistakeably - I wonder how many of those who applaud today would have applauded if we had said, a year ago, that we needed a common energy policy.
And will they all applaud when they are told that they, too, need to rearrange their own preferences in line with one?
The fact is that, while we are demanding a common energy policy, nothing has yet been said about what it should be like, and, when we start doing something about improving energy efficiency, developing alternative forms of energy and taking the appropriate action in transport and housing, there will be many who will get up and say, 'no, that was not what we meant'.
Back to Russia, though.
Our problem today is that relations between the EU and Russia where energy policy is concerned are unbalanced, that Russia - under Putin - is, unfortunately making energy policy more and more into a political power issue rather than doing as we do and treating it as an economic factor, and if we want to do business with Russia, it really does have to be only on condition that we and it negotiate together as equal partners.
One thing that Russia must bear in mind is that the energy reserves - the gas reserves in particular - are running out; they will not be exhausted today, but they will be in eight or ten years' time, perhaps lasting as long as twelve, and the question arises of what Russia will do then.
It is also in Russia's own interests that it should be aware of the fact that it needs our technology, our know-how and our money, and that it should therefore work at building up a relationship of equality where energy policy is concerned.
If we, on energy issues, deal with one another as equals, we will also arrive at the right solutions.
If we do not, then it is not just the European Union that will suffer the consequences, but Russia as well.
It follows that Russia should recognise where its real, long-term interests lie.
It has much to learn from dialogue with us, with the European Union.
