Mr President, it is my belief that, with the official statement from the Commission, the last legal uncertainties in relation to particular aspects such as, inter alia, labour law and social security legislation, have been cleared up.
I now therefore feel able to recommend to the House that it should adopt the Common Position as presented to us by the Council of Ministers without making any amendments, excepting of course the three amendments relating to the comitology procedure on which we have agreed among ourselves.
I think that we, in this House, have performed very well, and I would like, once again, to thank the Commission and the Presidency of the Council for having accepted our text almost unaltered.
There is one more point I would like to make, however, and it is one that is just a little unpleasant.
I would like to recommend to the present and to future Presidencies of the Council that they should desist from the sort of behaviour we have seen from them thus far.
It is not acceptable for the Presidency to constantly repeat during a second reading that it is not possible to discuss the issue further and for it not to accept amendments that Parliament wants because a fragile compromise has been achieved in Council.
A similarly fragile compromise was brokered in this House too, and it is important to ensure that the rights of Parliament, the Council of Ministers and the Commission are given full expression in the course of codecision.
For this reason, the way things have come to pass on this occasion cannot serve as a template for future legislative processes.
I have accepted it this time because 90% of Parliament's text was adopted and because we in this House did not suffer any great losses.
This will not always be the case, however.
When that happens, the Council must not say 'no' and insist that no more discussion is possible on this issue.
That is not constructive cooperation and I truly hope that this will be an isolated example and that, in future, we will again be able to enjoy normal cooperation in the codecision process.
(Applause)
