on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, many thanks for that level-headed report: the problem lasted an hour, and then it was sorted out.
That, too, is an argument worth mentioning.
Secondly, like you, I take the view that a full report needs to be produced first in order that we do not arrive at premature answers about all the things that might have gone wrong.
Thirdly, we politicians must face up to the question as to whether the approach we take might be somewhat contradictory: on the one hand, we call for more investment in electricity grids, while, on the other, we threaten the grid operators with the unbundling of their property.
Nobody can be expected to invest in networks when they are, at the same time, facing the threat of those same networks being taken off them; that can hardly be regarded as logical.
Fourthly, at the same time as we call for more and more renewable energy, we know that wind power contributes to the reliability of the grids being a very real problem.
I have nothing against wind power, but nobody should be surprised when problems of this sort occur.
Fifthly, we demand - and rightly too - more connection points, because we want electricity to be transmitted from one country to another.
Right though it is that we should want that, we are, perhaps, paying too little attention to the need to ensure that, at the same time or as a prior requirement, the grids before and after the connection points are adequately prepared.
One consequence I would like to see resulting from this occurrence is our handling energy policy issues in a more realistic and down-to-earth way, without making contradictory demands that can never be met.
Perhaps that is a contribution that we will be able to make; whether or not we do so, I look forward to a precise evaluation once the facts are before us, and then we will be able to consider what the political consequences must be - if any.
Much of what was said in the days following the power failure was precipitate and resulted not so much from in-depth analysis of the event but rather more from a momentary snapshot of what happened.
I am much obliged to you, Commissioner Piebalgs, for what you are doing.
