Mr President, there are people in Russia - officials in particular - who, if they are listening to us, will get the idea that all we in this House want to do this week is bait the Russian bear.
That is not what we want to do, but we do want to make it quite clear to Russia that we should try to resolve the problems that present themselves to us, ranging from energy to the neighbourhood we share, that we should do this together, and that Russia should confirm its commitment to multilateralism.
When criticising America, we are often united when it comes to the unilateralism of that country's actions, but, when a country takes action in its own backyard, it needs to do so multilaterally, and Russia has recently opted for a different approach, and that is absolutely unacceptable.
Firstly, we do, of course, need help from the countries involved.
As we said the last time we visited it, we would like to see Georgia sign the commitment to non-violence.
It is surely not enough to say 'we want to be able to defend ourselves', for that, of course, is something everyone is entitled to do.
Secondly, we would like to see a definite offer made as regards the reintegration into Georgian society of the people of South Ossetia, and of Abkhazia too, for, while we are committed to the concept of a single, undivided Georgia, we do believe that that has to involve specific things being offered to these sections of its population.
Even so, the main responsibility lies, just as it did before, with Russia.
I find it incomprehensible how Russia has still not yet grasped that you do not make friends by supporting small separatist movements, some of which have been infiltrated by criminals, but rather by helping your neighbours to maintain their stability, and that is something that Georgia would surely be equally willing to do.
What we absolutely must reject, though, is the expulsion of Georgians from Russia; Arguing along the lines of 'yes, but they're illegals' has a cynical ring to it.
Expelling the Georgians - especially at a time like this, considering the things that have happened - is every bit as inopportune in terms of timing as the energy price rises in Ukraine before the elections and in Belarus after them.
It is absolutely indefensible and unacceptable.
