on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is evident that the Commission is pressing on with the policy that deeply divided European society last year.
Were the riots in the suburbs of Paris not warning enough?
Having seen them, we in Europe surely cannot continue with a policy that writes off some members of our society.
How, having had this experience, is it possible that the Commission should seek, in the new work programme, to address social issues quite separately from the growth strategy?
Why is it abandoning the former consensus according to which social inclusion policy was part of the Lisbon Strategy and hence an expression of social cohesion?
Are we, in future, to have a state of affairs in which everyone will no longer be allowed, irrespective of where they live or of their social status, to share in Europe's economic successes and in its prosperity?
Our group does not accept such a thing.
It does not accept that people such as those in the banlieues of Paris should no longer be allowed to benefit from Europe's strategy for prosperity, for a policy of social division will demand a high price from all of us.
The work programme, lamentably, perpetuates this general trend.
As well as the one-sided Lisbon Strategy, the Gothenburg strategy is also to be treated in isolation, with economic growth being treated as having higher priority than sustainable development in what is a completely backward-looking policy that represents the selling out of our living resources and amounts to writing off our rural areas, thus abandoning the interconnection of our economic, social and environmental goals.
How does the Commission justify using ear-marking within the structural funds as a means of taking money away from territorial cohesion and sustainable development for all regions and making policy only for prosperous cities and thriving economic hubs, while many European regions, the young people in the banlieues, and their counterparts in rural areas, are treated as less important?
That will not do.
Sustainable development must be brought back to the heart of European politics.
