rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the number of Members present in this plenary is certainly no indication of the importance of this issue, and the 'Youth in Action' programme for the period from 2007 to 2013 is certainly a milestone for our young European fellow-citizens.
I would like to thank the Commission and the Council for their very constructive cooperation.
At first reading stage, we worked through 58 amendments, most of which found their way into the draft, and it is through this result of informal negotiations that we now arrive at the Common Position, which we are able to accept and on which we are able to agree at second reading.
Working both with and for young people aged between 15 and 18, the perhaps some 170 million citizens who are the European Union's primary concern, all three institutions have endeavoured to find a solution that makes Europe real for them, that helps to make the programme less bureaucratic and makes access to it easier for disadvantaged young people.
We have, with this programme, had a number of general objectives in mind.
First among them is the fostering of citizenship.
We want to make it easier for young people to work together as members of society while also offering them the opportunity to cooperate at European level, thereby, among other things, overcoming voter apathy and awakening in them an interest in politics.
Secondly, we want to promote solidarity and tolerance among young people, particularly as a means towards greater social cohesion in the EU.
In this way, it will be possible for young people, together, to develop new lifestyles and models of coexistence.
We want to promote mutual understanding between young people and the multicultural diversity that we in Europe treasure.
We also want to promote systems for supporting youth organisations and young people's civil society organisations and cohesion among young people even beyond Europe's borders.
It is with those purposes in mind that we have negotiated a budget of EUR 885 million.
In my capacity as rapporteur, I have proposed the submission of minimum budgets for the following five headings.
Of the funding available, 30% is to go to the traditional youth exchange 'Youth for Europe'.
The object of 'European Voluntary Service' is involvement, for a period of between two and twelve months, in non-profit-making activity for the common good in a country other than one's own, and this project is to receive 23% of the funds.
'Youth for the World' is a new project intended to awaken understanding of other peoples in a spirit of openness, which is very important at various levels, and to which 6% of overall resources are to be allocated.
The 'support systems for youth' are to receive at least 15%; by this is meant the European Youth Forum and the network of youth organisations and persons active in this field whom it supports.
It is intended that 4% of the funds should go to support European cooperation among young people, which would amount to the dividing up of 76% of the sectors, and that would offer the Commission sufficient flexibility to become more actively involved where necessary.
Facing up to challenges is the right approach.
We have the funds to support the special project 'European Youth Week', and we want the Pact for European Youth, concluded by the Council in 2005, to come alive.
It cannot be acceptable that we should look on and do nothing while disorder breaks out among young people and while young people in the European Union lack jobs and prospects.
We must ensure that young people have something to look forward to, and we want the Member States to give these projects their wholehearted support, for we cannot deal with the problem on our own.
I am therefore appealing to the Member States to get stuck in.
I recommend that this House agree to the compromise we have arrived at and adopt the Common Position unamended.
