Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on 23 January 2006, the Commission presented its Communication on a Community Action Plan on the Protection and Welfare of Animals 2006-2010.
The report I drew up on this Communication as rapporteur for this House was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 12 September.
The objective of the Action Plan on the Protection and Welfare of Animals is to bring together Community activities previously spread across different Commission services, councils and policy areas and to structure them in accordance with uniform guidelines.
Animal protection is an emotional, extremely politically sensitive issue.
Such protection - appropriate to the specific needs and requirements of the respective animals - should be a matter of course in our civil society.
On this basis, it is important to me as rapporteur that we establish a uniform level of animal protection in the EU.
The Commission has emphasised time and again that the EU's animal-protection standards, which are already high and are set to be improved still further, are an example to the world.
A large majority in the committee supported my emphasis on the need for precise impact assessments in the case of all legislative measures on animal protection.
In addition, it is only consistent to demand these high animal-protection standards in negotiations with the WTO and in bilateral agreements.
Genuine animal protection cannot be restricted to farmed animals and animals used in experiments, but must cover all animals.
In addition, the progress that has been made must be taken into account.
Many of my fellow Members, and many people who have written to me, are particularly concerned about animals used in experiments.
The scientific research sector has significantly stepped up its efforts to protect animals in recent years, however.
A large number of alternatives to animal testing have been developed in order to translate the 3Rs principle into practice.
Even though there is still a long way to go on this, I do think that we are moving in the right direction.
The report supports endeavours to replace animal testing with alternative methods on the basis of further research.
For this reason, we are making consistent calls for resources to be made available under the Seventh Research Framework Programme, too.
Precise scientifically based animal-protection indicators are the most reliable basis for the further development of viable animal protection.
This baseline report for the 2006-2010 period is not intended to detail any specific individual measures.
We do not support any amendments calling for the non-binding application of voluntary animal-protection standards at national level.
The report makes an emphatic call for proper application and enforcement of the existing rules on animal protection, for example in the field of animal transport.
We welcome the proposed ban on imports of cat and dog fur and call for decisive action to restrict the trade in seal products.
The need for accession countries to adapt their legislation as a matter of urgency has been emphasised.
In addition, we strongly support a simple, compulsory 'EU label' for animal protection.
There are 14 amendments.
We support Amendments 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 12 and 14 but cannot support Amendments 1, 9, 10 or 13.
We have requested split voting on paragraphs 5, 7a, 29, 54 and 71.
To the Commissioner I would say that Commissioner Kyprianou is currently in Brazil, where I am sure he will praise European animal-protection standards.
I hope that he will also speak about the deficiencies in agricultural products imported into the EU from Brazil that have been detected once again by the EU Food and Veterinary Office.
European agriculture and European consumers suffer as a result of distortions of competition.
The European animal protection standards that are being called for must also have a positive impact on our competitiveness.
I am much obliged to the Commissioner, and I am obliged to all my fellow Members for their constructive cooperation.
