Mr President, Commissioners, members of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are in the midst of a long debate on the greatest legislative initiative this Parliament has ever had to come to grips with.
My compliments to Mr Sacconi on his work.
As the previous speakers have demonstrated, the text may be voluminous, but it remains open to a very broad interpretation.
This proposal bears the clear imprint of Parliament.
There has been a marked change in the world of chemicals and the faith in their safety since Seveso and Bhopal.
The fact that all the previous speakers welcome the compromise only with reservations is proof that it is relatively balanced.
Now, however, the Council and the Commission are called upon to start up a functional, powerful Agency as quickly as possible.
This will cost money and generate red tape.
The Agency is the key to the functioning of REACH.
The recruitment of sufficient numbers of the relevant experts represents a challenge.
The Agency must work quickly, accurately and without making mistakes so as to improve the reputation of REACH as a model for other states and associations of states.
In my opinion, the issue of intellectual property has been sufficiently regulated.
We shall have to monitor carefully whether we can live with the present form of substitution in the long run, and we shall have to monitor just as carefully the strain the legislative procedure puts on small and medium-sized enterprises.
Only when all aspects are equally successful will REACH have met the requirements arising from the Lisbon process.
REACH must not degenerate into a typecase that is still not full even after two or three decades; Europe will have to be judged on its implementability.
With regard to the overlapping fields, I would make a plea for the deletion of medical devices, as these rules are congruous and adequate in themselves, and leaving medical devices in would mean incalculable delays in the authorisation of medicinal products.
We shall consider in due course whether the present function of REACH is adequate, and whether the rules are too strict or too lax.
We must not use comitology to withdraw from involvement in further developments, but rather must monitor application regularly and with a critical eye.
