author. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is important that this House, rather than averting its eyes from violations of human rights anywhere in the world, should take action in response to them, and the dreadful things that happened in Andijan in Uzbekistan in May 2005 were another case in point; we are a democratic institution and, as such, must not allow human rights to be trampled underfoot anywhere in the world.
Nor, too, however, must we allow cooperation between this House and other parliaments to put diplomatic relations at risk.
When considering the present state of affairs in Uzbekistan, what has gone on there in the past must also be taken into account, and it is on that alone that this resolution must be founded.
Last month, the delegation for relations with the countries of Central Asia - of which I am a member - planned to travel to Uzbekistan.
That nothing came of this plan was not down to any lack of cooperation on the part of the Uzbek authorities, but rather to the lack of interest in any such trip on the part of sufficient Members of this House.
One consequence of this is that we have not been able to form our own impressions of the current state of play in Uzbekistan as regards human rights, democratisation and the establishment of an independent judiciary, and we have been obliged, instead, to rely on information from third parties.
Do not misunderstand me: I, too, take the view that human rights and attempts at democratisation often suffer repression in Uzbekistan, and that serious thought must therefore be given to keeping sanctions in place, particularly the embargo on weaponry, but I do not think that extending the sanctions to include such things as the denial of an EU visa to the President of Uzbekistan, Islam Karimov, would do anything to get us closer to what we want.
To do such things would amount to breaking off diplomatic relations, and that cannot be what we have in mind.
Nothing happening at the present time would justify such a forceful political response, and so I must ask you, as a matter of the greatest urgency, to endorse the amendment I have tabled and vote for its adoption.
Should I fail in this attempt at a compromise, I will end up having to vote against the resolution.
