Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my gratitude to the rapporteur, Mr Groote, for his tireless efforts.
He has made it possible for us to reach an agreement with the Council at the very first reading.
I would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and of course the Finnish Council Presidency for the efforts which have enabled us to bring this difficult matter to a conclusion so soon.
The three Institutions have worked together constructively.
We now have a proposal on the table which lays down strict emissions values for the next ten years and which simultaneously creates clarity and incentives for technological innovations.
As well as being the result of communal efforts, these proposals are also based upon a thorough impact assessment which has confirmed the technical and financial feasibility of the proposals.
This proposed Regulation represents a significant step towards improving the environmental compatibility of motor vehicles.
Poor air quality is a cause for great concern throughout the European Union and it has serious effects on public health.
This Regulation therefore deals primarily with emissions of particulate matter and with the emission of nitrogen oxides.
The point is thus to improve air quality.
The Commission supports agreement at first reading for four reasons.
Firstly, the compromise we have reached takes into account both the costs and the benefits of laying down limit values for emissions.
More demanding limit values have been set for vehicles with petrol engines than for diesel vehicles, since it is easier and costs less to achieve lower emissions with petrol engines than is the case with diesel engines.
This fact is important if we want to persuade consumers to exchange their old cars, which do more damage to the environment, for cars which are more environmentally friendly, but also more expensive.
Secondly, the Commission welcomes the timetable for the introduction of Euro 5 and Euro 6.
The five year interval between the introduction of the two standards is important, so that motors may be further developed that comply with the second, stricter level of emissions.
Thirdly, I am pleased that it was possible to reach an agreement on access to vehicle repair and servicing information.
The OASIS standard will be retained for now and later it can be adapted speedily to keep up with technological advances.
Motor vehicles must be environmentally friendly not only when they are brand new, but throughout the entire life of the vehicle too.
Without access to repair and servicing information, however, this cannot be guaranteed.
Fourthly, I believe that it is important that a consensus should be reached on the question of financial incentives, a package solution of two emissions stages, as with Euro 3 and 4 and now again with Euro 5 and 6.
It is advantageous for the environment and for technology if both levels enter into force as actual levels.
The same must also apply to tax incentives.
For these reasons, the Commission can endorse all of the amendments proposed by your rapporteur, Mr Groote.
