Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, ladies and gentlemen, what has happened is particularly problematic and dangerous, and for two reasons.
The first is the obvious one that a dangerous weapon has got into the hands of a dictator who is well known for his lack of concern for human life, even for the lives of his country's people, and who is, then, prepared to take any risk, even that of their being wiped out.
This makes it extremely difficult to assess the precise degree of risk involved.
The second point to be made is that, if this test really does turn out to be successful and has been carried out using rocket technology, the region could see a new race to acquire and deploy weapons of mass destruction.
I do not know what debates there will be on that subject in South Korea, in Indonesia, in the Philippines or elsewhere.
It also needs to be borne in mind that there is an exchange of rocket technology going on between North Korea and Iran.
The Iranian Government is playing the hedgehog to our hare and it seems less and less likely that it is doing this only to secure its own peaceful use of nuclear energy - far from it, it is up to much more besides.
You, Mr Solana, have tried unstintingly to get things on track and conduct the talks accordingly.
There are particular dangers in this alliance, and that is why Iran is under a special responsibility to clear the decks once and for all and get stuck into some proper negotiations.
Mr Salafranca asked what sort of sanctions we are talking about.
We have to come up with some that really will have a serious impact on this man; if they affect the people, he will not be bothered, so what is needed is sanctions that hurt him personally, and they must be implemented and complied with.
What I will say to Mr Pflüger is that we should not now be seeking refuge in blaming one party or another for making mistakes at one time or another; the USA is not to blame for the fact that we have a deranged dictator to deal with.
We should ensure that this man is not given more escape routes by this House, for he is defying every rule made by the international community, and so we must compel him to return to the meetings of the Six, and, if they prove successful, he can be guaranteed security for his country, but this must be spelled out plainly if we are not to end up in 20 years' time with a world which will have 30 or 40 countries with nuclear weapons, and all set to destroy it.
