on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, I am actually glad that the debate on information policy follows immediately after that on the European Ombudsman, for the Ombudsman was, this morning, often referred to in terms of his relations with the public.
I find it problematic - and we in the Committee have found this too - that the Commission, where its relations with the public are concerned, often lags behind what the Ombudsman actually wants to achieve.
The Commission's responses to the many requests made of it by members of the public or those running projects in the European Union are often unsympathetic or even brash, and that is quite simply not on.
It is precisely those interested citizens who are responding to demands for the submission of proposals who are often on the receiving end of such unfriendly treatment that they lose interest in working any more on European projects.
What, then, is going to happen in the case of those members of the public who have other interests and are not committed in the first place?
That is no way to get our message across to people, and I have to say that, if what we are trying to do is to get people more involved, then the Commission's new communications strategy is not going to achieve that.
We need people where they are, and that is where we have to communicate with them; it cannot be done from Brussels.
The Commissioner means well; she really does want to communicate, but the problem is that the public have no desire whatever for what the Commissioner is serving up to them, since they take the line that the Commission is going to be all in favour of it anyway and that they do not have any faith in it.
What you need, then, is elected citizens on their home patch; you need the Members of this House, of the German Bundestag, and of the regional parliaments, with whom you can talk about matters of European interest.
We have the great problem, though, that they do see themselves as responsible.
We must try to communicate more on the public's own terms, reinforcing the infopoints in cities and establishing more of them, for it is these infopoints in town halls that get the message across to the citizens.
We must, of course, make use of the programmes that the European Union already has in the educational field; educational programmes like Comenius, Erasmus, and Leonardo make for the best communications strategy, so let us use them, and then we will find the citizens that we need in order to continue the European project.
