Mr President, Commissioner, we have just heard about the referendums on the draft European Constitution in the Netherlands and in France, but the reasons why people voted in this way also need to be set out, for it was not attributable to any failure on the part of the European Union, and most Europeans have already voted in favour of the Constitution.
Nevertheless, thought does have to be given to how to communicate this, and a number of practical proposals have been put on the table in the form of the White Paper, but, if the knowledge deficit is to be reduced, it will be necessary to develop and push forward high-quality public relations work at every level.
Among other things, that will mean more infopoints, which will be able to give useful answers to members of the public wandering haphazardly through cities in search of some way of making contact.
We need more media at the local, regional and national level, for it is often the case that reports in most of the media take a negative line.
The Council, too, whether in Brussels or Strasbourg, speaks a different language to what the people are used to at home.
It is the EU's fault that this or that decision went the wrong way; there, too, there is a need for action, and that is why - just as the report demands - it is important that dialogue among the Council, the Commission, Parliament, and the public, be encouraged, for with it, perhaps, we might stand a chance.
I am in favour of the significance of the programmes being underlined.
Programmes such as Leonardo and Erasmus, for example, do much to promote communication, but we are reducing their funding rather than topping it up.
Such things as active citizenship and town partnerships are important, and we need them; they are preferable to innumerable brochures, and yet it is here - in quite the wrong place - that cuts are being made.
Article 308 would weaken this House, for it makes no reference whatever to Parliament.
It would put us out in the cold, and that is something we have to defend ourselves against.
