on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, naturally, I should like to thank Mrs Gebhardt on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament - and particularly Mr Goebbels, who unfortunately cannot be here today.
As rapporteur, Mrs Gebhardt has steered the ship of the Services Directive skilfully through many stormy waters.
I should also like to thank my fellow Members from the other political groups, however, particularly the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats.
Although, of course, our differences of sociopolitical view remain, I believe that we have fulfilled our responsibility to present a tangible solution that is acceptable to the European public.
I am particularly obliged to Commissioner McCreevy, without whom this process could not have been structured so well, and to the Council Presidencies - particularly the Finnish, but also the Austrian Council Presidency.
I would ask the Council to bear in mind that the Austrian Presidency created a precedent when it invited us MEPs to a Council meeting.
This should not remain an isolated case; the possibility should definitely be left open in other contexts, too.
I also wish to thank the European Trade Union Confederation for holding such intensive consultations with us and also making it possible to arrive at a compromise on this.
I was born at the point where the former East and West met - between Vienna and Bratislava - and so I am aware of the fears, but also the hopes, associated with an internal market for services.
If nationalism and protectionism are now gaining ground once more in many of the transition countries, and also many of the 'old' EU Member States, one of the reasons may be that people are overwhelmed by the speed, sometimes even the brutality, at which this internal market is being established.
That is why it was so important to find a way to establish this internal market - which is needed - whilst also doing justice to social considerations.
After all, politics at EU level consists not only in removing the obstacles to an internal market - that is part of the story - but also in creating the political framework conditions for rendering this internal market acceptable to the people.
For these reasons, my group will give the Directive its wholehearted support.
Naturally, we have some reservations - which will be presented later - but, on the whole, my group supports this good compromise that has been reached.
We should have the courage to endorse this compromise today and champion it externally.
Once again, sincere thanks to Mrs Gebhardt.
(Applause)
