rapporteur. - Madam President, I want first of all - Commissioner - to thank the Commission, and also the Council under both Austrian and Finnish Presidency for the outstanding way in which it cooperated with this House, but very particularly my fellow rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, who made it possible for the Committee on Culture and Education, the lead committee, to work so very well with the Committees on the Internal Market, the Economy, Industry, Civil Liberties and Gender Equality.
Our common objective was and remains to keep television, a mass audiovisual medium, both an economic and cultural good in the future, for, in a shared internal market extending across Europe, freedom of information and diversity of opinion cannot be left to the market alone, and so it is vital that we should, today, proceed to revise the television directive, which covers analogue television services, but lacks as yet the legal certainty and clarity appropriate to the new digital services.
It is the express wish of this House and of its committees that television and similar services should in future be evaluated on the basis of their content, and without reference to their technological platform.
What is crucial is the primary purpose of the audiovisual mass medium in which content for information, education and entertainment purposes is produced and complied subject to editorial responsibility and then broadcast to the general public and transmitted via electronic networks, which means that these are clearly distinguished from the other services of the information society and in particular from those covered by the directive on electronic commerce.
It is this legal clarity that the new audiovisual services need, and, by being taken into consideration in this directive, that is what they are getting; it is only when the primary purpose of this directive is fulfilled that it actually becomes effective, so let me reiterate, and make it abundantly clear, that this directive does not cover those emails that are private or not public, any more than it covers the electronic editions of newspapers, for they have nothing to do with its primary purpose.
In the European Union, the country of origin principle is the foundation upon which the freedom of the media rests, and that same principle is very definitely present in this new directive, although it was also necessary to take account of the concerns of those Member States who see it being open to misuse or being circumvented or who fear that it will be.
This, now, is where this House's compromise is a very even-handed one, in that it takes account of both points of view with the end in mind of making the best possible use of the Lisbon process and hence of the economic strengths of the new electronic media.
This means that we have achieved broad agreement on the scope and the country-of-origin principle, not to mention on such other matters as the joint regulation and self-regulation of the protection of young people and consumers, the right to short-term reporting, the promotion of European content and of better access for disabled people.
It will become clear from the debate that we take a different line on advertising; like the Commission, I am in favour, not of more advertising - 12 minutes - but of greater flexibility.
Even so, I had the painful experience of having to agree to a compromise on product placement.
I very much hope that we will be able, by means of better labelling, to achieve a maximum of legal certainty and clarity for the consumers.
Overall, though, the revision of the EU's television directive is a real fitness programme for forward-looking European television, and I warmly invite you to give it your support.
(Applause)
