Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mrs Lehtomäki, I very much welcome the communication on innovation that the Commission will be publishing next week.
It represents one of the first serious attempts at drawing up an EU strategy for the positioning of Europe in the context of globalisation, and so I believe that it will be the most important item on the agenda at the informal meeting in Lahti.
Innovation is, in particular, characteristic of small and medium-sized enterprises, and the communication takes that fact into account.
As the Minister has said, innovation calls for European standards, and there are many fields in which much remains to be done on that front.
For that to happen, we need - as you yourself said, Mr President of the Commission - to spend more on research and investment.
Much as I rejoice in Finland's good example, I also have to point out that my own region, Baden-Württemberg, spends 3.6% of its gross domestic product per annum on research and development, which is a good deal more than either the USA or Japan do.
We also need more confidence in our own abilities, and that is at the heart of this communication.
We have to say more about what we in Europe will, together, be able to achieve once our structures have been revised, even in a globalised world.
We have an outstanding internal market, which - while we do have to further extend it - does nonetheless offer us protection.
We do need more self-confidence in our dealings with Russia and China, but we also need to know where, within the European Union, we need to undertake reforms in order to remain competitive, and the innovation strategy offers an excellent basis for that.
It has also been said that a more innovative approach to the award of public contracts is needed, and examples of what is meant by this have been given.
These things are already being done in my region.
I believe that there are some splendid possibilities for putting Europe in a better position to cope with globalisation, and I also believe that this informal summit in Lahti should help to develop - perhaps in the coming year - a globalisation strategy for the European Union that will enable us to convince the public that this Europe of ours has a chance in a globalised world.
