author. - Mr President, Commissioner, it is terribly sad that we have to keep on adopting resolutions on the violations of human rights that go on in one country or another.
Over the past two years, as many as six resolutions, statements and reports from various institutions and organisations on the subject of Iran have been adopted.
To our sorrow, we cannot avoid coming to the conclusion that the situation there has got worse rather than better.
There is no freedom of opinion or of the press; the Internet is censored and independent newspapers closed down.
There are apparently more jailed journalists in the Islamic Republic of Iran than anywhere else in the Middle East, and torture is a daily occurrence.
Those of us who were members of the inter-parliamentary delegation were constantly assured, in many conversations, that the above assertions bore no relation to the facts.
Unfortunately, those on the receiving end of such treatment tell another story.
There is no respect for women's rights; for example, women are prevented from observing International Women's Day publicly.
A demonstration on 12 June by women and men who had campaigned against the legal discrimination against women was broken up violently.
That there has been a first visit to this House by a delegation from the Majlis has been a step in the right direction in seeking dialogue with parliamentarians and the general public, and respect for human rights and human dignity was at the heart of this debate, in which we were told that all the accusations levelled against Iran were far removed from the truth.
We now call on the Iranians' representative body - the Majlis - and the Iranian Government to do all in their power to confirm this by backing these statements up with actions.
The human rights dialogue between the EU and Iran has also ground to a halt, and we should try to ensure its resumption.
Perhaps, Commissioner, you might give some thought to the possibility of a radio and television station that would make possible broadcasts to Iran containing information about Europe and European policies, which would be of use to the people who live there.
