Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by extending my sincere thanks to the rapporteur.
I believe that, together with his colleague Mr Jarzembowski, he spent most of his time trying to get a common position.
It was a very difficult task, but he did nevertheless succeed in it, so warm congratulations are due to him.
After a discussion that began more than 10 years ago in the early 1990s, the single EU driving licence in credit-card format will at last become reality and replace the 110 different driving licences.
It will have to be renewed with an up-to-date photograph every 10 or 15 years.
Even though a medical examination will not be required - it has been an accepted fact of life in Italy for years - the EU driving licence will be a contribution to road safety because it will also prevent driving licence tourism.
Anyone who has driven too fast or been caught with alcohol in their blood and lost their licence can at present go abroad and apply for a new licence there.
This practice carries serious risks for road safety.
Traffic offenders often go to Poland or the Czech Republic, thus avoiding not only the months of disqualification but also the medical and psychological examination they urgently require.
With the EU driving licence, that will no longer be possible.
There will be no more opportunity for all-inclusive packages that have enabled people found guilty of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or of speeding to obtain a new licence abroad.
In that way, highway hooligans have for EUR 1 000 avoided not only tiresome waiting times but also expensive medical and psychological examinations.
Given the high rate of accidents caused by speeding and drunkenness, this is an important contribution to road safety.
Random checks have shown that 75% of German car drivers using a foreign driving licence had previously had their licence withdrawn because of alcohol or drug problems.
This abuse will be impossible with the EU driving licence because a thorough exchange of data will prevent it.
I regret to say that my home country, Germany, has had its foot on the brake and, after the 15 years it took to reach a decision, has pushed through a further transitional period of 26 years before drivers will have to exchange their existing licences.
That is not only an act of social injustice at the expense of future generations - the renewal period means that new licence holders will already be on their second driving licence before the old ones have to be exchanged even for the first time - but also a further instance of the state tolerating organised crime by delaying the exchange of data.
In the interests of road safety and especially because of the length of time taken to reach this decision, Parliament and the Council should not have allowed any transitional period, but instead set uniform rules for the validity of old and new driving licences.
Member States are free to shorten the deadlines and I therefore urge you to do so and make the EU driving licence a reality in 10 years.
