draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the start of the first financial year of the Financial Perspective that we negotiated in April and adopted in May is almost upon us; the financial framework is a tight one, and presents us with a number of problems as regards the achievement of our policy objectives.
The Commission took a very cautious approach to drawing up the preliminary draft budget for 2007, and the Council - as always unperturbed by what the experts might say - cut it even further down to size.
The Committee on the Environment tried to save what could be saved by reinstating the figures from the preliminary draft budget and making responsible increases in a few lines.
The Committee on Budgets took on board all the Committee on the Environment's amendments, and for that I am very grateful to my fellow-Members who sit on it.
We cannot, however, regard the overall situation as satisfactory, since the financial year 2007 will present us with as yet unresolved problems with LIFE+ and the action programme on health.
Agencies are the only area in which we can look forward to the future with optimism on the grounds that they are being properly developed and funded, and by that I mean not only those agencies for which the Committee on the Environment is the competent specialised committee, but all of them, cooperation with which has undergone a marked improvement over the last two years; indeed, the personnel and personnel development plans for them will be in our hands by the end of the year, and I take a positive view of all of them.
It has to be said, though, that there are persistent difficulties with the new ones - the Gender Institute, the Human Rights Agency, and the Chemicals Agency - and, contrary to what the Commissioner has just said, these are not of a merely technical nature, for there is as yet no legal basis for any of them.
We in this House are still waiting for the start of negotiations with the Council pursuant to Article 47 of the Interinstitutional Agreement - negotiations, that is, on where the money for the three new agencies is to come from.
Perhaps the Presidency of the Council might be so good as to move this process along a bit.
