on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of terrorism in Spain is not a Spanish internal problem; it is a European problem.
Terrorism is an attack on our values.
Terrorism is always an attack on everything that we in this Parliament defend on the basis of our common European convictions.
No terrorism, absolutely none, is justified.
It is for all of us to find ways out of this terrorism because we are all - when it is our values that we are defending - victims of this terrorism too, every time a terrorist attack takes place.
Mr Poettering, commendably, made reference to my colleague Mrs Dührkop Dührkop, who is herself a victim.
We have many people with us in the public gallery today from the Basque Country who themselves were and are victims in that they have lost loved ones or in that they have personally suffered injury to life and limb.
They are here listening to us today because they want to say 'yes' to the route of dialogue because it is only through dialogue that the spiral of violence can be ended.
I admire men and women who must have experienced the deep sorrow that these victims have been through and who nevertheless come out and demand an end to the death, to the violence and to the downward spiral.
This moral force must be the impetus to reach a solution to the problems of violence, not only in the Basque Country, but everywhere else too.
It is thus a European problem that we are discussing today.
I admire the courage of the Spanish Government in choosing this path, a path that is controversial and fraught with risks.
It is, however, a path that is best described by a quotation that I would like to read to you.
For the sake of peace and your rights, we shall not close ourselves off but, rather, we shall open ourselves up to peace, hope, forgiveness and generosity and we shall do the best we can to ensure that peace is lasting with the help and hope of everybody.
(Applause)
What I have just read out to you is a wonderful sentence that describes what this is all about.
It is a sentence uttered by the Spanish Prime Minister who sent his Secretary of State off to negotiate with ETA.
It is a sentence spoken by the Spanish Prime Minister José María Aznar in 1998.
That is the spirit that can form the basis for us all to reach a common solution to this problem of violence, since what the Spanish Government is doing today is in the tradition of all the governments before it.
(Applause)
It would therefore be a good thing if we were able to attain a joint resolution.
I do not always agree with Mr Aznar, which will not surprise you to hear, but on this issue he was right, dear members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and dear members of the Partido Popular, he was your party leader, after all.
In this spirit we can agree, as one, that we are prepared, for the sake of such a fundamental right and through dialogue, to find a solution.
Mr President, when Members of this House had to deal with terrorism in the past, they were always aware of the risks.
When John Hume und David Trimble, Members of this House, set off together on the road to peace they were also aware that it is a road fraught with risk and that there is no guarantee of success.
The gun heist in France yesterday - which we condemn in the strongest possible terms - shows that if you want to get out of the cycle of violence there is always the risk that someone will attempt to use violent means to block your road out of the deadlock.
You cannot afford to be forced off this road, because what is the alternative?
Remaining deadlocked means perpetuating the violence.
The dialogue that has been entered into is thus a great opportunity, and I implore all of you, let us adopt this dialogue together on a common platform supported by all the groups.
(Applause from the left)
