Anyone who remembers the time when, on 13 February 2001, Commissioners Wallström and Liikanen presented the White Paper, will have an idea of how far we have now come.
I should like to express my particular thanks to the two Commissioners for increasing the focus on our jobs and the competitiveness of our economy under their responsibility and in their time.
I had always assumed that the Council President, too, was firmly bound by the Common Position.
Mr Sacconi has done a marvellous job but, to listen to the speeches in this House, one could be forgiven for thinking that the Communist Group and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance were in the majority.
What nonsense; they do not even have 100 votes in Parliament.
Therefore, this compromise, which enjoys the support of several of the groups, is a good one - even though it does not meet my expectations in all respects.
To Commissioners Verheugen and Dimas, I would say that it is important that the implementation of this Regulation does not turn into a huge bureaucratic monster, but instead really sets an example of better lawmaking.
Ease of use is essential to this end, as Mrs Roth-Behrendt pointed out.
If we ask ourselves today what we failed to achieve, I would say that the issue of how to deal with substances in imported articles is the most difficult.
No one can offer a solution to this issue.
What is the good of having extremely tough legislation if the substances enter the EU in imported articles and businesses relocate from the EU?
The compromise is responsible because of the way it has been constructed.
Not all the tests for small and medium-sized enterprises were necessary, and it would also have made sense to simplify the system by setting exposure and use categories.
It is regrettable that this did not happen.
Nevertheless, we shall support the compromise, and I hope that this European chemicals legislation will become a guideline for chemicals legislation worldwide.
That is the challenge facing us.
If we succeed, we shall have secured jobs in the EU and improved rather than weakened the competitiveness of our industry.
