rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their fruitful and constructive cooperation.
The vote on this report was postponed several times, but in my view the wait has been worth it, and the negotiations have shown that we have managed to work out a compromise with the Council at first reading.
It is important that the regulation should be adopted at first reading, because the Member States need instruments in order to achieve the air quality targets we have set.
It is deplorable that every year in Europe there are 370 000 premature deaths because of poor air quality.
This shocking figure must be minimised.
The compromise on which we are to vote tomorrow is substantially different from the Commission's proposal, because a second step was added by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
The so-called Euro 6 step brings limit values that are ambitious and realistic.
With this compromise we are at last effectively tackling the problem of fine particulates.
This is being achieved through the introduction of particle filters.
The limit value for the mass of particulate emissions is being reduced from the Euro 4 value of 25 mg/km to 5 mg/km.
Compared to the Euro 4 emissions standard in force today, this corresponds to a reduction of 80%.
Furthermore, the particle count will be measured at the very latest when the Euro 6 step enters into force on 1 September 2014.
By measuring the particle count, particles of the magnitude of PM2.5, which are especially harmful, will be reduced.
This too will bring about progress in improving air quality and public health in Europe.
The greatest step forward in combating motor vehicle emissions, however, is in the area of nitrogen oxides.
Here, the first step involves reducing the limit to 180 mg/km for diesel passenger cars and to 60 mg/km for petrol passenger cars.
Compared to today's Euro 4 emissions standard, this corresponds to a reduction of 28% for diesel passenger cars and a reduction of 25% for petrol passenger cars.
The greatest step forward, however, will be taken in the planned Euro 6 step and affects diesel passenger cars.
In this stage, the emission of nitrogen oxides will be lowered by 56%, from 180 mg/km to 80 mg/km.
As far as the time frame is concerned, I would like to point out that the Euro 5 step comes into force on 1 September 2009 for new types of vehicle and that the Euro 6 step applies from 1 September 2014.
In fact, however, Euro 5 and Euro 6 motor vehicles will be introduced more quickly, because thanks to this Regulation the Member States have the opportunity to promote vehicles with Euro 5 and Euro 6 emissions standards before the 1 September 2009 through tax incentives.
A look into the history books tells us that in 2001 for example, motor vehicles with the Euro 4 emissions standard were already available on the market, even though the Euro 4 emissions standard only entered into force on 1 January 2005.
Not only does Euro 5 ensure better air quality in Europe, but this Regulation and the compromise we have arrived at also improve the rights of manufacturers in Europe.
Thus consumers must now demonstrate the durability of pollution control devices over 160 000 km instead of 80 000 km.
Furthermore, in Chapter 3 of the Regulation the rights of consumers are protected, in so far as it is laid down that consumers may continue to seek out repair shops themselves.
This was achieved by securing access to vehicle repair information and by laying down a new format in this Regulation, the so-called OASIS format, for the provision of repair information.
Moreover I do not want to neglect to point out that this Euro 5 Regulation is a good example of the reduction of bureaucracy in Europe.
The Euro 5 Regulation cancels out 25 directives, and I very much welcome this as an example of 'better lawmaking'.
In conclusion I would like to ask you to support this compromise we have arrived at, so that consumer rights are reinforced and so that air quality is improved.
The compromise was negotiated as an entire package, and any deviation from the complete package would inevitably lead to a second reading, the consequence of which would be that we would have to wait for this instrument, Euro 5, for improving air quality in Europe, and, therefore, that an improvement in air quality would be shelved.
