Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that Mr Helmer would defend the British internal market, which he sees as geographically limited, without wishing to undermine the principle of the market economy.
I think, Mr Schulz, that we may have a semantic problem here.
For me, the market means meeting customers' needs and providing a range of services and products that the public actually buy.
That is my understanding of the market.
That, I think, is why your speech received so much applause.
We must not design the European single market and determine what we offer on it in future without taking into account the needs of the public.
The second thing - and it is something I see as very important - is the energy issue.
Energy - together with agriculture - is going to be one of the big issues full stop.
We will need more initiatives to be taken on the renewable energy front, and, on the food front - considering the way prosperity is on the increase in China, India and many other countries around the world - we will need a lot of energy for new and relatively high-quality foods.
We see the opening up of markets on the international level as having absolute priority.
We should be creating new openings for our farmers and food producers to sell their products in future.
Moving on to the CO2 debate, I would like to ask what we are supposed to do when a barrel of crude oil sells in Russia for 8 dollars - and to heavy industry, too - whereas here one has to fork out anything up to 80 dollars and emission trading also means that we have to pay the CO2 levy, so that our energy - and hence our raw materials industries - are subject to double taxation?
How, this being so, are we supposed to keep jobs in Europe?
A debate on the subject of these disparities on the market is urgently called for - and in the sphere of foreign policy too.
We will indeed see whether Russia allows its neighbours to pay the same prices as it charges at home; this will make for exciting debates in the future.
