Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I shall not repeat one by one the thanks Mr Toubon expressed to all MEPs, but they echo my sentiments.
I believe, as Mr Karas said, that we have seen a great convergence of the positions of all MEPs, and that MEPs have played a positive part in helping to allay the fears on the part of the countries of origin.
The fact that they have been allayed is at least partly attributable to the opening up of a path towards the completion of the internal market for services.
These negotiations, on which Parliament exerted particular influence, also demanded a great deal of our staff and, as has already been pointed out, Parliament showed itself to be influential and a driving force, but at the same time conciliatory as an institution.
Mr Harbour, our shadow rapporteur, described this as a good day for European citizens.
It only remains to say that the path of reality that this Framework Directive brings to European citizens has yet to be trodden, and the Member States must tread it carefully and constructively, as the Directive lays only the foundations for the future completion of the European internal market for services.
The country of origin principle has become the principle of freedom to provide services.
The internal market must be completed but, as the Bruegel institute recently made clear, it also needs to be highlighted even more strongly by Member States, civil society actors, and even the Commission and Parliament, including for the purposes of public understanding.
This represents another great challenge for us.
Personally, I consider the criticism levelled by some respected Members of this House that too many tasks would be transferred to the European Court of Justice in the course of the follow-up to be rather petty as, in any case, the main responsibility under a framework directive remains with the Member States.
I address to the Minister, as Council representative, my appeal for the Council to face up to this main responsibility, in particular.
