Mr President, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Kacin, for his work.
Although we do not always agree about matters of substance, working with him and discussing things with him are always interesting experiences.
I might add that I fully agree with his amendments.
As Mr Casaca has already said, the Agency has done a very good job, and I think that the EU can be proud of itself for creating it.
It has indeed done an excellent job, and if that is said by someone like Mr Casaca of the Committee on Budgetary Control, a body from which we can of course expect particular criticism, it counts even more.
Nevertheless, I agree with Commissioner Rehn when he says that times and situations change; individual countries go their separate ways; the duration of the run-up to countries' accessions often varies.
I would also ask him, however, to ensure that the people who have had some very positive experiences in these countries also be given the opportunity to continue to do good work for the EU and for these countries.
I should like to take this opportunity to give my sincere thanks to Commissioner Rehn, too, for his commitment to this region; as it is very important to have someone with sensitivity towards the region, someone who knows that its needs have to be met appropriately, and that that includes a pan-European approach.
I should like to ask the Commissioner to do his utmost in the coming months, at a time when the situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Kosovo will be precarious, and also to join together with Parliament - and the Council, too, I hope - to guarantee the stability of this region.
I am sure that he will do so.
A great deal of the work that the Agency, too, has done, will simply be undone if we do not set clear European objectives to ensure that the path towards EU membership is clear.
The countries must increasingly do their own work, however - albeit with our help and support - as we cannot take it off them.
It is very important, therefore, that the responsible Commissioner give a clear direction.
If he does so, we shall give him our full support in his further work.
