on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the rapporteur, Mrs McCarthy, has set out the essentials of why this matters in economic terms.
This European order for payment procedure represents a major step forward in the application of laws across borders, and, in particular, a step forward for business, which has a particular interest in the legal soundness of claims being established without delay, in the prompt assignment of title, and in this claim being capable of being enforced, without further cost-intensive procedures, in the country of the debtor.
It has to be said, though - and it is to this that I want to give particular attention - that legal relationships across borders will become increasingly important to private citizens, who find it particularly difficult to enforce claims across borders, whether such claims are contentious or not.
Today, it is undisputed claims that we are discussing, and that is why this first step is so important.
Private individuals find the business of getting what they are entitled to complicated enough as it is, and they have serious problems with getting claims enforced in a country other than their own; this instrument will make things easier for them.
A form that even an ordinary member of the public can complete will make it possible for claims to be enforced relatively simply and without great expense.
Another consideration is that constant reference has been made to businesses and to creditors, but not enough has been said about the debtors.
Systems have been introduced in the Member States of the European Union - not least in the one from which I come - to make the establishment of such claims a positively economical business, not least for those who owe the money.
The debtor who is willing - but perhaps not able - to pay up, can agree reasonable repayments with the creditor, who has an interest in establishing title and thereby preventing the debt from lapsing, and, in the absence of a contested case, fewer costs are incurred.
It is therefore in the interests of all parties that we should make cross-border legal proceedings speedy, efficient and affordable.
