Mr President, I would like to use this opportunity to highlight two crucial points in both these reports.
The first is that, formally speaking, and as far as I am aware, the new comitology procedure is not yet applicable in this area, but I take it as read that the Commission will take due account of how this House votes, since it will be applicable to new amendments in the future.
The second has to do with the question as to how we should apply the IFRS standards in future, an aspect that will become more and more important.
What I can say on behalf of our own group is that we, in principle, welcome IFRS standards as an international rule for European businesses, but it has to be said that there are conditions attached to that.
Convergence must be achieved, but that must also involve the European outlook and European priorities prevailing in future discussions on this subject.
It is for that reason that I am annoyed when I hear, emanating from the Board of Trustees, signals to the effect that a thoroughly critical view is being taken of the discussion as to whether, and if so when, convergence is achievable.
The main question, though, has to do with how, in future, we are to devise further standards.
It is no secret that we have now had a debate on what are termed 'IFRS for SMEs'.
The wheels are very definitely turning, and discussions are in progress in the relevant bodies; all of this has become quite separate from any political process, and so I would like not only to encourage the Commission but also to urge them to monitor this process very rigorously in the interests of its being subject to political and democratic constraints, and ensure that this House is involved.
I am this House's rapporteur on this subject area, and I also have experience of Basel.
You can take it as read that this process will not work on the basis of an agreement being reached at international level and Parliament being left with no option but to adopt it; that is why there needs to be close dialogue between Commission and Parliament.
The Commission is not merely encouraged, but also urged, to take active account of European interests and not to allow the Board to present it with faits accomplis in the way it has done before on other issues.
