Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we had really hoped that by now Kosovo would no longer be an international issue, and that the politicians would have been able to take over responsibility themselves.
Unfortunately President Milošević's legacy lives on after his death and is putting a great strain on the democratic government in Serbia.
In 1996, I demonstrated against Milošević in Belgrade together with the members of the current government, and I could wish for nothing better than for this government to be the one to bring Serbia into the European Union.
I also experienced the apartheid imposed in Kosovo by Milošević from 1989 until the NATO intervention.
It saddens me that far too much nationalism still creeps into discussions in Serbia.
If Belgrade were truly concerned about the quality of life for Serbs living in Kosovo and not about the loss of territory, then Belgrade would approve Mr Ahtisaari's plan.
It gives the Serbs in Kosovo a degree of self-determination that other minorities in Serbia and the Balkans can only dream of.
If UNMIK leaves now and we cannot fill the vacuum created by the absence of a Security Council resolution, we will be faced with a hopeless situation.
Commissioner, you have not provided any answers on this head.
As so often in the past, it seems that Europe is not actually willing to take the necessary action in the Balkans.
This indecisiveness is a major problem and will create huge difficulties.
It is not in our interest to keep on putting off the Kosovo issue to another day.
The collateral damage of our failure to act will be immense.
Like many other states, Russia was part of the Contact Group.
So Russia is fully aware that there have been no talks between Belgrade and Priština.
It is unrealistic to call for negotiations now, after rejecting Mr Ahtisaari's proposal and refusing to adopt a Security Council resolution.
So I urge this House to follow the Commissioner's lead and do everything possible to accommodate Russia's interests, which have nothing to do with Kosovo or Serbia, so that this issue can be resolved.
