President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr President, many thanks for permitting me to answer these questions together, as they belong together in terms of their subject matter.
My answer is as follows.
The Council can confirm that the restrictive measures against the Zimbabwean Government will be continued in their present form.
On 19 February 2007, they were extended by a further year.
The Council monitored the situation in Zimbabwe closely throughout last year, but was unable to detect any improvement with regard to the criteria it had established as a precondition for the resumption of dialogue.
The Council is monitoring the humanitarian and social situation in Zimbabwe very closely.
Humanitarian aid, including food aid, is being provided where needed.
The Council is paying particular attention to the human rights situation in Zimbabwe.
In September 2006, following violent attacks on demonstrating trade unionists, a declaration was issued calling on the Government of Zimbabwe, 'to stop intimidation and assault and to respect the human rights and fundamental freedoms of its citizens'.
In this connection, the EU made express reference to the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights to which Zimbabwe, too, was a signatory.
The Presidency reacted immediately to the violent break-up of a peaceful, church-sponsored rally in Harare on 11 March 2007, during which one participant was killed, several were injured and many were arrested, with a statement.
It expressed its concern about the criminalising by the Zimbabwean authorities of this peaceful rally, and urged that the persons arrested be released immediately and that they be given access to legal assistance and medical care.
There is no doubt that the crisis in Zimbabwe has had a negative economic and social impact on the whole region for years.
Regarding the role of South Africa, the Council assumes that this country is monitoring the political, economic and social developments in Zimbabwe very closely and working on solving the problem with the means at its disposal.
