Mr President, Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner, honourable Members, I want to say how very grateful I am for your support, for it does after all turn out that we agree on many things.
Taking our present situation as our starting point, we must address ourselves with greater energy to achieving, at this preparatory stage, a common position on the matters in which we, in 2005, perceived setbacks.
I would like to make it clear that while it is not a matter of doubt that the nuclear non-proliferation treaty has come under pressure from different sides, it does - if we take it seriously and have agreed on the 2005 Common Position - offer us a basis on which we can and must rely in the present preparatory conference.
I certainly want to underline what so many of you, including Mr Schulz, have said about the importance of putting an emphasis on the multilateral approach, for we do, indeed, all know from experience that unilateralism gets us nowhere, that we need the multilateral approach, and that the more we demand it, the more necessary it becomes that we, within the European Union, should take up a common position in order to make progress on this front.
The path that the European Union has sketched out in relation to Iran is the right one in both political and diplomatic terms, and the offer reiterated by the Council a few weeks ago is the right one even though some are becoming impatient - not that there are many alternatives available.
We have both - a resolution on security with the relevant sanctions, while, by the same token, the door to negotiations with Iran is still open.
Let me emphasise once more what I said at the outset about non-proliferation and disarmament.
This issue must, in the interests of the peaceful use of nuclear energy, remain on the agenda, even though views may differ to some degree as regards the ways in which the dangers can be minimised.
It is important that we should get support from your House for the forthcoming discussions, which are sure not to be straightforward.
As for the exchange of information between Council and Parliament, and collaboration between them, I am able, on behalf of the Presidency to offer, firstly, a briefing for the relevant committee following the first session of the preparatory conference, and, secondly, a progress report detailing, by reference to the 43 points contained in a previous resolution, which of them have been achieved and which not.
