on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with a special word of thanks to Commissioner Špidla for his remarks on the subject of information and consultation of workers.
We all know how much importance attaches to workers' participatory rights as a source of good industrial relations and as the basis of a contented and motivated workforce.
That is why these rights are also, and indeed particularly, in the interests of companies and employers.
We in Europe can be proud of our tradition of worker participation.
These rights feature prominently among our economic success factors.
Although consultation rights vary between Member States of the EU - in the country I come from, for instance, worker participation extends to a right of codetermination in the realm of business management - information and consultation rights are undoubtedly part of what we call the European social model.
The European Works Council Directive of 1994 is acknowledged as the pinnacle of Community legislation in this field.
By common accord, it has proved its worth too; one token of its necessity was the fact that some companies with operations in several countries had voluntarily established works councils even before the Directive entered into force.
I also believe that now, in 2007, the time has come to revise the Directive.
The 1994 Directive had actually designated 1999 as the revision date.
There have been many changes since the Directive was enacted.
Corporate economic structures have changed, and globalisation has made further advances, but the expectations of employees and those who represent their interests have grown too.
As representatives of the people in Europe, we shall gladly play our part in adapting the rules to the changes in the world of business and employment, for we all know that the only successful employers of the future will be those who act responsibly and with due regard to the rights and welfare of their employees, while well-informed employees who are involved in corporate decision-making processes will give of their best and be committed to the success of their company.
