on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all I would like to thank Mr Paasilinna for his very effective cooperation.
It was a very difficult piece of work, but you were always prepared to cooperate.
I would also like to thank the Commissioner for the tenaciousness he has shown over many months and the loyalty he has shown to the project.
You will see, Commissioner, that your persistence will pay off in the end, despite all the resistance you have experienced, right from the very beginning, especially from the scientific world.
Since President Barroso was obviously inspired by the MIT and sowed the idea of creating a European institute of technology, this idea, this project, has been transformed.
Today it looks different from the original version.
This is just as well, because at the outset we were still somewhat vague as to the structure.
A European project has now emerged and something new has evolved.
We are a continent of ideas.
We know that.
We are very good at research; we are very good at science; but where we have difficulty is in converting these wonderful ideas that have revolutionised the world into tangible products.
That is our problem.
Therefore, when it comes to defining research as financial investment in knowledge, innovation would be the reverse process.
Out of knowledge comes a product, a licence, a patent, which turns back into money again.
This is our weakness in Europe and it is precisely here that the EIT, the European Institute of Technology, can help.
It goes without saying that this regulation text is not an unqualified success.
This we can say straight away.
But it is a good compromise and it is now up to us to take it to the people and particularly to clarify it with those involved.
The rapporteurs have been working very well together.
We should not lose sight of the great objective in its entirety because the target audience of this EIT is small and medium-sized enterprises specifically.
The aim is also to access knowledge at university institutions, but it mainly involves this networking process, which is not working so well for us.
I would like to respond to a few controversial points.
The Commission is proposing that it should set the EIT's strategic agenda itself.
To this I would say we should not be doing so.
There must be autonomy here, too, as for the European Research Council.
Otherwise the private sector has little chance.
The question of intellectual property then needs to be dealt with in such a way that it also becomes attractive for a medium-sized enterprise to participate in the EIT.
Of course we need an EIT, which is a brand and has a brand name.
We want a strong EIT and we do not just want a pilot project either because that would deter many investors, and we need investors.
Let me say something else about financing.
I have been personally addressing the subject of the 'Lisbonisation' of our budget for some time now.
This means we can 'Lisbonise' the large budget that we have in the sector of agricultural and regional policy and we are evidently at a point where we are talking about the subject of Galileo and EIT being lumped together.
This is already coming very close to 'Lisbonisation', namely that we are investing in innovation.
Therefore: let us get on with it.
I call upon Parliament to endorse this compromise tomorrow with a large majority.
Congratulations to you once again, Mr Paasilinna, on your work.
