draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Transport and Tourism notes that the 2005 Budget allocated not much more than one billion euros to commitment appropriations and little more than the same figure in payment appropriations for transport policy, most of which - namely EUR 670 million in commitment appropriations and EUR 750 million in payment appropriations - went to the Trans-European Networks, and the committee is very pleased to say that those figures include payments for road safety and commitments to Marco Polo, with EUR 70 million in commitments and EUR 60 million in payments being allocated to the transport agencies.
The committee is, however, concerned at the above-average high level of errors in research contracts in the transport sector and about the fact that only 51% of the funds available were allocated to road safety, which, in view of our desire to cut accident figures in half, is an important programme.
It is important, where the Trans-European Networks are concerned, that we should concentrate on the things that make for efficient transport, rather than beginning with the big projects straightaway, only then to discover that half the necessary funds are absent.
There are many Member States in which projects have been suspended for lack of funds.
What we have to do is give absolute priority to modernising the infrastructure we already have and only then think about new building works, which involves the need to use short resources in the most efficient way possible.
Nor must we think only of the projects connecting North and South, for Europe needs to grow together, and that is why the East to West rail projects also need to be modernised, for many of those lines are still as they were in the last century, in the age of steam locomotives.
Climate change is important too, of course.
The transport sector is one of the great sources of CO2, accounting for 30% of output, and so our research projects must prioritise policy on climate and sustainability.
In this respect, they have hitherto been wholly unsatisfactory, and that must change.
We have given the agencies discharge, but they still need the resources for the necessary tasks laid upon them.
