Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, congratulations to Mr Lagendijk!
There is actually no need for me to speak at all, as I could simply endorse what you said, as Mr Swoboda and Mrs Kallenbach have done.
Nevertheless I will make a few comments.
I should like to give advance warning that after a debate of this kind we may very quickly be suspected by the outside world, and above all by the region itself, of being anti-Serbian or pro-Albanian.
I should like to protest against this.
We have been trying really for years to help the people in Serbia and Kosovo to have a peaceful and prosperous future.
Creating the prerequisites for this is difficult and the proposed solution put forward by Mr Ahtisaari makes it possible for the people finally to put Milošević's poisoned past behind them.
Whether that can be just, my dear Mr Tabajdi, I do not know.
Just solutions are very difficult to achieve.
However, I know of no other possibility than the one that has now been proposed.
Proper negotiations have of course never been held between Serbs and Albanians.
The extreme views were so far apart that they were never brought to the negotiating table.
Heaven forbid that we should therefore lengthen the procedure any more.
I also understand that no Serbian Government will ever sanction the loss of Kosovo.
However, if the Serbian politicians are honest - and of course some of them are when you talk to them - then they also know that with Kosovo in their national territory a peaceful future will not be possible, and it is this peaceful future that the people in Serbia and Kosovo, in particular the young people, deserve.
The politicians ought to ask themselves who in Serbia actually wants to bear the consequences of Kosovo's remaining in Serbia, both the financial and all of the political consequences.
The Albanians must enable those Serbs who wish to live in their homeland in Kosovo to do so, and to return if they so wish.
The Ahtisaari plan is in my view the only basis for a peaceful coexistence.
Unfortunately, discussions often disregard the years of the apartheid regime from 1989 to 1998, as has happened again today.
I noticed this in Mr Pflüger's comments, for example.
I do not think that the NATO attack marked the beginning, but that it all started with the revocation of Kosovo's autonomous status.
The Security Council would really be well advised finally to cut the Gordian knot quickly, so that we can continue working and help both Serbia and Albania on their peaceful path into the European Union.
