Mr President, Mrs Roithová, many thanks for your excellent report.
My thanks also go to the shadow rapporteur Mrs Herczog, who was responsible for working on the report within my group.
This is a subject of particular importance to our citizens.
It was very good to hear that Commissioner Kuneva will be taking action in this area.
That is essential, and we can only support her efforts.
We will be behind the Commissioner one hundred per cent.
Our citizens have a whole range of problems in the digital environment.
Goods do not arrive, or they arrive late.
They may want to order a product in another country, but find themselves unable to do so because the company says that they are resident in the wrong country.
Or they place an order and suddenly find themselves landed with a subscription.
These are the problems that our citizens encounter.
Of course, within the European Union there is already some very positive regulation within this area, but it is very disjointed.
It is vital that we create positive legislation for this area that meets the expectations of our citizens and, more importantly, of consumers.
We want the citizens to enjoy the benefits of the single market in this arena.
However, they can only benefit if we provide them with legal certainty, if they understand the basis on which they can do business, if they know that when they have a problem with a company they will be able to seek redress - and not have to wait 12 or 15 years for a result.
They will also benefit from a more open market if they are able to compare prices and access more information.
As you can see, there is still a lot to do in this area.
The citizens are expecting not only that we regulate the internal market, not only that we establish constructive and simpler rules for businesses, thereby ensuring that companies are free to move within the European Union.
Our citizens also expect a Europe that works for them, in which policies are not just designed to encourage the economy, with the citizens merely expected to contribute to that economy.
Instead, consumer protection should also determine policy, particularly in the digital arena.
It must be clear that we are making policy for consumers, and that the economy serves the consumers.
If this happens, Commissioner Kuneva - and I know this is your intention - then we will achieve our objective, namely a Europe for the citizens; a Europe in which they are free to make online purchases in another country without problems or obstacles, and in which they have rights, including the possibility of redress.
You will certainly have the full backing of my group, Commissioner, and we will be very happy to work with you to achieve your aims.
