on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, may I express our sincere thanks to the rapporteur.
It is rather a pity for your report that it is now entirely overshadowed by a single issue, namely whether or not it is reasonable to keep putting money into this difficult region now that the whole focus is on Palestine.
I would like to thank you for your sterling work, because we believe that we still have far more to learn from past experiences for our future programmes.
Commissioner, one of my requests would be that we do not let major disruptions occur in our programmes in future.
The EU specialises in complete makeovers after seven years.
I believe the budgetary controllers could achieve far more progress in the long term if we could rely on greater continuity in our programmes.
We can see today that our rapporteur's report was overtaken by events several times.
She took a lot of trouble with this difficult issue, particularly as regards Palestine, with visits to the region and an investigative report by OLAF as well as hours of discussion on what is surely the most troublesome area of the world.
For the third time, we are confronted by the question whether it is reasonable to put EU money into that area.
In spite of the reservations of many of my fellow members of the Committee on Budgetary Control, we decided in committee that it was reasonable, chiefly on humanitarian grounds, because we were aware of the good that had been done locally with this money, and we knew that the funds would be sorely missed if they were no longer available.
Two days ago the Council also answered this question once again.
We would like to issue a reminder that, as the budgetary legislator and the discharging authority, the European Parliament is sitting in the same boat.
We do want to support the lawful Palestinian Government, and we naturally have no wish to turn our backs on the humanitarian crisis in Gaza, but precisely because a civil war is taking place there, the European Commission has a special duty of accountability to us and must come to terms with its obligation to give us this account of its stewardship, particularly in view of the fact that budgetary aid is the riskiest form of support.
I was pleased to hear Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner's assurances that EU funds would be increasingly linked to successful reform policies in that part of the world too, for there is one thing we find inexcusable: for humanitarian and political as well as economic reasons, we cannot tolerate our assistance being systematically undone time and again.
