Mr President, I too would first like to thank the rapporteurs for their work - it was no easy job.
After all, the third rail package is the continuation of a long process of opening up the European rail sector to competition and harmonising standards in Europe.
Like many earlier speakers, I particularly welcome the proposed regulation on the rights and obligations of passengers.
Here, for the first time, uniform rules are being introduced throughout Europe to strengthen passengers' rights.
As Mr Koch very clearly explained, among other things the regulation covers the provision of suitable access to trains, stations and platforms for persons with reduced mobility.
It covers liability in the event of injury or death.
It covers the creation of a system of compensation for train delays and cancellations.
It is high time that not just air passengers but rail passengers also acquire minimum rights.
It is only at first sight that this regulation appears to place a burden on railway undertakings.
In the end, granting passengers minimum rights makes the railways more attractive.
Strengthening passengers' rights makes a considerable contribution to promoting rail travel, which will result in an increase in the overall share of this mode of transport.
Travel by rail is finally to become a real alternative to flying within Europe.
That is important in terms of the climate issue.
The Commission proposal provided for the introduction of passengers' rights only for international rail travel.
I am glad that we managed to ensure that its scope is now extended to all rail passengers, especially of course to domestic railways and not just to passengers in international rail services.
It is after all incomprehensible for a passenger on a train from Cologne to Brussels to enjoy passengers' rights while someone taking a train from Frankfurt to Cologne is not entitled to the same rights.
It is a pity, though, that we have to be satisfied with the compromise of possibly having long transitional periods before these rights are implemented.
The consumer will not understand that.
