on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, my fellow Members are absolutely correct to say that EURES is creating a European success story.
Without the EURES network, geographical and occupational mobility in Europe would not be possible to the extent that it is today and would not be available to workers who know their rights and are therefore able to exercise them.
The European Union's fourth freedom would only exist on paper if EURES did not exist.
Therefore, I do not understand, Commissioner, why you are not showing more commitment in order to improve EURES, in other words, creating more centres and improving quality, e.g. through best practice models in the border regions.
Really, they should be shooting out of the ground like mushrooms in order to pursue your objectives in the European Year of Workers' Mobility and increase geographical mobility in Europe.
More commitment really is needed here.
Regions affected by a shortage of skilled workers would benefit particularly if mobility were made easier in Europe.
However, it is of course the Member States, first and foremost - and the Council is notable for its absence here yet again - which are applying the brakes.
Mutual recognition of social security systems still has a very long way to go before it achieves the level which would enable workers to take up employment in another Member State without forfeiting some of their social security.
It is even more difficult for workers in Member States - such as my own country - which still insist on restricting mobility for a transitional period.
In these countries, mobility takes place in illegal and fragile employment conditions; the black market determines wages and security.
However, the battle against social dumping can only take place on the basis of legal mobility.
For that reason, I am mystified as to why governments such as Germany's on the one hand make the shortage of skilled workers a hot topic, but on the other, do not have the courage to allow people from the Eastern Europe countries to exercise their freedom of movement, thereby also defusing finally the sometimes absurd situation at the borders.
I also appeal to the social partners to do more for mobility in the various countries and to impose public controls to bring to light the black sheep and stop them from profiting from social dumping.
