Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to take this opportunity of congratulating you, Madam President, on your office as Vice-President, in which capacity you represent the region of Eastern Westphalia-Lippe, from which we both come, and that is cause for pride.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his report and point out that terrorism is a cross-border phenomenon.
We will succeed in countering it only if cross-border cooperation is in place within the European Union and with the states and organisations outside it.
Putting this in place is often a slow business, particularly if we consider the internal policy aspect of our shared security problem, which is still arranged between the states, and that is why implementing the positions of the individual Member States can sometimes be very laborious.
That is evidence of the fact that, if we want to be more secure against terrorism and organised crime, we need the European Constitution as a more effective means of making obligations in the common sphere more binding and improving the decision-making process.
Along with close cooperation between the security bodies, it is also urgently necessary that the causes of terrorism be addressed.
There may be no justification for terrorism, but it does have its causes, to which we have to give our attention, and I see political, economic and social issues as being of great significance here.
There must also be no more token gestures of a certain kind.
If it were to be possible, for a joint effort, for example by way of the Quartet, to resolve the Middle East issue, that would take much of the wind out of terrorism's sails.
I cite that as only one example of the interconnections that exist in this area.
Something that is apparent from the report, and that I find most especially important, is the need for us to make use of inter-cultural dialogue.
We have to make it clear to people in the other regions of the world, too, that we value their culture, their religion, and their development as equal to our own, if such causes of dissension are not to arise from feelings of cultural inferiority.
That is a particular duty.
All these things have to be done in accordance with the rule of law and with respect for our values, for, if we surrender the latter, the other side will have won, and that is why we have to take our values and the rule of law as our shield.
