draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, let me start with an apology.
I was not aware that the previous speaker was absent and that the speaking time had been changed.
Thank you for permitting me to speak now.
I was the rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection and after in-depth deliberations, the committee adopted this position by consensus.
I would like to point out, first of all, that there was agreement within our committee that soft law - or whatever we want to call these measures which are now being applied increasingly frequently in European law but also in national legislation - has become a very common practice which offers the opportunity to respond flexibly and therefore swiftly to new developments, which is why it should not be criticised per se.
We also agreed to some extent that the Commission - to turn to the European level - uses soft law in individual cases as a means of circumventing the opportunities for the participation of the legislator as provided for by law.
This, in our view, is a major problem relating to soft law.
We discussed, too, the fact that Parliament endorsed the complaint against the Commission in one case because we ascertained that such circumvention had indeed occurred.
We believe that the legislator encounters soft law in such diverse ways today that we must always make a clear distinction between what genuinely only comes on to the market in the form of a green paper, on the one hand - in other words, it is simply planned as preparation for further legislation - and on the other, what is genuinely necessary for flexible legislation in the framework of soft law.
As members of the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, we do not identify any legislative, any direct impact of such green and white papers, but we believe that when new legislation is adopted, the legislator must always adopt a new decision as well.
The debate, after all, not only focuses on soft law but also on other benchmarks for better law-making, and I believe that in many areas, we certainly have not made as much progress as citizens now assume from the media, which is why all the institutions involved - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - have a responsibility to make faster progress in this area.
