Mr President, Madam Vice-President of the Commission, I should like to discuss transport policy, the poor relation in this House.
Even though, together with the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the Committee on Transport and Tourism is the committee responsible for the most legislative acts, transport always comes last.
Yet transport is important.
Without transport infrastructures geared towards people's needs, there will be no growth and no employment.
It is possible to order everything over the Internet, but not have it delivered via the Internet.
Transport infrastructures geared towards people's needs are a prerequisite for growth in trade, particularly between old and new Member States, and so the Commission's approach in its strategy paper is the right one.
I should like to point out that the most important thing is not to demonise transport.
Recently, it has been postulated that, for example, no one should fly any more.
The Vice-President of the Commission knows that if she wishes to travel from northern to southern Sweden, the choice is between spending hours on a train and having to fly.
It is all right for people to fly, as the exhaust-gas pollution caused by air transport can be reduced considerably by means of sound policies.
If we succeeded in ensuring that Member States introduced sound airspace control systems at long last, we could reduce the CO2 emissions from air transport by 8-12%.
The Member States must do something about this: we should remind them to do so.
Indeed, Vice-President Barrot plans to present a White Paper on urban transport.
I am always somewhat doubtful as to whether urban transport is within our remit, but the Vice-President is absolutely right about one thing: urban transport accounts for a large proportion of pollution.
Parliament should agree guidelines with the Member States and the regions: that transport is needed for growth and employment, but that this transport should be as efficient and environmentally friendly as possible.
This will have to be discussed in greater detail.
We are following the same course, therefore, Madam Vice-President - but, without transport, there will be no growth or employment in the Community.
