on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to extend a warm welcome to Mrs Roth as President-in-Office of the Council.
As the rapporteur and also the Commissioner have already explained, the European licence for train drivers on which we are to vote tomorrow represents an important step towards the opening-up of rail transport throughout Europe.
The licence for train drivers forms part of the third railway package, which also includes two other legislative procedures we consider important, namely the one on passenger compensation and the one on the opening-up of cross-border passenger transport from 2010.
These three legislative procedures create the essential preconditions for successfully implementing the full liberalisation of rail transport in the EU.
The European licence for train drivers takes on particular importance in the light of the EU-wide opening of freight-transport markets that entered into force at the start of this year.
It will save time and money.
At present, each of the 27 Member States of the EU has different requirements for which members of train crew require certification and for the means of certification.
Up to now, the recognition of the various licences for train drivers has involved a great deal of bureaucracy, but it is to be hoped that the EU-wide standardisation in question will eliminate these problems.
A further advantage of this European licence for train drivers is that it will significantly improve the free movement of railway workers and also improve railway safety.
However, this licence will only be a real success if, in the final reckoning, it also reduces bureaucracy - and we have set the course for this as well.
For example, we have been able to avoid bringing in certification for the whole crew, as some had wanted.
We shall now have certification of train drivers as a first step, and of crew members performing safety-related tasks as a second - which the Commissioner had not considered a good solution.
The European Railway Agency is to decide what form this second step should take on the basis of the experience acquired up to that date.
This is our position.
We have also managed to move the date of introduction forward to the end of this year, as prompt introduction will save railway undertakings money.
We have had to accept a compromise on the Annexes dealing with the technical aspects - but it is one that makes perfect sense, and so it has our support.
I find this very satisfactory.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Savary, for his constructive cooperation.
We shall be supporting this report tomorrow in plenary.
