Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, European need not, may not and cannot regulate everything.
Member State subsidiarity and less bureaucracy are the slogans of the moment, which we keep repeating when we speak with members of the public.
The European Union's competence is constantly being questioned, but Europe should and indeed must be the motive force for development.
The Commission's right of initiative is a documented right.
Where no legislative instrument exists, it uses that right of initiative to focus on a thorny subject, draw Member States' attention to abuses and call for action.
That is the legal basis of this Commission proposal, and we must use it.
We must curb the adverse effects on health of risky and excessive alcohol consumption and its social and economic consequences.
A European strategy is to be formulated in order to support the Member States in their endeavour to reduce and prevent alcohol-related damage.
That includes research into its root causes, as has just been said.
It also includes, however, informing, instructing and raising awareness among the public; that is the crux of the matter, those are the key points.
Every individual is free to decide.
But individuals can use that freedom only if they are informed about the consequences and effects of their actions.
Upbringing and education are the key factors.
Upbringing within the family lays the foundations for a well-ordered and solid way of life, and we should put the focus on that, followed by schooling and advice.
The same applies to alcohol awareness.
I support Parliament's report, which improves the Commission document in many areas.
I am, however, resolutely opposed to the calls for health warnings.
There are clear rules on the labelling of alcohol.
The labels indicate the alcohol content.
Transposing and understanding what it says on the labels is the basic way to pass on information.
That, ladies and gentlemen, is general knowledge!
Everybody must be in a position to use that information for themselves in a responsible manner.
The same applies to most things in life: to eating and drinking just as to exercise, sport and fitness.
