President-in-Office of the Council.
We have already discussed the speed of enlargement and of course the limits of enlargement in this House on a number of occasions.
But at the same time, in the light of decisions already taken, such as the Thessaloniki decision already mentioned, we have said that the European Union must not become unwieldy if there are further enlargements.
It was already clear that the EU 15 could have done with different structures in order to remain able to act.
This is all the more true with 25 or 27 Member States.
If there are to be prospects for further accessions, the European Union must first satisfy these requirements, that is be transparent and not be unwieldy.
That is why I am always saying, as the Council President has already said here in Strasbourg, that those who call for accelerated enlargement of the European Union are sometimes the very ones who have difficulties with the Constitutional Treaty.
But if we want to bring the accession candidates into the European Union in the short or medium term - and there is every reason to want that on political grounds - then we must of course create the conditions to prevent the European Union from being unwieldy.
Those conditions do not exist at present.
Subject: Darfur
The Sudanese Government continues not only to fail in its responsibility to protect its citizens in Darfur, but continues to support Janjawid militias which, together with Sudanese government forces, bear the largest responsibility for grave violations of human rights and international humanitarian law in this area.
In light of the Sudanese Government's recent refusal to administer visas for the United Nations Human Rights Council High-Level Mission to Darfur, which follows consistent objection to the necessary deployment of a UN peacekeeping force, is the Council willing to consider targeted sanctions against Khartoum and is it able to confirm that it is doing everything in its power to press Russia and China to act, as their strategic oil interests in Sudan make them well-placed to influence the Sudanese Government?
