on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank the Commission and the rapporteur for their work.
Freight transport logistics is such a broad subject that it is not always easy to confine oneself to essentials.
As it is put so well in French: 'qui trop embrasse mal étreint'.
So let us be glad that today we have managed to pick out the key points!
We have to tread new ground, because this is not an easy field.
It is an area of conflict between the economy and growth on the one side, and the environment and security on the other.
Put simply: everybody wants the goods, nobody wants the transport.
That means that this sector, which does indeed offer very good employment prospects, does not have a very good image.
We must do our part to remind people firstly that it is an important economic sector, secondly that we can tread new ground, and thirdly that the sector still has employment potential today.
I still regard the reference to training as very important and it should be taken up by the various countries.
Specialisation in these areas can lead to new and interesting jobs.
Research can also help make freight transport more efficient, environmentally compatible and also more secure.
Cooperation among countries remains essential.
We need only think of the Trans-European Networks.
We all think globally, nobody wants to act locally.
To put it simply, we want these networks everywhere, but we do not have the resources, whether we negotiate with the Council to get more funds for the Trans-European Networks or with the countries themselves.
As regards modes of transport, I believe nobody has anything against shifting goods to the railways and inland waterways, but efficiency is the key point.
Efficiency is not just a question of price.
If transport by rail becomes cheaper but not more efficient, we will not achieve that modal shift.
So we must combine efficiency with price if we are to deal with this matter adequately.
Finally, let me raise the subject of megaliners and standardisation.
We cannot prohibit, or even authorise, everything purely at European level.
We should work together properly with the Member States and find directives, for example in the fields of security and infrastructure, that must determine whether or not these megaliners should be tolerated.
