on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, although sadly I have not yet had the pleasure of reading one of his books.
However, I have made a note of it and will make good the omission at the next opportunity.
Many thanks for the good cooperation, and many thanks, too, for your efforts to address important issues in your report.
Admittedly, legal frameworks are already in place for services in the internal market, such as the Services Directive or the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications, but the implementation of these Directives - both of them - sadly still leaves a lot to be desired.
I therefore think it is regrettable that the Council is not present this evening, as we could have made it clear once again that we expect both Directives to be implemented by the deadline and the work in the Member States to be pursued accordingly.
However, we also need more initiatives - as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out - to increase consumer confidence in cross-border services in the internal market.
Here, too, previous reports have addressed important issues.
In her report, Mrs Roithová has pointed out that there are still very many deficits in relation to Internet sales in particular, and that consumers still lack the requisite confidence in cross-border services here.
Similarly, Mr Lehtinen, in his report, draws attention to the obligations of service providers and to the issue of legal protection for consumers.
I would like to come back to a topic which has already been mentioned by two previous speakers today, namely the right of collective redress in cross-border cases.
We urgently need initiatives in this direction, so that consumers have confidence in cross-border services, and that can only be achieved by strengthening their legal position.
In my view, both reports - the Roithová report and the Lehtinen report - give important indications of the deficits that still exist.
The Commission should take both these reports seriously in its work to genuinely overhaul, modernise and update the consumer acquis.
