Mr President, I should like to thank the President-in-Office for his report.
It is true that it was a successful summit, and as always success has many fathers, while failure is a foundling.
In this case the success was primarily due to Germany's Chancellor, Mrs Merkel, who was after all Environment Minister for four years many years ago and is familiar with the European Environment Council.
The focus was on energy and climate policy.
Unfortunately, the public debate following this successful summit has only described the internal discussions about renewable energies.
In fact, as the Council Conclusions attest, much more was decided on the issues of security of energy supply and climate impact.
The impact on society of the proposals made is also important and if we set targets, for example 20% or 30%, then these targets have to be realistic.
Mr Schulz praised Mr Blair for his 60% target.
Mr Blair will not have to implement that, as we all know, and I am sure that his Conservative challengers will be demanding 70% by tomorrow at the latest.
These targets must therefore be realistic; otherwise they are of no real value.
Secondly, despite all of this success there are still some outstanding issues, such as the question of burden-sharing.
I hope that the Commission and the German Presidency will comment on this before the middle of the year.
What is the role of nuclear energy?
We cannot proceed as was stated in the internal German discussion.
It is a fact that generating one kilowatt-hour from nuclear energy produces 15 grams of CO2 whereas generating one kilowatt-hour from brown coal produces 970 grams.
We must therefore be open-minded when debating this.
I certainly believe that at the end of the day the success of the German Presidency will be judged on whether it is possible, in international negotiations with the United States, Russia, India and China, to convert this European benchmark into an international standard.
If so, the German Presidency will leave a lasting legacy.
