deputy rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, at this late hour, I am pleased that we are speaking about the economic and monetary union of the EU.
The European Parliament, in this report presented on its own initiative, expresses itself for the first time on the revised version of the Stability and Growth Pact, adopted by the Heads of State or Government in March 2005.
The revision concerned both the preventive and the remedial elements of the Pact.
The aim of the Pact was and remains the avoidance of an excessive deficit and the achievement in the medium and long term of a balanced budget and sound public finances.
The present report is an appraisal based on one year.
The reference period, in other words, is very short - too short, in fact; moreover, it covers the year 2006, a year characterised by very favourable economic trends.
These trends had a beneficial impact on the fiscal policies of the Member States.
It goes without saying that an assessment based entirely on this brief period cannot be the last word.
The real endurance test for the revised Pact awaits us in the coming years.
The report is an appraisal of the current situation.
The rapporteur, Kurt Joachim Lauk, who unfortunately cannot be with us this evening, has deliberately avoided naming the various Member States and assessing their individual levels of performance.
The point of this report was not to award exam marks; the rapporteur saw no value in that approach.
What the report can usefully do is to make a general assessment of achievements to date.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has dealt in great depth with this report, and our exchanges were highly constructive and fruitful.
On behalf of Mr Lauk, may I offer a special word of thanks to Mr Rosati, shadow rapporteur for the Socialists, and to his Liberal counterpart, Mrs in 't Veld, for their close and constructive cooperation.
The report was adopted by an overwhelming majority in committee.
I only intend to deal briefly with the main points.
The statistical surveys show that the spread in deficit and growth levels is too wide as well as demonstrating a correlation between high deficits and low growth rates.
The figures for 2006 show that the 21 Member States with low deficits or even slight surpluses also had high growth rates.
This substantiates the view that reducing deficits stimulates activity and improves economic output, thereby cutting unemployment.
Against this backdrop, the report highlighted three key points.
Firstly, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs argues strenuously in this report that the economic good times should be used to put public budgets on a sound structural footing.
The Member States must take advantage of the economic upturn, and particularly of increases in tax revenue, to reduce their public debts.
We must keep reminding ourselves that a stimulation of growth leads to higher demand and higher employment levels.
On a critical note, it must be said that the Member States are not making sufficient use of the favourable cyclical climate to consolidate their budgets.
Secondly, we call on the Member States to declare new public debt unconstitutional or unlawful by 2015, as has already been done by certain states and regions in the European Union.
The amendment to paragraph 20 tabled by the rapporteur, Kurt Joachim Lauk, is designed to clarify the scope of this call.
It states that what is being proposed is a binding obligation on the Member States within the euro zone alone, not on all 27 Member States of the European Union.
This seems logical, and may I ask you on behalf of the rapporteur to approve this amendment, tabled on behalf of the PPE_DE Group.
Thirdly, the report calls for the Member States' debts and deficits to be calculated in such a way as to make the figures comparable.
This is an important point, because a common basis for assessing the actual level of debt is essential in the context of increasing convergence within the framework of European economic and monetary union.
Allow me, in these last twenty seconds, to make two final remarks.
By and large, the revised Stability and Growth Pact worked well in 2006.
It remains a rule-based framework.
Since it was revised, all deficits equivalent to more than 3% of GDP have been regarded as excessive.
Nevertheless, the slow pace at which the level of public debt is being reduced in all Member States is a source of concern.
In the short term, then, the Stability and Growth Pact has worked.
Whether it will work in the long term remains to be seen.
The real test of its resilience will come in the next few years.
We expect the Member States to do whatever it takes to make the Pact succeed.
