Mr President, today we are discussing three essential steps that will help to breathe new life into Europe's railways and bring about a considerable improvement in passenger rights.
I would like to focus on just one aspect of the overall package that fits in perfectly with the start of the European Year of Equal Opportunities.
It is good that, in the regulation on rail passengers' rights and obligations, we are sending a signal and thus making our contribution to equal opportunities.
It obviously makes no sense to enact a regulation that is only relevant to international passengers.
In my view, all passengers should have equal rights.
At the forefront is the right of all citizens to transport, but passengers can only assert their rights if they know what they are, which is why information is a necessity.
I would call for all people with limited mobility, regardless of whether it is due to disability, age or another factor, to have equal opportunities to travel by rail.
It is quite clear that we need to work continuously to improve barrier-free accessibility.
It is also clear, though, that is not possible to adapt all vehicles and all buildings straight away to meet the needs of these people.
Once the regulation enters into force, station operators and railway companies will have to pay particular attention to ensuring that people with limited mobility can get information regarding the accessibility of railway services, the conditions for accessing trains and the facilities on the trains.
To ensure that, in particular, passengers with sensory impairments are provided with information regarding delays as efficiently as possible, we would call for information announcements to be made using both acoustic and visual systems.
In future, people with restricted mobility will be able to buy tickets on the train without paying a supplement, and, if a person cannot access the services provided in the train due to their restricted mobility, they will be able to be accompanied by another person who will travel for free.
A social Europe is on its way!
