Mr President, my colleague from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Belet, has done an excellent job.
His report strikes a balance between the social and economic dimensions of football.
I spoke to club managers, players and fans and tabled amendments in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, which received widespread support.
Young players need to be nurtured from early on by attending high performance centres and by being given plenty of playing practice.
That is why I support the UEFA proposal always to have a minimum number of home-grown players in the team.
Surely it ought also to be possible, Commissioner Figel', to enshrine this principle in law.
I am in favour of professional clubs releasing their players for the national teams and being entitled to compensation if they are injured or absent for weeks at a time.
It is time that FIFA and UEFA had a new, joint insurance system.
Being named for the national side is extremely stimulating for the players and good for the clubs.
Just a moment ago Karlheinz Rumenigge was here in the European Parliament.
I am a member of a German league club and also of the Friends of Football Group here in the European Parliament.
The issue here is fair play in competition between the teams.
At present, many clubs have huge debts and yet still receive a licence.
Other clubs manage their finances responsibly, but cannot reach optimal strength because of limited funds.
Something has to change here.
Let us continue to fight together against racism.
Last year our resolution received the greatest number of signatures in the history of the European Parliament.
Offences must be dealt with consistently, with games played in front of empty stands, points deducted and clubs banned if they are not prepared to take action.
When it comes to preventing and eliminating doping there should not be any lazy compromises either.
We do not need a European supervisory body to monitor the activities of sovereign football clubs.
What is effective in the long run is cooperation.
That is why we must safeguard the independence of our clubs and subsidiarity.
I have faith in the legality of the decisions made by sports tribunals and in the power of self-regulation in UEFA, FIFA and our national associations.
