Mr President, in March 2007 the European Council, headed by our Chancellor Angela Merkel, decided that 20% of total energy consumption should come from renewables by the year 2020.
The advantages are self-evident: lower CO2 emissions, less dependence on energy imports from unstable states, growth and employment opportunities, especially in rural areas.
Following the summit decision, we now have to implement those objectives.
The following points are particularly important here.
The Commission must have the necessary powers and resources to be able to ensure that the individual Member States actually comply with the objectives set at the summit.
If we want to achieve a target of 20% of total energy consumption being made up of renewables, then every Member State must play its part.
At the same time, as provided in paragraph 9 of the report, each Member State must be free to choose the most appropriate renewable energy source in the various sectors.
Another key issue is improving energy efficiency.
We can only achieve the 20% renewables target if we improve energy efficiency as a whole.
There is an enormous untapped potential in the area of building insulation and energy-saving electrical appliances, where there are many innovative technologies that could already be marketed.
We must also do more than before to introduce renewables in the heating and cooling sector, given that 40% of total energy used in the EU is used in buildings.
There is a huge potential here for the use of renewables.
Modern structural planning and energy-saving new buildings can help ensure that renewables cover the entire energy demand for buildings.
Biomass is another source of renewable energy, which must be further developed because of its versatility and base load capacity.
We must ensure, however, that biomass production is sustainable and does not compete with food production.
Here, as stated in paragraph 57 of the report, we must ensure that biomass is managed according to internationally recognised high standards of sustainability.
It must also be ensured that overall the development of biomass has a positive effect on the climate and energy.
It is also important to note the contribution of nuclear energy to climate protection.
At present, we cannot do without nuclear energy as a low-emission technology.
A high priority must also be given to research into renewable energy sources in the EU.
Technological developments in this area are decisive to sustainable energy supplies.
In particular, we must further encourage and promote the development of storing renewable energy sources, for example on the basis of hydrogen technology.
All in all, I eagerly await the Commission's proposals at the end of this year.
I hope the Commission will take many of Parliament's requests on board.
