on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I shall say just two sentences about the substance of the matter in hand - with which all of us present here are familiar - and would then like to say something about the procedure.
Thousands of patients right across the European Union are waiting in desperation for new kinds of therapy that might alleviate their suffering or even save their lives.
To all those who think certain categories of therapy have to be excluded, in whatever country and with whatever laws being in force, I say, once more, here and now, what I said in the committee, and yes, I do mean it: you are cynical, you are irresponsible, and you should be ashamed of yourselves; now take your ideas and put them to the patients - face to face.
Mrs Breyer is not squeamish either, so you can say it to her as well.
I should now like to say something about the procedure.
I will do this in English so that Mr Mikolášik will understand me directly.
Mr Mikolášik spoke about tabling amendments without the knowledge of the rapporteur.
It is not necessarily usual that one clears it with the rapporteur, Mr Mikolášik.
I would have loved to do that with you, but you stopped cooperating at an early stage in the trialogues.
I want to read out what we - Mrs Ries, Mr Adamou and others here - did, so that everybody is clear.
We tabled a package of 75 amendments.
32 are exactly identical to the amendments from the committee; 18 amendments are slight linguistic changes; 10 amendments are working on a compromise which you and I already agreed on before you stopped cooperating, and 15 amendments are linguistic or legal concerns.
That is the situation we are in at the moment.
I now want to add something concerning what you said before on the interinstitutional agreement.
I think we should just have a result as soon as possible.
Mr Mikolášik, you also said that we should have a first-reading agreement.
I agree, because thousands of people are waiting for it.
I am very grateful to the Commission and to the Council, who really supported us in reaching a result.
From my point of view, they have come as close to Parliament's positions as they could - going further than I have seen before and further than I expected them to go.
Naturally, Mr Mikolášik, we compromised, you compromised and I compromised.
In fact I made a compromise as regards your group's position on hospital exemptions and other things, because I thought, as some of you think, we should have a strong, safe regulation which makes sure that patients get the best scientific support and the best therapies in safe surroundings.
As regards the so-called 'ethical' amendments, yes, Member States who want to ban the use of foetal stem cells should be allowed to do so, and, Mrs Breyer, everybody who says that the Court of Justice would deny that and would put it under Article 95 is either not knowledgeable - which you are not - and then giving the wrong impression, I am afraid.
If you read Article 30 of the Treaty, you are exactly sure that it says that public morality is always a reason to make sure that a Member State can ban something.
And that is what happened in the past.
That is what is happening at the moment in the European Union.
We have always said that those Member States who allow research on it could continue.
However, the patients also deserve the right to have the safest, best products available, and that is why I tabled an amendment on subsidiarity, to make sure of that again.
That amendment is in the package.
It says that every Member State which thinks a product should not even be produced there, nor marketed, should be allowed to ban it.
In other Member States, the patients should have the freedom to obtain it.
That is what we are here for.
