Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, warm thanks to the rapporteur, Britta Thomsen.
It is a good report.
I hope it will be adopted on Wednesday by as clear a majority as in committee, for in spite of the somewhat critical remarks by Mr Chichester we achieved a broad, almost unanimous majority in favour of the report in committee.
As I said, it is a good report, and it is also an important and necessary one.
You know that the Commission is currently preparing a framework directive to implement the spring Summit decisions on achieving a target of 20% of renewables by the year 2020.
The Commissioner has spoken to you about it and it was good to hear him say clearly that the Thomsen report will play a relevant role.
What is the issue now and what is really important?
Firstly, we have successful directives, especially on electricity but also on biofuels.
So the important thing now is to take up and to strengthen and improve those successful directives, as pointed out in the Thomsen report.
Secondly, we must commit ourselves to what the Commissioner already agreed in plenary last year, which is to include the area of heating and cooling, in order to minimise the deficits we have in that sector and improve market penetration.
Hitherto we have taken a clear sectoral approach, and I believe we must not forgo this.
It is also extremely important to ensure that the national action plans include really clear sectoral targets, binding targets, to ensure that here too we have a broadly-based development of the various technologies.
It is most important to decide how the 20% are to be assigned among the Member States.
That really means we must ensure a fair distribution of burdens, or rather opportunities, a distribution that really is based only on potential and on what has already been achieved, what already exists in the countries concerned.
So we really must take a very clear approach here.
I am glad that the report states very clearly that we are concerned here only with renewables and not with low-CO2 energy sources.
May I thank Commissioner Piebalgs once again for making that clear.
I believe the Commissioner has a major responsibility here.
We have seen a genuine new impetus, with the presentation of the electricity directive.
I hope the same will happen after the framework directive, which, I hope, we can expect before the end of this year.
