President-in-Office of the Council.
I can answer your question as follows, Mr Ortega.
In its December 2006 Conclusions, the European Council noted the following: the capacity of the European Agency for Operational Cooperation at the External Borders - the European border protection agency Frontex - will be rapidly enhanced by ensuring adequate financial and personnel resources and their effective use, establishing procedures for emergency situations, strengthening operational means, reinforcing links with the Immigration Liaison Officer Network and completing the planned review of the Agency and its tasks in 2007.
The Agency's budget for 2007 has been increased appreciably and now stands at a total of EUR 22.2 million.
The number of persons employed is also increasing steadily and will total 87 in 2007.
Regarding the establishment of procedures for emergency situations, the Council has recently concluded consultations with the European Parliament on a proposal for a Regulation of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a mechanism for the creation of Rapid Border Intervention Teams and amending the Council Regulation as regards that mechanism.
The European Parliament will be voting on the regulation at the end of April.
The Justice and Home Affairs Council will then consider the regulation in June.
In addition to sending personnel, Frontex is currently compiling a centralised record, the 'tool box', of the Member States' existing technical equipment for controlling and monitoring the external borders, which they are willing to put at the disposal of another Member State on a voluntary basis and on request.
On 15 February 2007, the Council examined the progress made in establishing the 'tool box' and called on the Member States to make an active contribution.
The situation was again reviewed at the Council meeting on 19 and 20 April.
The Council Conclusions of 14 and 15 December 2006 invited Frontex, together with the Member States of the region, to establish a permanent Coastal Patrol Network on the European Union's southern maritime borders by mid 2007.
The introduction of this network will be an important step for taking action jointly and in particular in coordination with the Member States against illegal immigration on the southern maritime borders.
The network will be an effective instrument for countering the growing migratory pressure in the region that is anticipated in the next few weeks and months.
The Coastal Patrol Network is planned to commence on 24 May 2007.
Finally, in accordance with the Hague Programme which the European Council adopted on 4 November 2004, the Commission will before the end of 2007 be submitting to the Council an assessment report on the Agency, and in connection with that assessment consideration could be given to the possibility of giving Frontex additional tasks or powers.
