Mr President, frequent reference has been made already to the Constitution, under which Europe gets more powers as regards energy policy.
Since, though, the Constitution is not yet in place, we will have to endeavour to find another way of getting these greater energy policy powers, in particular - as Mr Gloser mentioned - in respect of external policy.
How are we and Russia supposed to have a proper relationship as equals if the European Union cannot, on these matters, speak firmly and with a single voice?
Russia would much rather negotiate with the individual countries and play them off against one another, but what we are calling for - at this summit specifically - is for us to make it clear that, in this relationship with Russia, there is only one European voice, and if Russia complains that it does not have full access to the market, just what are we, in Europe, supposed to do about it?
That is why an equal relationship with Russia matters so much.
Secondly, we have to diversify.
We have to get access to other sources, but where?
I am talking in particular about the Caucasus and Central Asia.
When one sees how the United States of America - committed to the free market though it may be - has managed to get an oil pipeline built from Baku to Ceyhan in Turkey via Tblisi, with private investors being encouraged to support what was considered an important political project, as against how feebly and with what difficulty this sort of thing gets done in the European Union - one can take the Nabucco pipeline for Europe's supply of gas as an example - then it is clear that we have to demand that this European Union of ours stands up for itself and speaks with one voice.
Since Mr Goebbels has already mentioned many of these things, I really would like to see all these things spelled out at the summit.
If we believe that we have to diversify; if we believe that we need new and additional pipelines, then we have to say so, loud and clear, and then along will come Russia and will try to get involved or to do business with us.
If we do not, on international markets, have an unmistakeable European profile, then we will not be able to do those things that we have to do for our own people, that is to say, to ensure the security of Europe's energy supply.
