Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to thank you for the many important things you have said, but also for being realistic enough to see that it is not, of course, possible to agree on everything.
The fact is that all of us would have liked to see something in line with our own thinking, and, as indeed one speaker said earlier on, all this is an important step forward, but we need many more of them.
It is clear from the joint statement by the Commission and the Council that we had, in various areas, due regard to the principle of mutuality, which is an important one.
What is equally important is respect for human rights, and of that you rightly reminded us.
While I do not wish to confuse these two considerations, they are, of course, connected in some way.
The importance of dialogue with Russia has already been highlighted in various debates.
Although demands are always being made that we should get our way on various fronts, if, for example, there is still no go-ahead given for the negotiation of the partnership and cooperation agreement with Russia, there is no possibility of our making demands, expressing aspirations, or putting forward what you have requested, and it is for that reason that it is high time that the green light was given.
I hope that we will be able to find a suitable solution to the problem that still hangs over this issue.
Even though there may be things that we cannot accept as regards respect for human rights, there is nonetheless the twice-yearly human rights consultation between the European Union and Russia, which present an opportunity for raising such issues.
Some of you made reference to the issue of bureaucratisation.
While we would, of course, have wished to do many things differently in this area, the regime has nonetheless been relaxed as regards necessary invitations, and I am sure that the Commissioner will have something more to say about this.
This has not, of course, been done to the extent that some of you demanded, but it is nonetheless evident from this that we are making progress, albeit often with only small steps, for it is small steps forward that are called for in dialogue, particularly with Russia.
