Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, mercury is everywhere: for example, it crosses the placental barrier.
Mercury is a metal that is liquid at room temperature and readily evaporates.
The limit value for metallic, inorganic mercury in blood is 25 micrograms, and that for organic mercury compounds is 100 micrograms.
I shall not go into the effects of mercury poisoning here.
I am sure you are all familiar with Minamoto in Japan.
The issue here is not only the economic pros and cons for our Community, therefore, but also the protection of the health of our fellow citizens and the protection of an intact environment.
The report by Mr Papadimoulis, whom I thank for this work, will mean that there is an end to the export of mercury compounds from Europe and that the EU starts work on the safe storage of the existing material.
At the same time, it makes sense for all mercury compounds to be covered by the export ban where a substitute is available, which is the case for almost all uses.
In addition, as far as we know, we as exporters of a hazardous substance are not able - and, pursuant to our WTO commitments, not entitled - to demand that the recipients make the mercury traceable, which means that the whereabouts of the mercury are unclear and that there is a very definite possibility that it could return to the Community.
I consider Article 175 of the common treaties applicable to this Regulation.
The tightening of the rules, the shortening of the deadlines and the inclusion of mercury compounds in the export and import provisions are both appropriate and toxicologically consistent.
I am sure there is still room for negotiation to reach agreement on the deadlines.
With regard to the final storage of mercury, attention is being paid to research, as it has not proved possible thus far to find a reliable storage method for this in use on an industrial scale anywhere in the world.
The quantities involved run into the thousands of tonnes.
I endorse the report in the original version presented by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
