Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the nuclear weapons non-proliferation treaty was a great achievement, but we see nuclear weapons continuing to proliferate.
We also, alas, cannot fail to see that the review conference has, for the moment, proved abortive, and that is why this preparatory conference in Vienna is so important.
It is also of the very utmost importance that this House should be able to contribute its opinion to it, but the effectiveness of this is conditional upon the resolution being a joint effort, and one reflecting all our views.
I hope that we will achieve that sort of result when we come to the vote.
After the Soviet Union collapsed, we all believed that the days of mutually assured destruction were behind us, but, today, the risk is that, while that may have been banished from the global stage, it may be about to resume regionally.
We must, together, do everything in our power to prevent this from happening.
I would like to say something about one of the proposals, of which there are many, namely the international system for uranium enrichment, something that has now acquired extraordinary importance, but I also want to say something about another matter that is not directly connected with this debate, although it does have to be the subject of public discussion, and that is the issue of the anti-missile system.
Here in Europe, we are currently discussing an American anti-missile defence system and its effects on us, but what must be of real interest to us is the security of Europe.
The Iranian rockets against which the Americans are protecting themselves, are much closer to Europe than they are to America.
We are told, for example, that these Iranian rockets are already capable of reaching Southern Italy and Greece, and that is why we have to have a general debate on the question of whether this sort of system is needed, for if it is, it is we, Europeans, who need it just as much.
That is something else that we in this House must discuss and on which we have to reach decisions.
