Mr President, I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate you!
Mr Jarzembowski, I would also like to take the opportunity to express my respect - even though we have different opinions on a certain specific area of your report - for the resolve, tenacity and vigour with which you have pursued this report, as long as I have been in this House, and for the relative success you have achieved.
On the surface, we all want the same thing for the European railways: high quality, high safety standards and good working conditions.
It has always been said that we have differing visions of that and differing ideas of how to get there, but I am not so sure that that is really true.
I wonder why it is mainly those Members who did not really strengthen the railways in the matter of the Infrastructure Costs Directive, by rather overemphasising certain things, that are now on the pro-liberalisation side.
Why, for example, did the former Austrian transport minister push so hard for liberalisation, while at the same time running the Austrian railways almost into the ground with his domestic railway policy?
Why have we not all gone down the perhaps more sensible route of saying that we will first of all examine liberalisation in the international arena, and wait until we can see where this path takes us before we decide whether we want to continue down it?
If we had done that, I would have been able to say with certainty that everybody here is in favour of progress on Europe's railways.
I do not think that some kind of neoliberal anti-railway campaign is underway here.
I really do not think that, even though the rapporteur has shifted somewhat to the right in time to present the report to plenary.
I have shifted to the right with him, so that says nothing.
I do think, though, that there are many different reasons for following this path to liberalisation that I cannot fully share.
I therefore do not want to jump on this bandwagon just yet.
Perhaps I will be convinced in time, but at the moment, when it comes to national liberalisation, I do not want to be a part of it.
