on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 'Rome II' is an abstract title cloaking issues that have a very direct, and very considerable, impact on the public, and it was for that reason that the arguments in committee on the various issues were so hard-hitting.
I propose to highlight three of them.
The first is the issue of the impact on the environment of damage from across borders.
Where the protection of the environment is concerned, the fatal tendency generally manifests itself that people try to ignore the problems of their neighbours, even when they themselves, by means of irresponsible action, are the cause of them.
We cannot but note with regret that it is turning out over and over again that people do not care and that installations emitting pollutants are being built very close to borders.
We have tried to come up with rules enabling victims of such environmental problems to enjoy the maximum protection possible and preventing the sort of environmental dumping to which the Commissioner referred.
It is regrettable that both the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe have decided not to agree to this, thereby opening the way to a retrograde step that I think would be fatal.
I look to the Council and the Commission to help us find a better way.
We have managed, where protection against defamation in the press is concerned, to come up with a compromise that I see as protecting and supporting press freedom, one of the European Union's fundamental values, which we must treat with respect and which must be central to what we do, and which is best protected if the legal consequences can be discussed in the country in which the newspaper or medium is based.
I regard road accidents as particularly important, in that anyone can, potentially, be affected by them; on this point we have arrived at a compromise, and I hope that it will be accepted in the course of negotiations with other bodies.
The public can expect us to take account of their day-to-day needs and to prioritise the interests of the victims; that is what the people of Europe expect of us.
