Madam President, Commissioner, first of all, it gives me great satisfaction to note that the women are setting the tone for this debate.
Unfortunately, this report has been ill-fated from the outset.
It is true that it has improved a little.
Nevertheless, in my view, it is still much too confusing to send the desired clear signal to the Commission and make this institution, too, realise that things are not as bad as they seem in its Communication.
I shall be supporting those parts of the report that continue to regard a specific market organisation for wine as indispensable.
In my view, however, it is nothing short of a provocation that the Commission is now devoting its attention superficially to proposals for a single market organisation for all agricultural products, whilst here we have been racking our brains for months over the reform of the common organisation of the markets in wine, fruit and vegetables.
How seriously does the Commission really take us?
What does it have at the back of its mind?
Regarding the organisation of the CMO for wine, we need the funding to be under the first pillar.
We need better use of funds to enable us to maintain and improve our production potential, regain old markets and conquer new ones, and promote moderate, healthy wine consumption.
We need more subsidiarity and greater responsibility for the profession, so that funds can be spent more selectively at regional level.
Nevertheless, when it comes to allocating national funding, the regions that have made the least effort to produce and market good-quality wine should not be rewarded once more, on the basis of 'historical criteria', for ploughing hundreds of millions of euro into the distillation of unmarketable wine.
That is unacceptable.
It is also unthinkable that northern regions, which have marketed their quality wines without European funding, should be forbidden from producing their wines according to traditional methods.
This is no solution to the structural problems in the regions that have slept through structural reforms on a bed of their distillation millions.
Europe does not in fact have a structural surplus of wine, but instead has a surplus corresponding exactly to the quantities planted illegally.
If vintners want to give up their business early, they should be able to do so and the social effects should be cushioned, but they should do so without causing irreparable environmental damage by grubbing-up within the boundaries of quality-wine production.
It must be possible to compete for markets worldwide on fair competitive terms.
European wines should not be produced using water from Europe, or must imported from third countries.
Blending European and imported wines is also out of the question.
What was the Commission thinking?
(The President cut off the speaker)
