Mr President, Mr Vice-President, my group stands four-square behind the rapporteur.
Let us make no bones about this.
Our Parliament reminded the Member States back in 2002 that they had to meet their share of the cost of measures for the protection of public safety and order.
We asked you to formulate a strategy for resolving the issue of funding the security measures without distorting competition between airports.
You then presented a report, but in that report you neither said, 'Here is a way we could resolve the issue without distorting competition', nor did you say there was no point in making a proposal.
So we still await a proposal.
We told the Council last year that we expected it to acknowledge clearly its financial responsibility.
It stated once more that it was not prepared to do so.
We are no longer prepared to play these games, which have been going on since 2002, in other words for five long years.
There is no real pressure to carry out this revision, because you were able to enact the basic regulations we now have - the measure regarding liquids in hand baggage being the prime example - on the strength of these rules.
I am not entirely sure whether this measure will remain in place for long.
There is no reason to say that it has to be scrapped now because it is blocking some other security measures.
If you want to propose new security measures, bring them before Parliament.
We are open to new proposals.
What we mean is that, besides the issue of liquids in hand baggage, on which the Committee on Transport and Tourism is to hold a hearing, we must tackle risk analysis as a matter of priority, and I hope we can do that together with you.
I have serious doubts as to whether the present Regulation actually enhances security or whether it is too heavy-handed.
But let us discuss that openly.
Please do not say, 'The intelligence people have information that they cannot pass on to us'.
We have a responsibility to the public to provide straight answers.
Your departments, and more particularly those of the Council, must be prepared to lay their cards on the table, for we will no longer tolerate the present tactics.
