on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I wish to thank Commissioner Ferrero-Waldner and Mr Gloser for what they have said, but first let me thank all the Members from the other groups for welcoming the Greens' initiative for this debate, and particularly for making it possible for us, during this part-session, to adopt a compromise motion with which we can all identify, something that I, particularly in view of the current situation, see as a good and important signal.
The Commissioner has already sketched out the various problem areas.
Let me, then, take a brief look back to twenty years ago, to 8 December 1987, when a shock went around the world, for, before the Cold War's nuclear threat had passed, the INF Treaty was signed, constituting real agreement on nuclear disarmament.
Where are we now?
It has to be said, with regret, that we have in some respects gone backwards, for both Kofi Annan and Henry Kissinger have said that the campaign against the proliferation of nuclear weapons and the efforts at nuclear disarmament are on the point of complete and final failure.
What can we in Europe do in this situation?
Do we have enough confidence to raise - multilaterally and in international fora - issues on which we can hope to see progress made?
Would it not be timely to use the forthcoming meeting of the Nuclear Supplies Group in Cape Town from 16 to 20 April as an opportunity to speak out against the planned deal between India and the USA?
If we do not do that, what kind of signal is being sent to the other states?
Are we not then saying to them, 'Build nuclear programmes and nuclear weapons, even outside the NPT, and the USA will even reward and support you'?
What kind of signal does that send to Iran?
I say that quite deliberately, and as one who takes a decidedly different view of these things.
Where Iran is concerned, we are stuck in a cul-de-sac, and we have helped ourselves get into it.
Everyone in it needs to put themselves into reverse gear in order to get back out again, or else the troops will end up being sent in.
We want to help keep this Treaty alive.
On Thursday, we will be adopting a resolution to the effect that a delegation will be sent to Vienna to actively monitor this process, and I hope that we will, there, together, enable these important NPT provisions to give signs of continued life.
