Mr President, I welcome the importance the Commission is attaching to this subject today.
The fact that two Commissioners have taken the floor clearly shows that finally even the Commission understands that we have to act here.
However, doubts remain as to the statements when reference is made in the first instance to the responsibility of the Member States and manufacturers.
Certainly the Member States bear a good proportion of responsibility and market surveillance has been scaled back in recent years in many Member States.
This is the wrong response to the challenges of globalisation.
Nevertheless, this alone is not enough.
Revision of the Toy Safety Directive is urgently needed.
When we recognise that this recall campaign is now the fourth since November 2006, it raises questions, for instance: who is actually following up these recall campaigns?
What are the sanctions in the Member States and the law on importer and producer liability achieving?
We urgently need a revision of the Toy Safety Directive, which also does real justice to the new challenges.
This directive is not a response to these new challenges.
We have to address subjects such as the law on collective action.
Mr Verheugen, you have rightly addressed the fact that we have to make clear to consumers that quality is also important and that prices and quality have to reflect this.
But then I also ask myself, of course, why consumers no longer have opportunities within their grasp, under a European law on collective action for example, for insisting that something should also be changed here in relation to costs?
I would like to delve further into the subject of CE marking.
We have discussed this at length and across the board and are familiar with the failings and limitations of this CE marking.
I think it is wrong when it is suggested to consumers that CE marking is a clear signal that the product is safe.
CE marking is primarily a statement that this label complies with European directives.
It may relate to certain parts of a product, it may relate to a whole product, but it does not reveal anything as a whole about the safety of the product.
We have a flaw here, which needs to be removed from the new Toy Safety Directive as a matter of urgency.
