Mr President, Mr Steinmeier, this euphoria is to some extent justified, but at the same time here and now is exactly the right time and place to consider whether there is anything underpinning these noble aims.
This weekend in Berlin under the aegis of the European Green Party, we will be proposing a ten-point list of measures to make Europe more climate friendly.
We will do this with greater enthusiasm than Mr Verheugen, who this morning has once again shown that he regards climate protection as a burden for the EU economy and not as a driving force of innovation.
Security of supply is important, particularly as far as natural gas is concerned.
However, building new pipelines is not the best measure that we in Europe can take.
It would be best to adopt the successful model of the German Bank for Reconstruction and transfer the funds to the European Investment Bank for modernising our housing stock!
More than 40% of European energy is frittered away in badly insulated buildings, and more than 70% of Russian natural gas is used in European buildings.
A measure to improve the efficiency of our housing stock is therefore much more important than anything that we can do on the supply side.
It is exactly the same with oil.
It is not pipelines that will help us to make progress but more modern cars.
I do not know whether Mr Juncker has any children.
Mr Schulz seems to be better informed.
What I do know is that he is getting a new official car and that as a convinced European he told the Luxembourg press on Monday that he would soon be buying a Japanese hybrid car if the European automotive industry did not build more environmentally friendly cars.
We therefore need efficiency standards for 2020, because the cars in which we will travel in 2020 are already being designed now.
We also need a speed limit in Germany because the many hundreds of kilometres of 'free travel for free citizens' are not only a German problem but a global one, because as a result cars are over-engineered the world over and are not efficient enough.
