on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I, too, wish to thank Mrs Wallis for having made some important points.
We have, this past week, heard much about the 'citizens' Europe'.
When one looks at the title of this document, one is inclined to assume that many members of the public would, at the sight of it, 'switch off' on the grounds that they regard the law on non-contractual obligations as difficult, but it is the European issue par excellence, something to which most European motorists have given thought at least once, and along these lines: 'I am from country A, am travelling through country B and meet with an accident involving a driver from country C, who may well have a person from country D travelling with him'.
Situations such as that are a regular occurrence, and we are, by means of this dossier, doing more work on a citizens' Europe.
The need to regulate such matters is made even more pressing as people become more and more mobile and borders less and less important.
There are still improvements to be made on this front.
It follows that the 'citizens' Europe' is at stake.
We have, today, already made reference to other aspects of the law that certainly come up less frequently than road accidents, namely liability for criminal acts, unfair competition and the complicated things to consider with reference to the environment.
My group will seek to keep this House's options as regards this third reading and conciliation procedure as open as possible.
We believe that there is still a lot of scope for making the regulations more suitable to their task.
I want to underline what Mrs Wallis has already said.
What this House is being asked to help decide on here is a new reality, one aspect of which will be that we will, once the outcome of the third reading is known, have to pay very close attention to those things that might well not have been legally approved, but did, at second reading in this House, gain the approval of a majority, and consider whether these things - which matter to this House - might perhaps be taken on board after all.
We have every right to await with tense anticipation what will emerge from the third reading.
We will try to get the options for a citizens' Europe kept as open as possible.
