Madam President, Commissioner, terrorism is a crime against humanity and represents the greatest threat to our society; and sadly it has already taken on a European dimension.
The question is: has the European Union taken action?
The answer is a clear 'yes', and the successes show that the measures taken have been good ones.
There have been arrests in Denmark and Germany, thank goodness.
I am obliged to Commissioner Frattini for his commitment in this regard; it shows that the Commission is on the right track.
However, we also need a review of whether our measures are effective, which measures are effective and which new ones are needed.
We should also ask ourselves whether our overall strategy is sufficient.
At all events, we should continue to work on such a strategy following the review.
This strategy is certainly needed before we can decide whether there is to be a new Counter-Terrorism Coordinator.
We must also make it clear in advance to Member States that, if there were to be another such coordinator, he or she would have to have the necessary powers and responsibilities, because otherwise we would certainly not need such a post.
I agree with many others that, at all events, we must strengthen and make use of Europol and Eurojust.
These are successful and have the instruments at their disposal.
We have taken decisions like that of yesterday on implementing rules simplifying the use of analysis files, and an explosives database is to be set up.
However, the problem is the provision of data by Member States.
I would appeal to you, President-in-Office, to exert pressure on Member States to provide data in time.
President-in-Office, you said that regular talks were being held with the United States.
This is a good thing, and makes sense, but I would entreat you to take every opportunity to render the cooperation fruitful, in the interests of both parties.
In other words, I would ask you to negotiate such that, the moment there is a suspicion of terrorism, the United States is obliged ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
