President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I once again express my special thanks to the rapporteur but also to all of you for the debate and your contributions, which have certainly underlined how important it was to launch the Barcelona process more than ten years ago and to formulate a policy for that purpose.
It was also an attempt to find new instruments.
Some of you made clear that the MEDA programme also served to promote improvements in the political situation and infrastructure in our partner countries.
When we look at certain countries on the southern fringes of the Mediterranean, it sadly becomes apparent that a good few aims have not yet been achieved.
Some of you referred to the need for greater efficiency here.
The continuation of the European Neighbourhood and Partnership Instrument, however, will play a major part in consolidating this Euro-Mediterranean dialogue.
Allow me to return to the point about the particular situation of the Palestinians.
Several of you emphasised that the Commissioner had found a way through this difficult situation, and for that she was rightly praised.
It is also important to say that we must help, but when we do help - and sometimes our approach will be driven by pragmatism - the procedure must not suddenly come under fire after three months.
I do believe, Commissioner, that a way has been found in which we can actually provide help in the current situation.
As I said yesterday at the meeting of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, there is certainly a need to distinguish a little between cause and effect.
The European Union has repeatedly said how it intends to support the process in the wider Middle East, but it has also said that its recognition of newly elected governments depends on the fulfilment of certain criteria, namely renunciation of violence, adherence to the Road Map and acceptance of the State of Israel, all of which are long-established requirements.
It is important to be aware of that.
We too have made corresponding efforts, of course.
I would not keep putting all the blame on insufficient recognition of governments or on inadequate resources.
In the Council of Foreign Ministers the European Union has just pressed for and secured an important pledge from Israel to release the frozen funds.
That certainly involved negotiations with the Palestinians too.
As the Commissioner stressed in the debate with the Foreign Ministers on Monday, very rapid results will be achieved here, because it is important to provide assistance both on the West Bank and in the Gaza Strip.
