on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by extending the warmest of thanks to the rapporteur, Mr Degutis, and all the Members involved, for their cooperation.
I firmly believe that, since the vote in committee, we have a balanced, practical report on the operation of air transport services.
The original Commission proposal was well thought-out and goal oriented in this case, so I am much obliged to the Commission, too.
Since I am basically satisfied with the outcome of the vote in committee, I should like to discuss only the transparency requirements with regard to the listing of air fares.
From the outset, I have stood up for the creation of transparency without additional bureaucracy, and for the equal, fair involvement of everyone concerned.
The air fare advertised should show clearly what charges, duties and taxes this includes and what they are used for.
Air-ticket prices should be easy for consumers to understand and transparent.
This is particularly applicable to the advertising of air fares on websites.
Nevertheless, there is still disagreement over the means, and the precise extent of this.
Amendment 48 lays down that duties and charges must be listed and summarised in four categories: firstly, taxes and other State charges and duties; secondly, air traffic control charges; thirdly, charges, duties, fees and other costs for the benefit of the airlines; and, fourthly, fees, levies, charges and other costs for the benefit of the airport operators.
The problem is that air traffic control charges cannot be clearly stated in advance.
Tomorrow, then, on behalf of my group, I shall be requesting the deletion of this second category, air traffic control charges, by means of split voting.
Despite this amendment, the compromise reached fully meets the transparency requirement, whilst taking into account the interests of passengers and also airlines, and so I and my group cannot support the rapporteur's new amendments, Amendments 54 and 55.
