Mr President, Mr Gloser, Commissioner, the Presidency-in-Office of the Council should, in my view, observe the following guidelines in its current negotiations with the United States on the transfer of airline passenger data.
Firstly, it is through a proportionate approach that an appropriate level of security will be achieved, and that approach is not apparent in the case of the current agreements.
Such an approach depends - and this is my second point - on implementing compliance with normal European data protection standards, and that in my view involves changing the status quo, mainly through reducing the quantity of behaviour-related data.
Where switching over to the push system is concerned, Austrian Airlines has, to my knowledge, operated this system from the beginning - successfully, too.
The system involves having a clearly defined framework for using the data, a limit on the period for which the data is stored and, not least, the ability to lodge a complaint in the event of data being misused.
Mr Gloser, you rightly said that we need legal certainty as quickly as possible for European airlines.
As a politician involved in transport issues, I can only concur with that.
Given that the transfer of data really is about making progress in combating terrorism, it has an international dimension, and we no doubt also need international agreements with internationally binding data protection rules.
These are what we should be negotiating towards.
We must always be concerned to uphold our right to freedom of movement, which can only be achieved in an open society in which people can move about freely without falling under general suspicion.
It would be unacceptable to us as Members of the European Parliament if the principle of equality were to be violated and if different levels of data protection were to apply to US citizens, on the one hand, and to non-Americans, on the other.
I have confidence in the determination of the German Presidency of the Council as it conducts the negotiations.
I know that these will not be a simple matter.
