on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, 2010 is just round the corner.
Given that the title of the report is 'i2010: towards a European digital library', that means that we still have a great deal of work to do and in my view, we have been dragging our feet.
I am pleased that Mrs Descamps has presented a very good report, which points the way forward and shows us what can and could be done.
However, we must all make efforts to get things moving.
The report is a challenge and a response to the new technologies, the new management of knowledge and information, and above all, young people's access to learning, information and knowledge.
We have a lot of catching up to do here and, as far as I am concerned, we really have to speed things up.
It is not only about preserving and safeguarding cultural heritage.
Every day, new things arise that we must add to the equation, for things that were invented and written down only yesterday will be our cultural heritage tomorrow.
That means that we have a great deal of ground to make up.
However, we must always look ahead at the same time, to be able to keep pace with developments.
It will be very important to coordinate the process and urge countries - as has just been said - to put national sensitivities behind them and to move forward together along a European path to safeguard cultural diversity.
There are hurdles to overcome.
The first is the financial shortfall that we face.
The Commissioner was right to talk about this.
All the ministers and presidents are very good at giving big speeches and are proud of our cultural diversity, but when it comes to funding and implementation, they quickly pull back and forget all about the pride that they have been propounding.
From my perspective, it is also very important to safeguard copyright, so there needs to be an agreement with the authors and publishers and everyone else involved, so that for an appropriate fee the information can be put on the Internet for people to access.
I think that we have a lot to think about here.
It is certainly no easy task, but the proposals are on the table and the countries could gain a lot.
I am convinced that we can achieve a positive vote on this report tomorrow.
In my view, we must use the new technologies and support this project in order not only to facilitate access for us as Europeans but also to carry our culture far out into the world.
