on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur, Richard Seeber, for the cooperative spirit in which our discussions took place.
He has negotiated a robust compromise with the Council Presidency, a compromise that makes significant improvements to the proposal from the Commission.
It is important to adopt a European approach to the prevention of flood damage.
Rivers and floods are no respecters of national borders.
The measures taken by the government of a country on the upper reaches of a river have specific effects on territories further downstream.
In many cases these territories belong to another country.
For this reason I consider it important that each and every Member State of the European Union should take preventive anti-flood measures rather than waiting until a disaster occurs.
As with other proposals from the Commission, it is our parliamentary duty to ensure that unnecessary red tape, excessive administrative input and pervasive reporting obligations are avoided.
We managed to prevent and considerably improve a number of excessively bureaucratic provisions.
I particularly approve of the compromise safeguarding flood plans and maps that already exist or are being prepared.
Thanks to our intervention, all maps and plans already compiled by the Member States are now recognised along with those that are in the course of preparation, provided they are completed by the end of 2010.
The process of drawing and producing these flood maps is in full swing in some countries.
Moving the goalposts at this stage would have caused unnecessary duplication of effort, and the new tendering procedure would have generated a great deal of additional expense without any recognisable benefit in terms of better flood prevention.
For this reason I am pleased that the compromise provides for the possibility of recognising these maps and plans in the framework of the Directive.
I shall therefore vote for the compromise, and may I once again thank the rapporteur for our constructive cooperation.
