on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, Mr Gloser, Mr Frattini, I have to say how astonished I am that, in your remarks about the PNR negotiations, you made no mention of the Automatic Targeting System (ATS).
I, for my part, wonder how it can have come about that a system like ATS, which was originally designed and implemented for freight, could, for years, have been used, in conjunction with PNR data, for passengers, and this without anyone knowing.
While we have been negotiating agreements with the United States in order to guarantee the protection of our citizens' fundamental rights, a system such as this has, at the same time, been operating behind the scenes.
The USA now assures us that ATS is compatible with the present, as well the previous, PNR agreements.
That being said, I want to state very clearly that assurances of this kind are not enough for me.
For me, it is not obvious how 40 years' data storage using the ATS system is compatible with the PNR Agreement.
There is also the fact that ATS can apparently be used for any old purpose.
How, then, can this be compatible with the obligations under the PNR Agreement, whereby PNR data is only allowed to be used for the purpose of combating terrorism and other serious crimes?
We have not so far received any convincing answers to any of these questions, any more than we have to the question of why the ATS system was kept secret at all.
How, during the negotiations for the PNR Agreement, could the United States conceal such essential information from its partner?
One would probably be justified in asking how it might be guaranteed that there are no further ATS-style systems that we simply know nothing about.
With regard to the new PNR Agreement, I should expressly like to support what my fellow Member, Mr Cavada, said, namely that the number of transferable items of information about airline passengers needs to be significantly reduced.
It must be guaranteed that the US customs and border protection authorities are not just passing on data willy-nilly to any old authority involved in the fight against terrorism.
What is more, we must, as the European Union, insist that European citizens be given the same opportunities for safeguarding their rights as are American citizens.
