Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, speaking earlier, Mr Catania said that the European public was afraid that the rule of law was disintegrating.
The European public reads in today's newspapers of the arrest of terrorists in Denmark who had made definite plans for attacks.
The German public awoke today to the news that three terrorists had been planning an attack on Frankfurt am Main airport.
The public is afraid.
It is worried.
Terrorism in Europe has caused deaths and a great deal of suffering.
The public expects to be safe.
Tackling this is our task as European politicians.
What is the European response?
Hearing the President-in-Office of the Council today, I realised that stagnation and paralysis have taken hold here.
I am disappointed.
As we know, terrorism is networked across Europe.
The cells cooperate by means of the Internet and using various methods.
The Ministers of the Interior are doing their own thing at national level and believing that they have things under control.
I, too, am in favour of an evaluation and of our now putting to the test the measures we have implemented, but we also need new momentum.
Terrorism has not been defeated.
We need a fresh start.
That is why the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats supports the Commission's initiatives.
Terrorism is directed at our way of life, and therefore I should like to emphasise that combating it is a cultural challenge.
For example, Europe stands for gender equality, so we want no forced marriages in Europe.
Anyone forcing young girls into marriage must be punished.
Europe stands for tolerance, and so we want no preachers of hate, with their condemnation of other religions.
I am in favour of expelling such people from Europe.
I would say to all preachers: no god approves of murder.
I would ask that today's debate be used to give backing to the Council and, in particular, to our Commission, which has put forward good proposals, so as to generate new momentum.
