Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, many speakers have emphasised the many opportunities that lie before us, and they are of course right to do so, for not for some time have we had such an opportunity as we have right now to make a start on new things.
The great post-Lisbon problem was, of course, that growth rates caved in, not least because the Member States had not done enough.
Growth has now returned to the European Union, but what are we going to do with it?
Growth does not happen on its own; long-term satisfactory growth will not be there unless we act.
Yes, of course, the single market is a powerful instrument; 90% of what we manufacture we - our companies and the members of the public - buy back within the European Union, and that is a good thing, for it makes us a strong international player, but - as Mr Hughes has pointed out - we have now reached the point at which we have to get people back to work, and not by exerting pressure, nor by excluding anyone, but by means of better education and training, and by providing new opportunities.
That is what the debate has to be about; it has to be about how we have to move that forward together, take it seriously and put it into practice back home in the Member States, but if we are to do that we need better coordination.
Coordination, when applied to economic policy, must not be a dirty word in these halls.
If we cannot even bring in a unitary tax base, we have no business sounding off so much about other things, and that is the sort of debate we have to have back home as well.
Mr Lehne tells us that we have to do something for business in order then to be able to do something for the environment; well, I do not agree.
That is old thinking of a kind that is not equal to coping with the efficiency revolution that lies in store for our businesses.
It is that old thinking that got many of us into the dead end of nuclear energy, a dead end from which we need to escape, and that is why we need to argue and debate more with one another.
