Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would just like to pick up on a number of things that have been mentioned, of which the cutting back of bureaucracy is but one.
Today, at midday in this plenary, we annulled two directives, but I do, even so, think we all need to make a bit more of an effort, and I also believe that there is a need for a mechanism with the aid of which we can together work out which directives really are superfluous.
This laborious procedure, whereby the Commission prepares something, the Council's assent is then required and then at length we in this House have a say in the matter, is one that I do not regard as efficient.
I think that we would, together, be able to annul superfluous directives much more quickly if a proper system were in place for it, and I would also be glad of participation in this subject on the part of the Commissioner with responsibility for this matter.
There is a second matter that I would like briefly to address.
This year, we will have to come to a decision on a piece of legislation liberalising the market in postal services, something that is of great importance in relation to the internal market.
The proposals made by the Commission are indicative of its great commitment to this.
We in this House will endeavour to get through first reading as quickly as possible, and I hope that the Council will take those things that are going to be enacted at the March European Council - splendid headings, flowery language and all - and put them into practical effect in the legislation on the opening up of the markets in postal services, that being an area in which that really is urgently necessary, since, if we want to achieve growth, create jobs, and foster social security, we will not find a solution in the monopoly model that has hitherto held sway in Europe.
I await the Council's proposals with eagerness and am particularly keen to see the government of the Federal Republic of Germany pursue the path to which it has committed itself rather than fall to its knees.
I have heard many interesting things said today about energy policy, and will permit myself one final comment on that subject.
What I will say to Mrs Harms is that I find it quite shameful that the energy policy of the Social Democrats and the Greens will have contributed to an increase in the amount of CO2 emitted in Germany, so I would ask her not to lecture this House on what is to be done about it.
In the seven years in which you had responsibility for these things, you - Mrs Harms - did the precise opposite of what you are preaching to us.
