on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by emphasising once more that what we are discussing here is an own-initiative report that represents the response of the European Parliament to the Commission Communication regarding the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine.
In my capacity as rapporteur for the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, I can say that the Commission is right to regard strengthening the innovative capacity and competitiveness of the wine sector in Europe and worldwide as the primary objective of this reform.
Promotional and information campaigns to encourage responsible consumption of wine form part of this.
We consider it indispensable for the intensive pursuit of these objectives that the entire funding of the wine sector remain under the first pillar.
In this connection, we warmly welcome the fact that the new rules will be applied according to the principle of subsidiarity by transposing them into national programmes approved by the Commission.
Grubbing-up and permanent abandonment of vineyards may form part of this reform, but they must not be the central part.
Likewise, before assigning new planting rights, the situation in the individual wine-growing regions with regard to illegal plantings should be examined.
If we are to achieve an ambitious, forward-looking trade policy for wines, we must take a tailored approach in thinking about the present funding.
The present distillation, representing EUR 600 million out of a total of EUR 1.4 billion, is certainly not an option for the future.
Nevertheless, we believe that support for the distillation of wine by-products and potable-alcohol distillation should be retained.
The compromise on the wine-growing traditions of the individual Member States consists in respect for the various traditions - and enrichment with sucrose also ranks among traditional oenological practices.
In addition to its economic value, wine-growing forms part of the cultural heritage of the various regions of the EU.
The new challenges necessitate rules that enable sustainability and also sustainable competitiveness.
We should make these things our objective.
