Mr President, today we received news of the arrest of suspected terrorists in Denmark and Germany that has been mentioned many times.
This demonstrates that the problem in question is not theoretical, but real.
This being the case, the motto 'the more, the better' cannot be the order of the day; instead, we need targeted measures that are coordinated throughout Europe and, above all, prove to be worthwhile in practice and to indeed be helpful.
This brings me to my first point, namely the urgent need for an overview of the measures that have been taken to date by the nation states.
I welcome the Commissioner's announcement that a questionnaire is to be drawn up.
We need this evaluation, precisely because we wish to convince our citizens of the necessity of counter-terrorism measures.
However, to do so, we must prove that they are indeed effective.
After all, we wish to know what has been achieved to date in the fight against terrorism.
In this connection, we are also interested in the regrettable refusal to take a position on the illegal kidnappings in Europe by the CIA thus far.
We need answers on this score, too.
I should like to make one thing clear: secret prisons and extraditions to third countries where torture is carried out are also connected with the fight against terrorism, namely its moral dimension.
The moral dimension of the fight against terrorism must not be neglected, as we must prevail there, too, if we want to succeed.
Some speakers have mentioned the importance of involving the European Parliament in this debate.
I believe that the Council Presidency needs to understand that the involvement of freely elected people's representatives is indispensable for the purposes of acceptance.
I should like the Council Presidency to strengthen this aspect of the discussion.
As the President-in-Office knows, the European Court of Justice has decided repeatedly that the EU list of terrorist organisations infringes both Community and international law.
I welcome his comments on this issue today.
I am also interested to hear, however, whether the annual evaluations of which he spoke are to be made available to Parliament and the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
After all, we need these for our work, to enable us to really assess what happens with this 'terror list', the extent to which the rule of law and parliamentary control are ensured, and to what extent it can be guaranteed that those appearing wrongfully on this list will be removed from it as soon as possible.
The issue of the EU Counter-Terrorism Coordinator has already been raised.
We want to know the future plans for this post.
My group is not against such European coordination in principle.
It makes sense in theory to consolidate competences in this field, to endeavour to bring together the experiences gathered at national level.
We are also interested to hear, however, what the Council Presidency has to say about the work done to date by the counter-terrorism unit at European level.
What kind of experiences have there been with it?
Hence my question to the President-in-Office: what lessons have you learned from the work done to date by Mr de Vries?
