Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, colleagues, the first thing I must do is to thank the rapporteur, Jacques Toubon, who was also responsible for working out our own position in the EPP-ED Group, in close cooperation with representatives of Member States in northern, southern, eastern and western Europe.
We had a good exchange of views and we are agreed that the positive aspects of the internal market extend well beyond what is in the realm of general public knowledge, and also beyond what has been recognised in certain debates here in Parliament.
We are also agreed that the Commission and its public relations services will have a major role to play in making working people more aware of the market's inherent advantages.
In my view, in the light of the merger between Suez and Gaz de France, the Internal Market Test - which is proposed in this report and which we in the EPP-ED Group support - could very usefully be transposed into national legislation.
It would also be entirely reasonable to ask whether mergers such as this, or other developments at Member State level, might not usefully be subject to a similar test, in order to check their impact on the internal market and to explore whether or not, within that market, they bring advantages for ordinary people.
We also inserted into the report a passage on services of general interest, which undoubtedly now makes sense in the light of the new legal basis created by the Reform Treaty, as already mentioned.
We are agreed, too, that the internal market is Europe's key asset in the process of globalisation.
Only a properly functioning internal market can afford protection against certain developments in international markets.
For we cannot rely solely on monitoring systems, Ms Rühle, relevant though they may have been in relation to some toy manufacturers' recalls: we also need to appeal to the pride and the characteristic quality of our own European manufacturers because we shall never be capable of monitoring everything.
We are keen to see what the Commission will propose in response to this report, in the Single Market Review this autumn, and we hope we shall be in a position to take further decisions about the right course for the internal market on the basis of the report which the Commission adopts at that stage.
