Madam President, Commissioner Fischer Boel, ladies and gentlemen, as our Council President, Angela Merkel, said in her speech in this House on 17 January, 'what distinguishes Europe, that which constitutes its soul, is the way we handle our diversity' and 'Europe's soul is tolerance'.
In recent weeks and months, we have held many discussions on the proposals for reforming the market in wine.
North and south, the individual wine-growing regions - a wide variety of opinions and interests have been represented.
Each of us believes that, if we could have written the Batzeli report ourselves, we would have done it differently, made it more specific, more succinct.
Nevertheless, we have managed to moderate all interests so that everyone can support them.
It is a compromise, then, which not only tolerates but also respects the diversity of the European wine sector, and develops it further - albeit in small steps.
The Commissioner has taken the trouble to visit many wine-producing regions in recent months, and for that I am obliged to her.
She has seen how different the regions are.
In the field of wine, in particular, we need more scope to determine things at national and regional level.
We also need national budgets under the first pillar, on the basis of which the appropriate measures can be selected from an EU catalogue of measures for wine in the regions and subsequently implemented.
We agree that we do not want to give up, we do not want to grub up 400 000 hectares.
We want to fight for market shares, for our jobs, our cultural landscape, the European lifestyle.
Wine is part of Europe and we must maintain its traditions and thus also long-established oenological practices.
Our competitors around the world are waiting in the wings to supply what we no longer produce.
There is one thing the discussion has made clear, and that is that Rome was not built in a day: we need staying power.
Our policies need to be reliable.
In the long term, however, our measures must be adapted in response to the market.
