Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to apologise for the fact I have to leave as soon as I have finished speaking, as I have to go and chair something.
I know that is impolite, but I would ask you to understand and bear with me.
It is not, of course, a matter of doubt that Israel is entitled to defend itself against the Kassam missiles, for firing them at civilian facilities and persons is a crime.
It is a provocation to Israel, but also to the government currently in power in Palestine.
One might even say that that is the main object of the exercise - and what is the European Union doing about it?
I regret to have to tell Mr Gloser that the answer he has given - on behalf of the Council presidency, of course - is quite utterly unsatisfactory, no less so than the one given at the last debate.
We are doing nothing to strengthen the hand of those forces that alone are capable of taking action against these terrorists.
Our statements will change nothing, nor, alas, will Israel's retaliatory military actions, justified though they may be in individual cases, if the European Union does not give this government a chance.
I say 'government', for it is cynical to decide which individual ministers one will meet with and which one to avoid; I did mention last time round that the President of the Council was having meetings with the Israeli foreign minister, but, when it came to meeting his Palestinian counterpart, claimed that she was not in the habit of meeting foreign ministers.
That way of going about things is not really going to produce results.
While I have no desire to make life difficult for the Commissioner for Foreign Relations, she did in fact talk in terms of supporting the government rather than individual ministers, and while the pair of them say we have to support Abbas, they are not actually doing so by denying their backing to his government and failing to enable it to take action against terrorism and those who engage in it.
That is the problem; if Europe does not commit itself to doing that all these talks will avail us nothing, since peace can be established only from within, and there will be peace only if there are, in Palestine, strong forces that can enforce their will by reason of their getting support - be it political, moral or financial - from the European Union in their fight against the terrorists.
That will help both Palestine and Israel.
Let me say once again that, if you want to help Israel, you have to give this government a chance.
Nothing else is worthy of being taken seriously.
