author. - Mr President, although this resolution on the situation of refugees from and in Iraq is a very sound one, it is silent on the central issue, namely the reasons why there are refugees in and from Iraq.
The primary reason is the occupation of Iraq by troops from the US, the UK and other EU Member States, and, above all, the nature of that occupation.
If you pursue a policy of occupation of this nature, you should not be surprised when it generates refugees.
Despite Germany's restrictive asylum policy, people from Iraq now form the largest group of asylum-seekers in that country.
According to figures from the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR), there are 1.7 million refugees within Iraq and a further 2 million in neighbouring countries.
These people are fleeing because Iraq is in a state of war.
The Bloomberg School of Public Health and the Johns Hopkins University have presented a study, published in the New York Times and the Washington Post, which estimated the number of Iraqis over and above the normal mortality rate who died as a result of the invasion and its consequences between March 2003 and July 2006 to be 650 000.
Of these, the estimates count 600 000 people who have died as a direct result of violence and 50 000 who have died as a result of disease and other causes.
The study goes on to say that, after the end of the invasion, 31% of the victims were believed to have been killed by coalition troops or air raids.
According to the Johns Hopkins University, the risk of dying a violent death is 58 times higher than before the invasion.
What I want to say to this House is that these figures show that the occupation of Iraq is wrong and must finally be brought to an end.
The collective support of this war by a number of EU Member States, including Germany, must cease.
If that happened, there would not, in fact, be as many people who have to flee as there are at present, as has been quite properly stated in the resolution.
