Mr President, 2001-2007 has been six years of a politically motivated fight against terrorism.
The only thing we have seen in these six years is the quest for a policy response to every measure taken.
What I cannot make out, however, is an approach with regard to the development of European counter-terrorism policy in a global context.
What role are we playing?
What role do we want to play worldwide?
Do we have an underlying plan?
To date, I have seen no plan or paper, either from the Commission or the Council - or, incidentally, from any Member State - proposing a short-, medium- and long-term counter-terrorism strategy.
We have launched measures with short-term effect, stemming financial flows - which has been excellent.
We have launched measures aiming to combat terrorism in the medium term by including biometric data in identity documents - which I, personally, do not consider to be the right approach, but was decided by a political majority.
With regard to the long term, I cannot see any progress or movement in the field of development assistance, which can be understood in the sense of security policy.
Nor do I see any movement in terms of respect for those cultures in which terrorism can supposedly originate; that is, in terms of our making efforts to live a globalised existence, to coexist decently with each other in a globalised world, rather than going out and trying to communicate our society to the rest of the world.
The question, therefore, is: what role will Europe adopt?
The response since 11 September 2001 has consisted of manifold actionism: each time there is an attack, the respective governments have endeavoured to reassure the population by launching short-term measures, be it the British vehemence in pushing through data retention in the immediate aftermath of the tragic attacks in London, or Germany's endeavours to push through online searches.
There is a lack of an underlying plan.
Infringements of fundamental rights, as in the times of the emergency laws, will not solve the problem alone.
If we wish to combat terrorism successfully we must define Europe's worldwide role in this fight, rather than pursuing national actionism, which is then carried out only in Europe.
