My first duty must be to thank the Father of the House, Mr Berlinguer, for having conducted this election so worthily and so well.
For that he deserves our warm thanks.
(Applause)
Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank you all most sincerely for having given me the great, but also difficult and responsible, task of presiding over the European Parliament.
I will endeavour, with all my strength, to serve the citizens of the European Union, democracy and parliamentary government.
I wish to play my part in building a democratic European Union that is strong and effective at home and throughout the world.
In dedicating myself to this, I shall be guided by the principles of human dignity, observance of the law and the affirmation of solidarity between the peoples of the European Union.
To the citizens of the Union, I wish to say that it is only together that our peoples stand a chance of defending our values and interests in the world at large.
(Applause)
Ladies and gentlemen, I am delighted to be able to say that the President of that institution that has done so much for the cause of European values and will continue to do so, one with which we want to work well, is present with us in this House today.
The person to whom I refer is Mr René van der Linden, the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and I bid him a warm welcome.
I propose to present my work programme to this House on Tuesday 13 February at 10 a.m.; that is of course conditional on the group chairmen - powerful people that they are - agreeing to it.
The President of the European Parliament is bound by their decisions.
I will be inviting the Presidents of all the European Union institutions and all former Presidents of this House to attend on that occasion.
My intention in so doing is to express the truth that, wherever we may stand politically, and by whatever convictions and ideals we may be guided, we are bound by the determined will to make, whilst retaining the identities of our peoples, the European Union an ever-closer union of peoples of the kind prescribed by the Treaties.
Right now, I should like, on behalf of us all, to thank my predecessor in office, Mr Borrell Fontelles, for his tireless endeavours, and I do this for a particular and personal reason, in that, in my former role as a group chairman, I had constant dealings, and a fruitful relationship, with him, so my heartfelt thanks go to Josep Borrell.
(Applause)
Now, ladies and gentlemen, I look forward to working with you in this new function, in which I shall endeavour to be a fair and objective President of your House, and I would also ask you to be fair and objective in judging how I do the job.
Thank you very much.
(Applause)
We now have a series of speeches from the group chairmen, and I give the floor to the chairman of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, Mr Joseph Daul, whom I warmly congratulate on his election.
