on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kyprianou, I am most disappointed, because, like Mrs Scheele, I was expecting answers this evening about when we will finally have higher standards for risk assessment.
I have been asking the Commission specific questions about these safety issues for months and getting no answers; then officials tell me in private that they are not in a position to give those answers.
The French scientists' independent study is not the only one to come to the alarming conclusion that Monsanto 863 is unsafe and is an alarming threat to health and that it is irresponsible to leave it on the market any longer.
A study has also been made in Austria.
There are alarming concerns in the Member States.
We cannot just deny that and stick our heads in the sand.
I would have liked to receive answers from you today about the fact that the European Medicines Agency also sees a risk with the two antibiotic resistance genes, not only in MON 863, but also in the Amflora potato, authorisation of which has now been applied for.
Even your own EU institution is contradicting EFSA.
We really must have answers from you on this, Mr Kyprianou!
You cannot simply say that you are not going to answer.
Even the Council has called on you to comment.
I find it curious that EFSA needed three months to evaluate the Séralini study.
Incidentally, Mr Séralini will be here in Parliament on Wednesday and will then tell us clearly whether EFSA's all-clear, its whitewashing, is really justified.
We do know that the EFSA studies make repeated references to Monsanto.
They contain statistical errors.
That has been pointed out not only by the French research team but by many Member States as well.
We are looking to you for answers as to how these mistakes can be remedied in future, how we are to deal with them, what value, if any, should be put on the precautionary principle.
We need a reassessment.
I would like you to tell me, Mr Kyprianou, in no uncertain terms: will MON 863 be reassessed?
All EFSA has done is to look at the old data again.
It has not carried out a reassessment at all.
That is a very crucial question, to which we need an answer!
(The President cut off the speaker)
