Mr President, the situation in Darfur remains shocking.
The response of the international community has been wholly inadequate.
The previous speakers have described the situation adequately: there is no improvement in sight for the people there.
Some necessary resolutions have been passed, such as United Nations Security Council Resolution 1706, but their implementation ultimately fails on account of the Government in Khartoum, most of whose leaders are no doubt listed in the files of the International Criminal Court - which launched an investigation into crimes in Darfur as early as June 2005.
We have a situation where the United Nations has to take action, in accordance with its responsibility for protecting human beings, since the Government of Sudan has not been protecting the people of Darfur against war crimes and crimes against humanity, nor has it lent them any assistance.
For this reason, Parliament calls on the United Nations to set a date for the deployment of a UN peacekeeping force pursuant to Article 7 of the Charter of the United Nations, even if this has not been approved by the Khartoum regime.
We call on the Council and the Commission to do everything in their power to put an end to this sustained humanitarian disaster.
Concrete action can be launched for the short term without great expense.
The EU should impose personal sanctions on representatives of the regime unilaterally rather than waiting for the rest of the international community.
I have always been in favour of this as a means of preventing family members going on shopping trips to Europe.
The Darfur regime has thus far been ignoring the no-fly zone imposed by Security Council Resolution 1591, and is continuing to bomb villages in Darfur.
We call for the use of capabilities available in the region to enforce this no-fly zone.
After all, we know which Member States have aircraft based in the region - not to say the immediate vicinity.
Why are these not being used in the services of the UN?
The EU must agree to this, at least.
We should also give those in power in Khartoum to understand that they should not rely overly on forces outside Africa.
The Sudanese Government is skating on very thin ice, and should not exhaust African solidarity.
Two warning shots have already been fired.
The ACP Summit in Khartoum was the summit attended by the fewest Heads of State or Government - a clear sign of displeasure.
The fact that the AU Summit opted for President Kufuor instead of the Sudanese President was a further clear indication of disapproval.
