Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, let me make a few comments.
Only a few, because I agree with what both the Commission President and the President-in-Office of the Council have said regarding the Intergovernmental Conference.
The Intergovernmental Conference is tasked with doing as little as possible.
Its role is to keep to the IGC mandate, not to develop new ideas.
I can think of many things that should also be included in a Treaty of this type.
I know that some elements that were in the Constitution are missing, but this is a historical moment in which what has been agreed has to be transformed into a legally-binding document.
For this reason, we feel that we should support the Presidency in their clear commitment to the mandate in order to get the job done as soon as possible.
Whilst I think that symbols and many other elements - particularly transparency - have been lost, since the Convention, which also had input from national parliamentary representatives, we have had more democracy and greater efficiency.
Efficiency has been improved through more majority voting, through the rules on foreign and security policy and a few other areas.
There is still room for improvement, but this is better than the current situation.
Wherever majority voting applies, the European Parliament has the power of codecision.
If this Treaty becomes reality, the European Parliament will have equal powers of codecision in 90-95% of cases.
Some things have been forgotten: in future, the European Council, on the basis of a qualified majority, will propose a candidate for election as Commission President to the European Parliament in the light of the results of the European election and after consultations with the European Parliament.
This will increase citizens' rights, because, through the Parliament, citizens will have a direct line to the Commission thereby generating considerable legitimacy.
This marks a significant step forward, and ties in with the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
If we speak out for certain values worldwide, we also have to apply those values ourselves and make them legally binding.
This is why a binding Charter of Fundamental Rights is so vital for citizens' rights.
The only ones who have been cheated are the British citizens.
