President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr President, many thanks for the opportunity to join this debate again briefly.
I do not want to comment on it at great length, but primarily to express my thanks for the contributions.
At the same time, however, Mr Leinen, the debate has made clear that it is really not easy to agree on the substance of the values to be included in this Berlin Declaration.
The range of expectations - from those relating more to procedure such as the Community method on the one hand, to those concerning ambitious climate targets and freedom of sexual orientation, Mr Cohn-Bendit, on the other - revealed by this debate just goes to show the difficulty of incorporating everything in a two-page Berlin Declaration.
I can assure you, however, that, if we endeavour to reflect the range of expectations expressed in this debate reasonably fairly whilst taking account of the history of the EU, there will be a little something for everyone.
We have drawn up documents together in the last 50 years that we can refer to.
After all, discussions between Parliament, the Commission and the Member States are held not only for the purposes of drawing up a Berlin Declaration, but also so that we can draw on what we have learned in our ambitious attempt to take stock of the EU and the challenges for the future.
I should like to set one thing straight for the benefit of Mr Cohn-Bendit, who showed us a small example of demagogy.
Of course I would not be quite so naive as to discuss the fight against illegal migration in my speech.
I understand that you needed this as a model, as it were, to orient your speech around, but I had in fact been speaking about the freedom of human beings and civil rights, and mentioned the need for a common approach to illegal migration in this context - which is no small difference.
I would ask you to bear this in mind in future.
You can be assured that someone who lives in Berlin not by chance but because his heart lies there also understands a little of the problems that migration and immigration entail and has some sense of the duty we nation states have to gear our policies towards them.
(Applause)
To the rest of the House I would say that what I have heard here today is really not so far removed from the discussion that you, Mr President, had with the Heads of State or Government of the Member States at last week's dinner.
I have the impression that 90% of the desires and expectations expressed here match the key words and calls expressed in the discussion last Thursday evening, and so there is no need to fear our omitting any significant points in our ambitious attempt to form these desires and expectations into a Berlin Declaration.
Of course, we do have the job of putting this in a form that meets the expectation that it be generally comprehensible.
Mr Leinen, this also goes for the Community method.
Although I am well aware that 'Community method' is a set phrase with connotations that mean something in circles of Euro-experts, phrases like this cannot feature as such in the text, but must be 'translated'.
Nevertheless, we shall ensure that the spirit of such expectations is included.
(Applause)
