Mr President, Commissioner, it is said regularly - in the Commissioner's speeches, for example - that Europe should concentrate on the essentials and that our aim is to bring Europe closer to its citizens.
After all, Europe - particularly the Commission, of course - is judged on the extent to which it backs up its words with action.
Take bureaucracy reduction, for example - the Commission's flagship.
Looking back over recent weeks, I note that the Commission has presented a new strategy on health at work for the next five years, with particular regard to small and medium-sized enterprises, which identifies SMEs as the scene of most incidents.
These will undoubtedly have to reckon with requirements to match in the near future.
Take consumer protection: there is now a Green Paper on this that makes the relevant stipulations.
I think it is good that the Commission is giving thought to where unnecessary bureaucracy can be eliminated.
Commissioner, the best kind of bureaucracy reduction starts with the absence of bureaucracy creation.
The Commission has simply failed in this regard in recent years, in that it has continuously presented new legislative proposals.
On the other hand - and the Commission's stubbornness in ignoring Parliament's words is astonishing - we are stipulating all the records insurance intermediaries will have to keep in future when negotiating with consumers about the relevant products.
In terms of the suggestion that we examine the issue of hedge funds without calling for regulation - the risks concerned have been regularly mentioned by Jean-Claude Trichet of the European Central Bank in this House and by the central banks around the world - there is no mention of this in the Commission's plan for 2008.
The Commissioner's colleague Mr McCreevy is not doing anything in the areas that present real risks - which smacks of neglect of duty.
We are not calling for regulation, but simply for an analysis of the status quo.
The strategy paper says nothing about this; nothing is being done in this field - which is indeed astonishing.
This is strongly reminiscent of clientele politics for the benefit of certain regions of the world.
