rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me take a moment to thank my friend Jacques Barrot for repeatedly confronting the problems involved in transalpine freight haulage and for being our comrade-in-arms on the long march towards the solution of these problems.
Today, however, we are speaking about floods and what can be done about them at the European level.
At this juncture I wish to thank Commissioner Dimas and his staff, the shadow rapporteurs and the German Presidency, all of whom have worked very constructively with me to achieve an agreement at second reading, a far-reaching agreement that covers all the key issues.
I need hardly remind you that floods have become the commonest form of natural disaster in Europe.
In 2002 and 2005 we had raging floods with devastating effects.
They claimed people's lives and caused serious damage to housing and infrastructure.
Those floods hit us hard.
There is sound scientific evidence that heavy rainfall is becoming increasingly frequent and severe and that this trend is directly linked to human activity.
The first reason lies in concentrated urbanisation, especially in high-risk areas, with the development of built-up areas and streets, river realignments and ill-considered construction schemes on flood plains.
The second reason is deforestation, especially the authorised clearing of river valleys for developments such as the construction of holiday chalets but also for industrial estates and shopping centres.
Thirdly, highly intensive farming practices result in topsoil being sealed in concrete and reduce the availability of meadows and flood plains.
Fourthly, we have the phenomenon of soil erosion, which is also a contributory factor.
Following the catastrophic floods in 2002, the Commission presented a flood-response programme, which included provision for improvements in research and information.
The Commission also presented a Communication on flood-risk management, which analysed the situation and proposed a concerted EU action programme.
One of the components of that programme is the present proposal for a directive that has now culminated in the compromise package on which we shall vote tomorrow with a view to reducing the flood-related risks to human health, the environment, the infrastructure and the economy.
In view of the increased risk of flood-induced damage, it is truly essential to create a European regulatory framework alongside the national rules, because the great majority of rivers flow across national borders.
A total of 80% of Europe's rivers are not confined to a single country but straddle national borders.
It therefore went without saying that Europe had to respond to the flood problem.
This also means, however, that due consideration must be given to the subsidiarity principle in this legislation.
The fact is that conditions in a narrow Alpine valley differ from those on a Greek island or in the Finnish lowlands.
We must take care to avoid the adoption of blanket provisions that cannot be applied in the real world.
The package on the table wisely provides for three steps.
The first is an initial identification of the places where flood risks actually exist.
It would, of course, be pointless to establish flood defences in places where there is no specific risk.
The second step is the production of flood maps, and the third is the formulation of flood-risk management plans, but only where these are absolutely necessary.
Many Member States have already made great progress in the realm of flood prevention, and we also had to take care to avoid any duplication of effort.
This is why there are very comprehensive rules designed to safeguard existing arrangements, and Member States need have no fear of being compelled to implement a second set of measures.
Their own chosen measures can, of course, be implemented in full, as long as they are consistent with the aims of the Directive.
The Council's common position contained a few points which, in our opinion, required improvement.
In particular, we could not figure out why the phenomenon of climate change had received so little attention.
In our negotiations with the Council, we have succeeded in incorporating the issue of climate change, which now runs like a thread through the entire package.
That is only right and proper, for we must be seen to respond to public concerns.
To sum up the remainder of our efforts, there have been some changes in time limits, we have placed stronger emphasis on flood plains and other natural retention areas, and we have made the case for sustainable land use and asserted the principle of solidarity from start to finish.
The rule is that those on the upper reaches must not take any action that is detrimental to their downstream neighbours.
We managed to achieve this in a spirit of good European solidarity.
I can now present the report to the House with a clear conscience tomorrow, and I commend it to you.
