Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the EU must think carefully about how to better defend its own interests.
The strategy of making early concessions in the hope of later benefits will certainly not work.
Instead, the rules must be observed in the interests of free, fair competition.
Unfair trade practices should not be tolerated, and therefore, without a doubt, effective trade defence instruments form an integral part of the European strategy for competitiveness.
In this sense, I wholeheartedly agree with Mr Glattfelder: the defence instruments must not be further watered down.
As I see it, Commissioner, the timing of the Green Paper is very unfortunate, as the results of the current multilateral negotiations on trade defence instruments should not be forestalled.
There should be no reforms in Europe before the conclusion of these negotiations, whether successful - which I hope - or not.
The second thing I want to say is that the present instruments have fundamentally proved their worth.
If there have to be reforms at all, these should be geared towards improving the existing system.
We need to make a clear distinction - as the Commissioner rightly mentioned - between real dumping on the one hand and pricing in line with competition law on the other.
Anti-dumping measures must not be abused for protectionist purposes.
On the other hand, however, the long-term preservation of European production should not be sacrificed to apparent short-term consumer interests.
From the procedural point of view, it must be ensured that the assessment of cases is as objective as possible, and not influenced by specific national interests in the Council.
It is my firm conviction that, whilst third countries are making intensive use - often abuse - of trade defence instruments against us, we must not relax ours.
All of this is possible under the existing rules if they are just applied correctly, and so I would ask the Commissioner to be very sensitive in this regard, and I would recommend to him the stimulating reading that is my latest draft report on external trade strategy, in which I also discuss the subject of trade defence instruments.
