Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen tragic events in Madrid and London.
We have seen attacks fail, for example because of the discovery or failed detonation of suitcases, as happened in Germany.
Moreover, in recent days we have again seen efficient police work head off attacks in good time, such as today's news also from Germany.
This makes it clear, of course, that terrorism is a real and great danger, and it is without doubt one of our key tasks as politicians to protect people, to protect human life.
Many of my fellow Members have argued today that one or other of the measures is borderline, and that we must consider whether it represents an excessive threat to civil and fundamental rights.
I consider this a valid question, and agree that this must be examined in earnest, but this examination must not be drawn out for so long that potential measures that are necessary are debated to death.
I believe that we bear responsibility to protect people and human life, and that is the most important thing.
That is our top priority, and therefore I call on us as political leaders to advocate the necessary measures rather than discuss them to death or, for example, forget amid all the criticism to win people over to them - because there is no alternative to them.
I have no time for those contributions to the debate that offset, as it were, any behaviour on the part of the United States or other countries in this regard.
I do not understand this.
It is our duty to protect human life and to implement the necessary measures, and I am obliged to the Commissioner for the further, very specific, proposals he has made today.
I am obliged to those who have said that we must weigh up whether our measures actually do what they are supposed to do.
I am firmly on the side of those who advocate a careful review of whether new institutions are necessary, or whether these tasks cannot also be done very well by existing institutions.
The fight against terrorism plays a vital role, and this is the way it has to be.
Incidentally, in future, if the framework agreement is implemented, we will have ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
