Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal aimed to bring about simplification, to combine the two previous regulations into one: and it has done so.
The second aspect - adapting the regulations to new technical requirements and to the requirements of the WTO and of TRIPS - will also be a success.
The third objective - the continued validity of existing geographical indications, which can continue to be supplemented in future by additional designations - will also be achieved.
With some give and take on the part of the individual Member States, that, too, will provide clarity in future.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Schnellhardt, for the effort he has put into the many difficult negotiations.
In the dispute over 'Jägertee' or 'Jagertee', Germany has compromised and accepted the term 'Hüttentee' as the German designation.
All parties must be prepared to take a step closer to one other.
A great deal of tradition is involved, but mutual tolerance is required.
By way of explanation, the term 'Champagne' refers to the designation of origin - that is, the regional origin - and has less to do with the ingredients.
In Germany, we order a 'Klarer'.
By this we mean a spirit made from agricultural produce: fruit, grain or potatoes.
We have taken steps towards ensuring the clear nature of this product, and towards maintaining the economic base of the traditional, often small, distilleries.
I believe that this, too, will succeed.
The addition of sweeteners must be regulated, and must be clearly visible on the label.
For centuries, our distilleries have been producing top-quality spirits without adding flavourings or sugar.
Labelling constitutes consumer information and ensures a level competitive playing field.
This also goes for the raw material.
We made very heavy weather of the definition of 'vodka'.
The solution - labelling everything that is not produced from potatoes or grain - is a workable compromise and provides clear information, and I ask you to support this compromise.
