Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my particular thanks for the many suggestions that have been put forward, which are also summarised in the parliamentary resolution that has yet to be adopted.
We have focused on a number of important issues, namely those inherent to the Lisbon Strategy: growth, jobs - and also sustainability, which was added in Gothenburg.
The last speech, in particular - by Mrs Prets - highlighted the issue of who bears responsibility with regard to Lisbon - and my personal experience over recent years validates this point.
It has been clear that, in many fields, things are being coordinated that subsequently need to be implemented at national level.
Nevertheless - and this is related to the other point raised by several Members today - there are issues where all Member States agree that measures are not affordable at national level alone, and that help from the European level is needed.
This, in turn, is related to the issue of lawmaking: does it have to be carried out at European level or could it be done at national level?
One important related issue is energy - which, in turn, overlaps with the field of growth.
We shall be dealing with this at the Spring European Council, too, as the development of renewable energy is on the agenda.
This will represent the first important contribution to environmental protection, too - a contribution that will at the same time present new job opportunities.
After all, this field has proved to be a source of new jobs - and these, in turn, will offer opportunities for exporting products outside the EU.
It is not sufficient that Europe leads the way in energy conservation and combating climate change; it must convince others to take this course too.
We can only convince others if we set a good example ourselves, however.
I should like to emphasise another important point, even though it will not be such a central topic at the European Council.
There have already been repeated calls for energy solidarity, and there have also been calls for talks with Russia - and rightly so.
To achieve this security, however, negotiations with Russia are needed as well as a mandate to breathe life into the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Russia at long last, so that the very aspects that also play a role in the issue of energy security can be included in the negotiations.
I should like to mention another aspect in this connection, namely the reason for the importance of this dialogue with Russia.
If we all bear in mind today how the pipelines in Russia are laid, where they are laid and the fact that - partly as a result of global warming - the condition of these pipelines may soon deteriorate, we see that it is important to enter into close contact with Russia in this particular regard - rather than just with the other producing countries and/or the relevant transit countries.
I should like to mention a field already referred to by several Members, including Mr Goebbels - namely the social dimension, the European social model.
The occasional criticism has been made that this dimension is not really central.
I should just like to remind the House that, just a few days ago, this Presidency held an impetus conference in Nuremberg under the leadership of Franz Müntefering, German Federal Minister for Labour and Social Affairs and President of the Employment, Social Policy, Health and Consumer Affairs Council, on issues such as the following.
How can we respond to the challenge of globalisation?
What can the EU do?
What should be retained and what changed in response to these challenges?
The Council President has also made it his objective to continue this during Germany's Presidency of the G8.
Nevertheless, we must consider how to allay the fears that this changing world holds for many citizens.
It is very important to bear in mind that people need security in change.
Returning to the subject of Lisbon, many associate this word with the beautiful capital of Portugal, whilst for others it holds no associations.
The task of remedying this falls not only to the Commission.
It is our duty to repeatedly emphasise the objectives of the Lisbon Strategy - growth, jobs and sustainability - and coordinate these with new issues and challenges, such as research, education and training.
In so doing, however, we must show at national level that this impetus and this coordination have come from Europe.
I should like to make one last comment on the subject of the Constitutional Treaty, even though it is not on the agenda of the Spring European Council.
It is unsatisfactory to make comments such as 'Why not just dispense with the Constitutional Treaty: the people do not want it?'
Statements such as this are incorrect, as some Member States, such as Spain and Luxembourg, have accepted this Constitutional Treaty - be it in their parliaments or by means of referendums.
It is true that two other Member States have voted against it, but, at the same time - as the German Chancellor said in her speech on the German Presidency here a few weeks ago - many people who reject this Constitutional Treaty also want the European Union to have more powers and responsibilities, for example in the field of energy.
This is exactly what the Constitutional Treaty envisages.
Individuals have to decide what it is they want, therefore: they cannot always just select the parts they like.
Those calling for parliamentary rights, for example the early-warning mechanism via better lawmaking, have to be able to decide on the level - national or European - at which they believe regulations are needed and should be adopted.
