author. - Mr President, what good are bilateral talks if they do not produce any tangible results?
Do they mask an inability to act, or do they at least contribute to confidence-building?
Parliament is rightly calling for the resumption of the dialogue, last conducted one year ago, between the representatives of the Dalai Lama and the Chinese Government.
Items on the agenda should include the elimination of reprisals, an end to human rights violations, and tangible measures to guarantee the Tibetan population cultural and religious autonomy.
The dialogue was launched in September 2002.
China has been blocking it for 12 months.
The grounds are always the same: preconditions are to be met; the Dalai Lama is not interested in improving relations, and is striving for Tibetan independence.
This is simply not true.
For years, His Holiness has been interested not in an independent state, but in Tibetan autonomy.
There are good examples of this kind of legal status even in the EU.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats stands by four positions, as do almost all other groupings in this House.
Firstly, an EU Special Representative for Tibet must be appointed.
It is insufficient that this issue be relegated to the fringe of EU-China dialogue.
Secondly, we want the Commission to make Tibet an integral part of the EU-China Partnership and Cooperation Framework Agreement.
We ask that the Commission inform Parliament of progress and retrogression.
Thirdly, the Council should include in its annual report information on current developments with regard to the China-Tibet dialogue.
Fourthly, the EU should draw up joint strategies with its partners in the world, particularly the USA.
It is my fervent hope that the representatives of the People's Republic of China understand the desire of the international community - as just expressed by my fellow Members - for China to resume this dialogue with the Tibetans at long last.
After all, China's representatives are most preoccupied with good press in the run-up to the 2008 Olympic Games in Beijing.
