draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - Mr President, the Committee on Transport and Tourism is of the opinion, for its area of responsibility, that with this proposal for a directive the Commission is exceeding its powers, because it is misunderstanding its instructions.
It speaks of stabilising the internal market, but the directive is supposed to be principally about protection against acts of terrorism.
Moreover, the Commission proposal contravenes the principle of subsidiarity, because it seeks not only to complement Member States' existing measures, but to replace some of them.
Finally, the proposal does not address the real task, but delegates it to a comitology committee.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism therefore rejected the Commission proposal, although we know that we do of course need European cooperation.
The question is simply how.
My main concern is to ensure that the Member States are not obliged to notify their critical European infrastructures to the Commission so that it can then make a complete list of sensitive EU infrastructures, attach security plans to it and then store everything in some office in Brussels.
That would be against national security interests.
Such a list would be an interesting source of information for terrorists.
All that should be done by the Commission is to define and list in general terms the most important sectors at risk.
It should be left to the Member States to identify those sectors, because it is they who are primarily responsible for the protection of critical infrastructures and they carry the ultimate responsibility for measures to protect critical infrastructures within their national borders.
In the interests of national security, that must continue to be the case.
Only a devolved management of sensitive infrastructures can reduce the level of risk.
I believe the narrower definition of critical European infrastructures, according to which at least three Member States, or two others than the one in which the critical infrastructure is located, must be affected, is the right one.
We must ensure that the directive covers only European infrastructures and no national ones.
I also consider that bilateral cooperation between Member States is more sensible in this area on security grounds.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Jeanine Hennis-Plasschaert, most sincerely and assure her of my support.
