on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is not being concluded as speedily as some might wish.
I can see the risk referred to by the Commissioner, but I also see this as an opportunity.
We should use this opportunity, rather than always looking at the negative side.
What do we want?
We want to send a message to Serbia through a Stabilisation and Association Agreement and by reducing visa restrictions - provided Serbia cooperates with the ICTY - to say that the country is welcome in the European Union, and we want to see an end to this constant self-flagellation and inferiority complex.
Secondly, we want a new status for Kosovo on the basis of Mr Ahtisaari's proposal for a resolution.
I am not saying that we would not be willing to accept some changes, but that requires talks, and the Serbian and Kosovan representatives must be willing to talk to one another.
I do not think that they will agree, but they should at least clear up those points that can be cleared up.
Both sides need to act responsibly, because they are still going to have to live alongside one another in the region in future, particularly if they want to be part of Europe.
There is no room for a threat to stability.
So I fully agree with the Commissioner that we cannot defer matters just for the sake of it; instead we need to make good use of our time.
I am delighted that the Prime Minister of Kosovo has said that he does not want to take any unilateral measures in the coming months.
That is more than some speakers in this House.
I am also very pleased to hear, if it is true, that the USA will not support any such steps, since the European Union would be the primary victim.
We call on Russia to abandon its veto and its blocking of the resolution.
Russia cannot gain anything for Abkhazia and Transnistria that it has not already obtained through military force.
What we are trying to do now is ensure a peaceful transition.
It is also in Kosovo and Albania's interest to tie Serbia into the new status as tightly as possible and to send Serbia a clear signal from Europe.
Albania and the Albanians in Kosovo could not ask for more.
