President-in-Office of the Council.
I would point out that there is no legal basis for the Council to formally approve or reject projects such as those mentioned in the honourable Member's question.
In other words, such projects can go ahead without the need for the Council's prior approval.
As the honourable Member is no doubt aware, Decision 1364/2006/EC of the European Parliament and of the Council laying down guidelines for trans-European energy networks and repealing Decision 96/391/EC and Decision 1229/2003/EC makes reference in several places to a gas pipeline between Russia and Germany running across the Baltic Sea via the offshore route.
I also assume the honourable Member is aware that, in accordance with Annex I to this Decision, a North European gas pipeline is categorised under 'projects of European interest': the category of projects given the highest priority.
With regard to the special provisions governing projects of this standing, the Council would draw attention to the operative part of the aforementioned Decision, which was adopted by the European Parliament and the Council by the codecision procedure.
I should like to refer Mr Lundgren, in particular, once more to Article 13 of the Decision, which reads as follows: 'This Decision shall be without prejudice to the results of the environmental impact assessment of projects, plans or programmes which define the future framework for such projects.
The results of the environmental impact assessments, where such an assessment is requested in accordance with relevant Community legislation, shall be taken into consideration before a decision on the carrying out of the projects is actually taken in accordance with the relevant Community legislation.'
Regarding the second part of the question, in accordance with the Treaty, it is up to the Commission to ensure the correct application of Community legislation and, in the case of infringements, to take such measures as it deems appropriate.
Naturally, this principle also applies to the Community legislation in force for environmental impact assessments.
