Mr President, Mr Vice-President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is indeed a very calm discussion this morning.
I welcome this greatly, but it is a very difficult subject.
We have three problems in all with consumer products, and with toys in particular, and these have already been amply discussed.
Firstly, market surveillance - and you, Commissioner Verheugen, have indeed addressed the fact that an iron was wrongly given two different safety labels on Europe's internal market.
This is bad enough, but the worst thing is that a Member State found this iron and did not inform the other Member States about it until a year later.
There is a need for change here, particularly in the Council.
Secondly, importer liability has already been addressed.
I can only support what has been said here.
However, I believe that a crucial problem - and this is my third point - lies in the fact that we have different approaches at European level.
On the one hand, we have the General Product Safety Directive (GPSD), which applies to all consumer goods, and on the other hand the New Approach.
This varied approach to consumer products is still not completely watertight at all points.
Hence my belief that we need the CE marking that applies in the New Approach as a basis for safety and for products entering the internal market, and that we need additional certification for all those manufacturers on the European internal market and beyond, which must be voluntary, and which offers European manufacturers the opportunity to raise standards as a whole in global competition - because Europe's internal market is the world's largest internal consumer market, bigger than the USA and bigger than all the others in this product sector.
This solution - a voluntary one with a basic principle legally governed by regulation at European level - offers the consumer the security of knowing what has been assigned to a product by a certificate.
We therefore have an internal market-friendly solution as well as a solution for dealing with globalisation.
One further point on toys.
There are many different types of toys.
It is totally clear to me that a teddy, which children put in their mouths, naturally has to meet different conditions than a computer keyboard and we should also factor this differentiation into the implementation of the legislation.
Hence my appeal to our Members: let us therefore think about taking CE marking as a basis for all goods coming onto the internal market and additional, voluntary certification for consumer goods.
