on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats congratulates Vice-President Barrot, his negotiating team and Mr Calleja Crespo most sincerely on the successful conclusion of this, the first part of the important EU-US air-transport agreement.
Let us also join together to thank the US negotiating team and Mr Byerly, however, as it was no easy task for him, either, to bring these negotiations to a successful conclusion.
There is no doubt that this agreement brings about a large transatlantic air-transport market at long last, to the benefit of air carriers and passengers.
From now on, European air carriers will be able to access the US market from all parts of the EU without national restrictions.
At the same time, we are implementing the 2002 judgment of the European Court of Justice.
The restrictions at London Heathrow Airport contravening Community law will also have to be lifted.
I am sure that the opening of the skies over the Atlantic will also give rise to attractive offers for air passengers.
The reason this agreement is balanced is that the Commission has succeeded in opening up access to US markets for European air carriers a little for the first time.
We could have seen more than market opening, but all the same.
New regulations on ownership and control rights, licensing and branding have been put in place.
I believe that these benefits are such as to justify our calling this a balanced agreement.
It is even more important, from my point of view, that we have set up a joint committee with the involvement of the business community, as this will be able to prevent, for example, the US or Europe taking unilateral security measures to the detriment of air carriers and passengers in future.
The PPE-DE Group urges the German Presidency to lose no time in ensuring support for this compromise in the Council - something that would also have great symbolic value.
I am very much obliged to our friend Mr El Khadraoui for his excellent resolution, which - I believe - will be adopted tomorrow by a large majority in the spirit of our discussions.
