on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we on the INTA Committee requested this debate because we are very concerned as we see that we are concluding more and more agreements of different kinds which affect all our work in the external economic sector and which also, of course, always have a foreign policy component.
We have bilateral free trade agreements, regional free trade agreements, partnership agreements and strategic agreements and we worry about how these can be brought together so that we have a consistent European approach for responding to the challenges of globalisation in the foreign policy and external economic sector.
Commissioner, you have rightly said that Brazil is an important country for us.
I am also very grateful that the President-in-Office of the Council is present, and we all, of course, share this opinion.
It is not just an important country; it is in many respects also a fantastic country.
The question simply is: how can we sensibly combine this strategic agreement with, at the same time, the idea of concluding a regional agreement with Mercosur, which has got itself into very troubled waters?
It is simply not true that we get along wonderfully in the negotiations.
It is very complicated.
Alongside this we want to conclude a multilateral agreement in the Doha Round.
It does not seem at all likely that we will be able to bring this agreement off as a crowning achievement, if we can bring it off at all.
So how do you want to bring all this together at the same time?
That is our question.
Of course, it is also a strategic agreement.
What is the nature of a strategic agreement?
It contains a great deal if you look at it.
There are very many political declarations of intent on Brazil and all of them very sensible.
Again, in my Group we are very happy that they are also included, but how do you want to link this to the other members, e.g. in Latin America, with whom we have free trade agreements?
Or how do you want to feed this back again so that our trade policy is imbued with a uniform European policy in such a way that all partners can understand this too?
