Mr President, Commissioner, every day more would-be illegal immigrants try to reach the European continent, and every day we experience intolerable situations and intolerable tragedies in southern Europe.
The European Union has created Frontex.
The European Parliament was prepared to double the annual budget for border surveillance.
Frontex now has a budget of 35 million euros.
Nevertheless, more illegal immigrants are entering the European Union daily.
The plain and simple fact is that border surveillance is not working.
The assistance to Member States and the coordination that Frontex is supposed to provide are not working.
If the coordination is defective, the work of Frontex invites criticism.
If, however, the Member States do not deliver the manpower and equipment they promised to provide, it is they who must be held to account and made to honour their obligations.
In no circumstances should we put the entire onus on the countries of southern Europe.
In this context I have a question to put to our Commissioner.
In a press release on 24 May, the Commission reported that the number of aircraft, ships and other items of equipment made available to date had been satisfactory.
Today, in another report from the Commission, we learn that it is criticising the Member States, which have delivered only a tenth of the promised aircraft, ships and helicopters.
So which version is correct?
Can you please put the record straight, Commissioner?
If the Frontex agency has been set up by us and is so well funded, it must perform.
If that is not the case, let us please abolish it and explore other avenues.
One way or the other - and I appeal here to everyone in a position of responsibility - the European Union, as well as monitoring our own borders, must provide assistance for the establishment of a functioning system of border surveillance in the transit countries - that is a form of local assistance which will help us in turn - as well as granting stabilisation aid and conducting local information campaigns in the countries of origin.
It is certainly high time we took action instead of continuing to discuss an intolerable situation.
