on behalf of the ITS Group. - Mr President, perhaps I might be permitted, with the European Council in the offing, to make a number of basic observations in relation to liberalisation and energy policy.
It seems to me that, in order to fulfil the Maastricht criteria and meet the demands of the Lisbon Strategy, the state is flogging off the family silver, while the public have to fasten their belts ever more tightly, with those in the public service being pensioned off early all too often and left unemployed and trembling with fear lest they lose their social security.
Promises have been made to the effect that everything will be better value, more efficient and more flexible, but this sort of liberalisation is no way to keep them.
In public infrastructures, the name of the game is now long depreciation periods and low revenues.
Private investors, though, are mainly interested in ready money, and we are all familiar with the consequences, with, for example, the poor punctuality of the railways and the abandoned stretches of track obliging us to go back to the car.
Thanks to the privatisation of the post, we can now invest in new letter boxes and make lengthy pilgrimages to post offices, where we find a world of indecent working practices that belong in the Stone Age.
Speculations in shares are making electricity more expensive, and we may well end up at some point being unable to afford our own water when higher prices are offered for it abroad, but what is even more dangerous is the prospect of foreign workers and asylum seekers being seen as an answer to the low birth rate and as a means of securing our social provision, to do which is to light the fuse on a powder keg, and the first explosions can already be heard getting closer and closer.
We must, then, have a rethink; we must pursue a competent policy on family life and births, invest more in education and use a reasonable amount of protectionism to promote our business sectors and our own agricultural production, in order to protect our people from the business relocations that the EU encourages.
Nor, I think, can it be intended that nuclear-generated electricity be used to produce environmentally sound energy, or that biofuel should lead to food shortages in the way in which it has done in Mexico.
What is needed in such situations is the active promotion of research into new technologies or the use of other types of energy production that really are more environmentally friendly.
