Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would of course like to thank the rapporteur as well.
The discussions in advance of this report were always very fruitful and interesting.
Much of what came out of these discussions has been incorporated into the report, although not everything, which is unfortunate, at least from my point of view, as the report emphasises in some places that the completion of the internal market for services in the European Union is trailing far behind the internal market for goods.
From my perspective, there is actually no real scientific or indeed objective evidence of that, given that we have not only the Services Directive but also the Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications as well as other Directives in the services sector.
Secondly, the services sector in the internal market is far more heterogeneous than goods.
It ranges from subordinate services to medical or legal services and finally large-scale services such as major banking and insurance services.
Lumping all these services together, which is what repeatedly happens in this House, is risky, in my view.
I believe - and a number of previous speakers have already pointed this out - that a differentiated approach would certainly be useful.
The third point which has been raised repeatedly, namely collective redress, is unlikely to become more relevant simply by being the frequent subject of discussion.
I think what we can say, clearly and unequivocally, is that Parliament expects the Commission to undertake a study to review which of the diverse models that already exist in Europe would genuinely be best for the European Union.
I think that is all that needs to be said on this subject.
The liability systems in the individual Member States - and this is my fourth point - are still highly diverse.
That is why we need a unified system of obligations for service providers.
Clarifying the legal system governing these obligations will generate more competition and create more choice for the consumer, but I believe - as some of the previous speakers have said - that it would be wrong to ask the Commission to produce a horizontal instrument at this stage.
In any case, I am very sceptical about the creation of this type of liability law at European level.
