rapporteur. - Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, the proposals we have drawn up in this report take us one step closer to a common European asylum system.
The report, which - I assume - will receive broad support from Parliament, represents a clear declaration of commitment by the European Parliament to a functioning European asylum system that aims to take speedy, fair, sure decisions in the interests of those concerned.
It is based on closer cooperation between authorities, cooperation that should have the objectives of building and increasing trust between Member States, of speeding up decisions and thereby providing help more quickly than before to those with a genuine claim to asylum, and of enabling us to combat abuses of the system accordingly.
I have been able to highlight 10 core demands, and I should like to express my particular thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for their support and to the Commission for its excellent proposal, on which this discussion has been based.
These 10 core demands are as follows.
The first concerns the establishment of uniform procedures so that speedy, sure decisions can be taken.
The second demand is for the introduction of a list of safe countries of origin, to enable a very clear decision, depending on the individual case, as to whether or not a claim is justified.
The third is the drawing-up of a joint database on the situation in countries of origin, so that all the competent civil servants in the various Member States have the same information at their disposal regarding this situation and thus are all in a position to take sure decisions on the basis of the same information source.
The fourth is that we need highly skilled civil servants to take the decisions.
This is the rationale behind the proposal for the development of a European curriculum, so that qualifications are acquired according to the same standards in all Member States.
The fifth demand is that we help Member States who are under particular pressure from migration flows by temporarily - for as long as necessary - providing teams of experts comprising members from the various Member States, to enable the speedy completion of asylum procedures.
The sixth point is that we need to improve measures for the repatriation of persons, more particularly those who have not been granted refugee status or whose refugee status has been revoked.
The seventh point concerns prevention, and I have already mentioned it many times.
We have to launch intensive information campaigns to inform potential migrants in countries of origin and transit of the risks inherent in illegal immigration and the consequences of denial of refugee status, and also inform them of legal means of entry into the European Union.
The eighth point concerns the European Support Office.
The committee disagreed with the Commission proposal on this.
I think it would be better to provide the Commission with more staff and funds than to set up yet another agency, as I believe this would be more efficient and economical.
The ninth point is that we must demand that Member States do indeed transpose the directives or regulations adopted at European level.
In this regard, a 'table of equivalences' has been proposed - namely one in which Member States set out the measures with which they believe they have transposed the corresponding Community requirements.
The tenth and final point concerns the sharing out of the burden that is afforded by, for example, teams of experts providing support to enable faster completion of procedures in exceptional situations.
Indirectly, the fact of having uniform procedures would also share out the burden to a certain degree, as it would avoid people heading in larger numbers for countries where procedures are lax or based on incorrect information.
This should not be the case.
We have endeavoured to present a catalogue of points highlighting in specific terms how we believe that, in future, help can be provided quickly to genuine refugees to whom refugee status has been granted and, equally, it can be made clear to others that they cannot attain this status.
I should like to express my thanks for the cooperation and support I have received.
