Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, none of us questions Israel's right to exist.
We are aware of our political responsibility.
At the same time, I would like to remind the House of the message from a peace conference held in Palestine in the last few days.
Women, who are, after all, part of civil society, Palestinian and Israeli women, delivered a clear message to us.
You speak, they said, of the coexistence of two states.
That is good, but please take note that our existence is threatened in Palestine and in Gaza.
I believe that the crux of the matter at this time is the existence issue.
For this reason I am glad that Javier Solana said we had to consider whether we should not review the Lebanon experience as quickly as possible and possibly become involved in Gaza.
We must act before the situation slides completely out of control, because there will not be many more opportunities.
What you described as courage, Dr Solana, namely the hope we must have if we are to remain committed and explain our commitment to the people on the ground too, that hope has faded to a shadow in the region itself.
I wish to thank Mr Poettering on behalf of my group for having made that journey.
You said that the situation in Gaza is intolerable.
It is our duty to become more heavily committed than ever before to the right of people there to live in peace, and of course that also means criticising Hamas for its duplicity.
The statement made by Hamas to mark the 40th anniversary of the Six-Day War is unacceptable in our view.
At the same time, however, we must cooperate actively with the Government of National Unity.
We shall not get a second chance.
I second the criticism voiced by Mrs De Keyser just a few moments ago.
We in the European Union have indeed made mistakes in that region.
We have bitterly disappointed people's hopes and have failed to harness their willingness to look to the future.
I hope that the Middle East Quartet is now roused from slumber.
I hope it will go into action, and I hope there will be trips to the region.
It may be a last chance before we can no longer speak realistically of any hope of peace.
