President-in-Office of the Council. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me express my warm thanks to you, Mr Langen, for the two parts of your contribution as rapporteur.
You recommended the entry of Malta and Cyprus into the eurozone in spite of the reservations about the time factor which you expressed in the second part of your remarks.
It is important that we should be able to achieve this within the various time limits, as Commissioner Almunia said before.
Both countries need a certain amount of time to prepare for this step so as to ensure that the people of Malta and Cyprus do not ultimately bear the brunt of an excessively long drawn-out preparation process.
I would like to re-emphasise that the European Council indicated to the President of the European Parliament that a difficult situation obtained and that time might be too short.
Let me also deal with the question of what is feasible, of what can still be done before particular official deadlines.
The timetables have been laid down.
We cannot deviate from them, because provisions of the EC Treaty are involved.
The other question is to what extent, in the consultations between Ecofin and your committee, you are receiving the information you need in order to monitor the situation continuously and thus to be prepared.
Another question concerns the extent to which you are being given advance copies of reports from the countries that have applied for membership.
May I also say this in response to various questions that have been asked in the course of the debate here: on the one hand, many things are prescribed, but in areas where changes may be possible - and this was explained by Mrs Merkel in her letter to Mr Poettering and was also referred to by the President of the Commission - if we are to recognise these possibilities we must remain engaged in the discussion through appropriate proposals from the Commission.
In all other respects, it is a matter of awaiting developments.
I therefore hope you will appreciate that I cannot make any promises today on behalf of the Council in respect of this item.
