Mr President, Mr Gloser, Commissioner, the fact that you have heard the same refrain right across the political groups should, I believe, give you pause for thought.
The message is that we do of course need a transatlantic partnership and that we are allies in the fight against terrorism.
Not only the refrain, but even the verse was the same across the board, namely that credibility, confidence and transparency are necessary where these issues are concerned.
Let us begin with credibility.
I still remember very well how, in his last speech in this House, the Commissioner particularly praised the data protection aspects of the agreement.
I do not believe that such praise is compatible with the rights that we should have from the point of view of data protection law.
Where the transfer of airline passenger data is concerned, there is no duty to provide information, and the individuals concerned have no right to correct the data.
What, moreover, has happened to credibility when you call the conversations you are conducting with the United States 'negotiations'?
You are standing with your back to the wall and with a pistol pointing at your chest.
The United States is threatening no longer to allow aircraft to land, and none of the European Union's institutions has the backbone to say that, in all good faith, we shall not allow ourselves to be treated like that.
Credibility is undermined by our hearing again and again that Parliament is to be involved.
If you are serious about that, then include us around the table and, in so doing, show us that you mean what you say.
Turning now to the subject of transparency, which European citizens are aware that, when they board an aircraft, 34 items of data, including information about what they have to eat and where they sit, are transferred?
None do.
I have discussed this very question with citizens in a broadcast.
No one knows that this is what happens when he or she boards an aircraft.
We are on your side, so involve us instead of just fobbing us off.
