Mr President, Commissioner, illegal immigration has come to assume epidemic proportions.
Conservative estimates put the number of illegal immigrants in Europe at about 15 million.
You need only compare the figures for 2005 and 2006 to see that their number has multiplied sixfold.
Smuggling people into the EU has become big business and is part of the phenomenon of organised crime.
In this situation, many Member States are quite simply overburdened.
They cannot be left in the lurch; they need help.
That is where the EU scheme comes in.
I welcome the fact that Frontex has been created, all the more so in view of the imminent establishment of a functioning instrument, in the form of the Rapid Border Intervention Teams, that can provide assistance within a particular area for a limited period of time at the request of Member States, and I also welcome the clear indication that, as Mr Díaz de Mera García Consuegra emphasised, responsibility for guarding borders will remain in the hands of the Member States.
The RABITs will render short-term assistance - we must be clear about that.
For the medium and long term we need additional measures.
I expect a cooperation agreement to materialise between Frontex and Europol so that the crime of human smuggling can be more effectively combated; I also expect illegal residence to have consequences - we need to think about repatriation aid in this context - and I expect an immediate end to mass legalisation, for that invariably creates a knock-on effect and shifts the problems to other countries.
Moreover, we also need education campaigns as a preventive measure, so that potential migrants can learn how legal immigration works, what the consequences of illegal immigration are and what risks it entails.
We also need stabilisation and aid programmes in migrants' countries of origin.
With these RABITs, we in the European Union are certainly demonstrating that we are on the way towards a security union and that we are reflecting at the same time on how we can solve migration problems, and especially the problem of illegal immigration, in the medium and long term.
Let me close by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent coordination.
