I can assure you that my answer to you was not diplomatic in character, but had to do with various things that have to be considered not by the Presidency alone, but by the Member States together, since various interests - the interests of what are now 27 Member States - are affected.
I also made it clear that there are various users or consumers, together with importers, manufacturers and competitors, to consider.
I do believe that it is right in principle that we have named October 2007 as the target date for reviewing whether the present protection, as it is laid down, is still appropriate in terms of time or whether there has to be a response on the part of the European Union.
I am not familiar with the case to which you refer, but I do believe that it is the Commission's practice to consider the various areas before possibly suspending the protection mechanism.
The question that arises for me and for the Presidency, not least from the discussions we have had is that, if all these things had not had an influence on our process of deliberation, it is to be expected that there would be anger directed at the European Union from certain Member States, because it would have been seen as not keeping the different interests in balance.
Subject: Agreement on facilitation of the visa system for nationals of the Russian Federation
The European Union recently facilitated the visa system for nationals of the Russian Federation on the basis of the agreement reached at the St. Petersburg summit in 2003.
This means that residents of Abkhazia and South Ossetia, two secessionist regions of Georgia not recognised by the international community, will be able to benefit from this new visa system since they all hold Russian passports.
No such agreement exists with Georgia, making Russian nationality appear more advantageous for people in those two separatist regions and further distancing them from the other parts of Georgia.
Given that the European Union is pursuing a peaceful settlement to the conflicts in Abkhazia and South Ossetia and working for their rapprochement with Georgia, what will it do to remedy this situation?
Are there any plans to enter into negotiations in the near future on a similar agreement with Georgia in order to grant the peoples of the Southern Caucasus the same rights?
