on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, we, too, wish to thank Mr Martin for the good work he has done, and I would like to begin with a positive political development.
It is good that the 'General Affairs and Foreign Relations' Council, which is responsible, acknowledged on 15 May that reductions in tariffs made enormous inroads into the state revenues of many developing countries, and it is good that it stressed the need for, and necessity of, compensation payments to address this.
Had it not done so, we would run the risk of our trade policy possibly bringing about the rapid collapse of any development policy whatever in the countries affected.
It is absolutely vital that we do something about this, but for that we need additional funding that cannot be set against the development aid funds if we want to achieve the millennium development goals.
What has to be avoided is the occurrence of a sort of 'displacement effect', with a move away from the combating of poverty and from the millennium goals campaign towards promoting an orientation towards exports.
That would be a misconceived tendency, one that could be triggered by the injection of these two billion in the absence of deliberate political action on our part to counteract it.
In terms of development strategy, the stabilisation of local markets takes, as a rule, precedence over the preparation of the most vulnerable and poorest countries to become exporters; what matters is that our policy be consistent.
'Aid for Trade' must not be allowed to relativise the fight against poverty, and so it follows that additional funds are needed in order to finance it.
It is in this regard that I would be really interested to know from which Budget lines the money is being taken.
Moreover, 'aid for trade' must not be allowed to play a part in undermining the stabilisation of local markets, which must be at the heart of any development strategy.
That is the Commission's task in putting into practice the wide-ranging concept of 'aid for trade' and I appeal to you, Commissioner, to pay particular attention to these aspects.
