President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr Posselt, my answer to your question is as follows.
Martti Ahtisaari's endeavours have the unqualified support of the EU.
The strategic objective in this regard is still to achieve a lasting settlement for Kosovo quickly without endangering democracy in Serbia or the stability of the region as a whole.
The EU is currently working on plans for three projects.
These are the international civilian mission (ICM), a rule of law mission and programmes for continuing the promotion of economic development and furthering Kosovo's prospects of EU membership.
In all three cases, the plans are being made in close cooperation with the local authorities and other international actors, particularly the United States and NATO.
The team making preparations for the international civilian mission started work in Priština on 9 October 2006.
It has the twofold task of planning the structure and staffing of the mission and determining its infrastructure requirements and, together with UNMIK and the competent Kosovo authorities, preparing the possible transfer of competences to both the ICM and the local authorities.
Since May 2006, a Planning Team has been in Kosovo to prepare a possible rule of law mission within the framework of the European Security and Defence Policy (ESDP).
The planned mission is intended to have a general role in teaching, observing and advising in matters of the rule of law.
In addition, it would have executive powers in some fields relating to the police, the judiciary and customs.
The precise scope of its mandate will have to be established after the resolution of the status issue.
The mission, which would be introduced following the conclusion of the status process and a transitional period where it worked jointly with UNMIK, would be the largest civilian ESDP mission to date.
A successful conclusion of the status process, which is being led by Mr Ahtisaari, is essential not only to give the people of Kosovo clear prospects, but also for stability in the whole region.
The conclusion of this process represents the end point in the dissolution of the former Yugoslavia.
