Madam President, I, too, am glad to see you in the Chair today, and warmly congratulate you on your election.
So far, this debate has been conducted in the absence of the Commission and the Council, and that was only right and proper.
Its subject is the practical implementation of gender mainstreaming in the committees, and, more specifically, the first interim report following on from the report I produced and which was adopted in 2003.
This report highlights very well how we should implement gender mainstreaming in this House, and, while it was right that we should concern ourselves with this, I do now rather fear that we have missed an opportunity, since we are all talking about everything under the sun except what we can do in this Parliament of ours.
What has become of its Paragraph 1, with its action plan for a policy of gender mainstreaming, that is to say, equality in every evaluation and analysis and the new development of concepts for the equality of women and men in Parliament?
There is still a very great deal left to be done, and no actual plan of action.
And what of the second, with its priorities for equality issues and a high-level working party?
This working party has done its job very well, and the right procedure was followed, in that reports were produced by all the committees.
As we have heard from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, some of the Vice-Chairmen of committees have done very good work, but what they did was sometimes exposed to ridicule.
What has become of our demand for women in decision-making positions within Parliament?
No definite action has been taken to make that happen.
The groups and the national delegations treated this demand with varying degrees of seriousness, but no proper strategy has been forthcoming.
What, then, of the analysis of the Budget procedure?
Here, too, no definite action has been taken, although the policy of gender budgeting was meant to have been given tangible form.
What progress has been made towards achieving an effective press and information strategy - something else that we called for in 2003 - which is another area where there are still considerable deficits?
Now that we are to conduct a proper analysis and evaluation, I very much hope that we will be helped, in the analysis of the committees, by the European Institute for Gender Equality, which we have recently voted to set up.
It is to be regretted, though, that the report has far from enough to say about the state of affairs in the groups, the delegations and the substance of policies, and so I should like to see us taking a more ambitious approach and managing, by 2009 - when elections are due - to achieve real agreements that make gender mainstreaming possible and put women in positions of leadership.
Grateful though I am for the work that has been done, we must still make very considerable effort to get anywhere near achieving the goal that we set ourselves in the 2003 report.
