draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank Mrs Thomsen for her balanced report.
I would like briefly to outline the key points of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development's opinion.
Our committee expressly welcomes the proposed Roadmap for Renewable Energy as an important contribution to the sustainable development of Europe.
We need to make more efforts to develop renewable energy sources.
On the one hand, Europe has to safeguard its energy supply and reduce its dependence on foreign imports.
On the other hand, we must observe our commitments to climate protection.
In the energy mix of the future, bio-energy will also have a key role to play in boosting rural employment and the rural economy in Europe.
At the same time, the promotion of bio-energy must not lead to distortions of competition.
The set-aside rules no longer fit into the system and should be abolished, partly also because of the shortage of agricultural land as a result of the competition between food production and renewable raw materials.
In its opinion on Mr Lang's report on an EU biomass and biofuels strategy, our committee already attached special importance to the introduction of an EU certification system.
On the one hand, we must avoid putting additional administrative burdens on our own producers by applying existing regulations, such as the one on cross compliance.
On the other hand, biofuels imported from third countries should also be certified according to strict environmental criteria, in order to ensure a positive environmental balance.
When we promote biofuels we must not allocate the available resources primarily to research into second-generation biofuels.
There is still a considerable need for research into first-generation biofuels.
Adequate attention should also be paid in research and development programmes to decentralised means of producing biofuels because of their many advantages.
