on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, if I told my mother that we debated maritime safety at 11 p.m. after football, she would probably say: you Brussels people are crazy.
At this stage I would not disagree with her.
Nevertheless, it is good that the Commission has tabled this proposal because it is necessary.
In the Committee on Improving Safety at Sea (MARE), we have called for the European Union to become active in the fields of flag State requirements and liability and compensation.
At this point I should like to express particular thanks to the two rapporteurs, my colleagues, Mrs Vincenzi and Mr Savary, because both reports are tricky in terms of content and politically very controversial.
In addition, so far we have not heard any cheering, euphoria or shouts of 'bravo' from the Council.
That is why at this stage we should say once more to the Council - because there have clearly been misunderstandings - that the fact that we are debating these two reports today does not mean that we are giving up on the Erika III package with its seven dossiers, but rather that we are underlining the particular political importance of these two reports.
The Council, which is trying at Mr Savary's request to interpret the concept of 'gross negligence', would therefore be very grossly negligent itself if it were labouring under this misconception.
I agree with Mr Jarzembowski: the Council's attitude towards the Vincenzi report is very difficult to understand.
What is actually the problem with incorporating valid IMO rules into European law?
Similarly, in the Savary report what is the problem with including chemical pollution in a civil liability regime alongside oil pollution?
That cannot actually be the problem.
In any case common sense would support these proposals.
The message of these two reports is: the Member States should bear more responsibility for ships flying their flag and both the Member States and shipowners should bear more responsibility if something happens.
These matters are overdue: think of the Erika and the Prestige.
Thank you, Commission, for the proposals.
Thank you to the rapporteurs.
Now the Council is asked to conduct itself properly and not be grossly negligent.
