Mr President, Commissioner, honourable Members, as the European Security Strategy affirms, 'the European Union and the United States of American can, through their common action, be a powerful force for the good of the world'.
Strengthening common trans-Atlantic action and building on our relationship with the USA are core elements in our presidency, in the political and economic spheres as much as in energy security and in addressing climate change, and it is intended that this message should go out from the EU/USA summit to be held in Washington on 30 April.
It is good that we have the chance to discuss things here today, just a few days before the Summit, so that this important signal may go out from the European Parliament.
Your House is playing an active role in trans-Atlantic relations, not least - to mention just one example - through the Transatlantic Legislators Dialogue, which is a significant part of the network of bilateral links establishing connections across the Atlantic at many different levels, and I should like expressly to thank you, Mr President, and the whole European Parliament for this commitment.
The USA is still the partner with which the EU's relations are closest and most diverse.
The trans-Atlantic relationship rests on a solid foundation derived from common historical experiences, very similar interests and, above all, shared values - freedom, democracy, the rule of law and tolerance.
Those experiences have shown that this foundation, which is sometimes severely tested, can withstand a great deal, and so it is all the more important that trans-Atlantic relations be continually renewed and made fit for the future.
I regard practical common action as the most sustainable way of underpinning the significance of transatlantic cooperation, both for now and for the future.
The transatlantic partnership is not restricted to bilateral issues, but has a strong global dimension.
In scarcely any crisis - from Afghanistan to Iran to Kosovo - do the transatlantic partners not come together to try to find possible solutions.
Whilst we are largely agreed in our analysis of the key dangers and challenges and on our fundamental policy objectives, the EU and US have had, and still have, differing stances on the priorities, as well as on instruments and methods.
That will continue to be the case, and it would be unrealistic to expect us always to be of one mind.
Rather than ignoring difficult issues, we pursue an intensive dialogue with the US on the subject of them, and, in so doing, we will not deviate from our position that measures taken to combat terrorism must comply fully with our international obligations, including human rights law, refugee law and international humanitarian law, and be taken on the basis of our shared values.
Your House has repeatedly taken a very clear position on this, and we will continue to address these questions in talks with our American partners.
What is crucial is that we do not allow ourselves to be divided by these issues, for a close partnership between the EU and the US is indispensable for both sides, and this message, too, is to go out from the forthcoming EU/USA summit on 30 April in Washington.
On that occasion the focus will be not only on political and security-related issues, but also on the strengthening of transatlantic commerce and on closer cooperation on climate protection and energy policy.
In the margins of the summit, we will be signing the EU-US air transport agreement, a further important step on the way towards more liberalised transatlantic markets, to the benefit of the public and business alike.
It strikes me that the mobility of our citizens is an important factor in this as well, because, as you are aware, the citizens of 12 EU states still require visas even for brief visits to the United States.
The presidency is urging the US to allow all EU citizens to enjoy what is known as the US Visa Waiver Programme, and this, too, will be discussed at the summit.
That is something I would like to re-emphasise at this point, since there has, over recent days, been a degree of irritation in certain Member States in the belief that the presidency did not perhaps want that, and, together with our successors in the Presidency, I should like to stress that we do indeed want all Member States included in the US Visa Waiver Programme.
The United States and the EU are already the most closely intermeshed economic areas in the world.
We believe - and I know a large number of you think likewise - that our potential for economic cooperation is far from exhausted.
Different approaches to regulation in the EU and in the USA give rise to unnecessary transaction costs, and so a further dismantling of non-tariff barriers to trade is urgently called for.
It is for that reason that we want to use the EU-US Summit as a springboard for launching strengthened transatlantic commerce.
At the heart of this initiative is a mutual political commitment to deepen cooperation with a view to achieving regulatory convergence and even closer economic links, and we want to try to use this initiative to re-energise cooperation on a whole array of fronts, for example, on conditions for investment, in the regulation of financial markets, in new industrial technologies and intellectual property.
We expect to be able to put together an ambitious package that will give renewed impetus.
One thing I would like to stress is that this initiative is not being undertaken in opposition to multilateral efforts towards trade facilitations; on the contrary, it is intended to complement them and to support the successful conclusion of the Doha round.
Another focus of the Summit will be the topics of energy security and climate change, which the presidency sees as key transatlantic issues for the future.
At the EU Spring Summit on 8/9 March we agreed on far-reaching climate protection goals and an energy action plan.
In the light of these decisions, we want to use the EU/USA Summit to develop closer cooperation with the USA in these areas.
I do not need to make a particular effort to remind your House that there have, over recent years and decades, been recurrent differences of opinion between the EU and the USA on climate change issues, some of which have been about the fundamental issues involved, but I do believe we can rely on the impression that a lot of things are changing in the States, particularly as regards cooperation in research and technology, where the Americans, too, are very interested in stepping up cooperation with the EU.
Not least because this is a major market for the future, we must aim at pooling our energies and radically shortening the innovation cycles for new processes and technologies, and it is in our own most intrinsic interest that our transatlantic partners must take a lead here.
That I say not least with my eye on the research community in Europe and the influence your House has on it.
I am persuaded that energy security and climate change will be among the transatlantic projects of the twenty-first century.
Security and prosperity in Europe and America depend to a fundamental degree on peaceful and stable development throughout the world, and so one thing for which we want to use the EU/USA summit is to send out a signal of the broadest possible agreement on foreign and security policy issues.
In the Middle East conflict, by way of the revival of the Quartet, we have - and I will be very cautious in what I say on this point - re-opened the door to a solution, at least to some small extent.
In our dealings with Iran and its nuclear partners, we have managed to preserve the united front presented by the international community, which is, I do believe, a precondition for the reaching of an agreed solution with Iran.
We are working closely together with NATO and the United States in the civil and military stabilisation of Afghanistan, and we want to further step up this cooperation, especially as regards the training of the police; the same goes for the planned ESDP mission in Kosovo.
These are but a very few of the international issues on which close cooperation across the Atlantic is necessary.
Perhaps I might conclude by referring once more to the European Security Strategy, which states that, 'no single country is able to tackle today's complex problems on its own' - a statement that is true of the EU, and also of the United States.
It is only if we are able to harness the influence, experience and potential of Europe and America, and to mobilise their best forces and ideas, that we will be able to find viable responses for our common future and the future of subsequent generations.
