Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in the Europe of 27, there are few political organisations that claim to work in such a transparent and structured way as the EU itself.
Yet a look at these work programmes, including the one for 2008, just leaves us with long faces.
For 2008, too, we find the habitual proclamation of better regulation, but programmes stand or fall on their implementation rather than their proclamation.
From the point of view of budgetary control, 2008 will be another disappointing year.
We note the lack of management measures and proposed approaches to implementing the promise Commissioner Kallas made in 2005 to obtain an unqualified Statement of Assurance on the EU budget from the European Court of Auditors by 2009.
I should like to remind the House of the 44% error rate for the Structural Funds that has been detected once again for the 2005 budget.
After all, the Commission President has confirmed this promise: we would have expected the Commission to remember its promise and take the necessary steps in its own field of direct management, at least.
2008 is the last year in which the Commission will be able to change anything.
Incidentally, it is the first year in which the recipients of EU subsidies have to be disclosed.
We would have logically expected to see a mention of this milestone of EU support policy, too.
Perhaps the silence means this disclosure is not taking place?
After all, up to now, there has not been a single document - even a single line - about how the Member States and the individual EU funds are to implement the publication requirement.
Nor have there been any suggestions whatsoever as to what is to be done with this information.
We need, or rather the Commission needs, to think about the way this information is to be used and the consequences of this information for the individual policy areas.
The bottom line is that, in our view, the 2008 work programme is a disappointing document in which the Commission falls far short of its own proclamations.
