Mr Posselt, the entire political situation in Kosovo continues to be determined by the status process.
When the UN's Special Envoy, Martti Ahtisaari, forwarded the Comprehensive Proposal for a Kosovo Status Settlement to the UN Security Council, this process became the definitive responsibility of the Security Council.
EU Foreign Ministers have repeatedly given their unequivocal support to Special Envoy Ahtisaari as well as expression to their conviction that the Ahtisaari package represents an important basis for sustained, economic and political development in Kosovo and can also contribute to the consolidation of stability in the region as a whole.
Following the G8 Summit of Heads of State or Government, at which agreement could not be reached in relation to Kosovo, the EU Presidency called on participating parties to intensify their efforts in order to adopt a new UN Security Resolution at the earliest possible juncture.
The European Union is also continuing to follow the Status process intensively.
The preparations carried out by the European Union in terms of its contribution to a future, international, civilian presence in Kosovo following a solution to the status issue have, by and large, made headway.
The European Union is prepared to assume an important role, in close cooperation with other international actors as regards a possible future, international, civilian presence.
To this end, planning teams are to be found on site which are making preparations for possible future work undertaken by an EU special envoy and an ESDP [European Security and Defence Policy] mission in the areas of policing and the justice system.
The conclusion of these preparations will depend on how the status process itself and the actual status solution continue to progress.
As in the past, in future too, substantial assistance will be required from the international community in general, and the European Union in particular, in order to improve the economic framework conditions and the social situation in Kosovo.
This can only be achieved in close cooperation with international financial institutions and partners on site.
As soon as a precise cost estimate is available, which naturally also depends on the status solution, the Commission will draw up an overall finance package which will also be the subject of a donor conference.
This donor conference will only take place once Kosovo's status has been clarified.
