Mr President, Commissioner, High Representative, the fact that the Quartet now intends to act jointly in the region is good news.
That is an important message, because, as we have often said in this House, it is only through concerted action that the Quartet acquires the credibility it needs to be able to give all parties the essential security guarantees.
In the eyes of the region, no member of the Quartet can do that on its own.
May I congratulate you on this development and also on the fact that it can be combined with the Arab initiative.
If we want to advance - and we have discussed this so often - and avoid giving in to hopelessness and despair, we must be clear about one thing: the moderates on both sides must be able to create conditions in their own territories in which the foundations can be built for a peace process that will not be demolished by the provocations of the extremist minorities on the other side.
This must therefore be the starting point.
It is true, of course, that Israel must release the money.
It is also true that this patchwork situation in the West Bank, with checks and settlements everywhere, which nips any economic development in the bud, must be ended, and that conditions must prevail in which economic development is possible again.
We can pump as much money into the West Bank as we like, but the right conditions simply must be created there.
It must also be said, however, that what is happening in Gaza is a civil war between Palestinians.
The answer is not an international force deployed between Israel and Gaza but meetings between the warring factions to bring about a satisfactory end to the conflict.
All of these issues are plainly interconnected, but please let us remember that everyone is responsible for his own domain.
We cannot take over this responsibility.
Accordingly, we must demand an end to the civil war.
Anyone trying to resolve conflicts between the rival groups by military means is destroying the future prospects of his own people.
For this reason we must take care to seek our starting points here and thus create a platform from which the Quartet can operate successfully and give us a genuine chance of progress.
