Vice-President of the Commission.
Mr President, honourable Members, I would like to begin by offering my sincere thanks to Mrs Sornoza Martínez, the rapporteur, on her work on this proposal.
We are discussing a very important directive this evening.
It is an important part of our strategy for banishing mercury from our environment for ever - a strategy that has long been backed by the European Parliament.
Mercury and its compounds are highly toxic to human health and the environment.
The directive will therefore bring a major step forward, it will restrict the marketing of certain new measuring devices containing mercury and in that way prevent some 30 tonnes of mercury entering the environment through waste every year.
The proposed directive aims to cut the use of this hazardous material in measuring instruments to a minimum and to allow exceptions only where the risks are negligible or there are no substitutes.
Thus, the marketing of mercury-containing fever thermometers will be banned completely, for example, and the sale of all other mercury-containing measuring instruments to the general public will be prevented.
I believe it is right that there will be an exception for blood pressure meters in the health sector and for antique measuring instruments.
The proposals were drawn up on the basis of a risk assessment and detailed impact assessment that were developed for the mercury strategy.
This directive does not only safeguard human health and the environment, it will also serve to maintain the internal market, since it will introduce harmonised rules for the marketing of mercury-containing measuring devices everywhere in the Community.
The rapporteur recommends approval of the Council common position without further amendment.
The Commission agrees with this entirely, since the common position has adopted some of the amendments tabled by Parliament at first reading and represents a balanced compromise between the effort to ban the use of mercury to the greatest possible extent in order to safeguard human health and the environment on the one hand while ensuring the safety of patients in the health sector on the other.
I must confirm what the rapporteur has already said: the majority of experts still consider mercury-containing blood pressure meters, sphygmomanometers, essential in the treatment of certain life-threatening diseases.
We shall have to look into this matter, however.
If there are safe alternatives available for these instruments, too, then mercury should be banned here as well.
The Commission will therefore be reviewing the derogation in two years' time.
A further derogation means that antique measuring instruments, that is those that are at least 50 years old, will still be able to be sold.
The Commission is able to agree with this because antique instruments are predominantly collector's items which, because of their value, are handled very carefully and come onto the market in only very small numbers.
In the Commission's view, however, there is no justification for an unlimited derogation for the further sale of new mercury barometers to consumers.
Since there are alternatives to mercury barometers that are just as decorative and reliable, there is absolutely no need for this hazardous substance to be used in the manufacture of barometers.
An unlimited derogation for such instruments would be in stark contradiction to the stance taken by the European Parliament in relation to highly dangerous substances when adopting the new REACH legislation on chemicals.
A transitional period of two years, as now provided in the directive, is perfectly adequate to allow the few remaining manufacturers of mercury barometers to convert to alternatives.
In any case, many of those manufacturers, if not all of them, already offer alternative products.
Under no circumstances, therefore, will the Commission agree to the amendments that have been tabled seeking permanent derogations for barometers.
I urgently request your assistance in backing the common position so that the directive can now be adopted at second reading.
