Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yes, the proposal for a directive on the internal transport of dangerous goods is an important issue, because around 110 billion tonnes/km of dangerous goods are transported in the EU every year: 58% by road, 25% by rail and, up to now, 17% by inland waterway.
The purpose of this proposal for a directive is to simplify and coordinate the existing rules on the transport of dangerous goods.
It also extends the scope of the EU provisions, which currently cover transport by road and rail, to transport by inland waterway.
That simplification reduces the red tape and improves intermodality.
Common rules on transport by road, rail and inland waterway ensure a uniform level of safety throughout the Community in internal and cross-border transport.
Uniform rules governing means of transport simplify and promote multimodal transport.
Extending the scope of the provisions to inland waterway transport is a welcome move.
That means the same safety rules apply to all Community inland waterways.
That will have a positive impact on working conditions on board, on transport safety and on protection of the environment.
Uniform rules reduce costs by avoiding the need for a variety of authorisations and permissions.
Moreover, that is likely to improve the potential use and the market prospects of transport by inland waterways; after all, we are trying to shift more transport of dangerous goods to inland waterways.
The draft amendments adopted by the Committee on Transport and Tourism largely reflect the Council's position.
We are in agreement and we want to try to get this through at first reading if possible.
Let me underline that I do beg the House to adopt one particular draft amendment, which the rapporteur has already mentioned and which represents a compromise.
It is important to include sensible provisions in this dossier.
Here we are in agreement with the Commission and the Council.
The draft amendment relates to the provision allowing Member States to lay down specific safety requirements and possibly also to prescribe the means of transport if they can justify it before the Commission.
In conclusion, let me give warm thanks to the rapporteur, with whom we were able to work so well together, and request the House to adopt this report at first reading.
