- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, The Lisbon Strategy is our regular topic of discussion in the run-up to the Spring Summit every year, and we would do well to take more seriously the goals that we - in the Council, in the Commission, in Parliament - set ourselves.
The only thing I would urge is that we should do what has been agreed, to convince by our actions rather than just making announcements, and that I would sum up briefly as 'better lawmaking'.
Better lawmaking calls for more transparency, and more transparency will be achieved if all laws are enacted through the codecision procedure.
Already today, we have heard talk of 'pre-examination', of how every European law must be subject to prior scrutiny in relation to subsidiarity, in order to allow its added value to European legislation, its effects on growth and job creation, to become visible.
We have heard about cost-benefit analyses, about shorter legislative processes; five years are enough to make a law, not ten at least.
We must improve the instruments whereby the how and when of our laws' implementation is monitored.
Secondly, we have appointed people with responsibility at the national level.
What are they doing?
Do the national parliaments give an account every six months of how things stand as regards the Lisbon process, of what they plan to do and when?
Where is the report from the Commission and the national monitors to this House every year?
Thirdly, it is making the single market a reality that is the work we have to take home with us, strengthening innovation through the efficient use of resources, taking action to save energy, creating the research area, strengthening the SMEs, and that means making it easier to establish new ones, promoting settlement and development in rural areas and encouraging handovers, and at last actively addressing the consequences of demographic change, so that they do not become a hindrance for our continent.
We have enough goals to aim at; it is actions that build credibility and confidence.
