on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would, of course, first of all like to congratulate my colleague, Mr Paasilinna, on this laborious work.
It is truly a very difficult birth - not just the report to this Parliament, but also the Institute as such.
In fact, it is sad that the EIT has to begin such an important job with so little enthusiasm, particularly on the part of some Council members and perhaps on the part of the Commission too.
I fully agree with the essence of the Commissioner's comments, even those concerning the KICs.
As Mr Paasilinna, whom I warmly congratulate on his work, has also proposed, we need a limited number in order to assemble any pilot schemes at all.
This is absolutely right.
I hope that the schemes will also produce positive results.
As regards financing, I am also in agreement.
It was very frivolous of some Council members to say: you want to do something new, alright, but nothing will come from new funding.
Simply take the money that is available to you in the budget.
There should be no frivolity where something new has to be created.
The fact that we are essentially using research funds is totally acceptable, but it is absolutely right to seek new funding opportunities, for this project as well as for Galileo for example, partly in the context of surplus budgeted funds, funds that have not been spent, and partly with new commitments by the individual Member States.
One important point - and Mr Paasilinna has also brought this up - is that the EIT and the KICs have helped us in holding on to, as well as winning back, high-calibre employees in Europe.
We know from many analyses that people are leaving not necessarily because of finance, but because of opportunity.
If we can recreate new opportunities through these institutions so that high-calibre employees stay in Europe or come back from America or other countries, then a substantial contribution will have been made to Europe once again becoming a hub for new technologies.
