on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I think that we in the European Union have to all intents and purposes achieved very high safety standards for products.
I agree with Mr Verheugen when he says that we can never achieve 100% safety, but our aim in Europe must be to have the highest possible level of safety and we have not yet achieved that target.
We still have a great deal to do to make this target a reality.
These recall campaigns (it is not just Mattel, there have also been others in recent months) have shown that there is a very great need for action in the European Union to guarantee that product safety is at the highest possible level.
Three months before Christmas we are, of course, keeping a close eye on toys that need to be especially safe.
Our children are our future; therefore we have to pay particular attention to their safety.
Hence we are already very annoyed that it is taking the European Commission so long to revise the Toys Directive.
I hope that it is true that this directive will have been revised by the end of this year, or even before the end of this year, so that we can actually bring it completely up to date.
I am also very anxious about which proposals will be forthcoming because this has always been very unclear to date.
There is one further point that is quite important, namely the implementation of this law.
The Commissioners have also been addressing it and that, too, is a problem.
On Monday I had the opportunity to go to a certification institute and to have a look and inquire as to what the problems are.
One very clear problem that was highlighted is that the CE marking does not contain what it actually promises.
We need to work on this and hence we are demanding that there should also be additional safety labelling, particularly for toys, so that safety can also be guaranteed.
It is not enough for inspections to be carried out when the products are already in the shops; they must be made beforehand.
We need these inspections beforehand and they must also be compulsory wherever necessary and this is very particularly the case with toys.
A third and final point: the RAPEX system needs to be improved.
When we look at the figures, we see that activity in this area varies considerably from one Member State to the next.
I think that we have to appeal to the Member States here to improve and promote this system so that we are able actually to carry out the necessary product recalls as well as ban products.
