Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank the rapporteur for presenting this report.
I believe it is important in this context to point out that we must look at energy policy in terms of a number of different objectives.
How can we ensure security of supplies, how can we ensure it does not harm the environment, and how can we also get it at a good price?
If we take account of those three factors in each of these debates, we will realise quite soon that renewables naturally play a part, probably an important part, in the future shape of energy, but that this sector alone cannot resolve the problem of energy supplies in terms of price formation, environmental impact or security of supplies.
That is why it is important to ask the questions that have already been put clearly by various speakers today, for instance to look at the question of how and where we can use renewable energy in the most economically intelligent manner, as we do for other resources.
We must consider where we can put the euro to the most effective use, which means we must not, for instance, promote solar energy in an area where conditions are not at all conducive to its use.
We must consider whether decisions and percentages, whether binding targets will really bring us forward or whether it would not be more sensible to do a little more to promote subsidiarity and to support initiatives that go in very different directions in different sectors depending on the Member State concerned, while leading to a comparable objective.
At the same time we must identify the drawbacks that also exist in the case of renewables.
We have already had debates about biofuels.
Six months ago the subject never even came up.
We have debated wind power and the damage it can cause.
In my country we have problems with finding enough space to develop wind power.
That does not mean saying no to these renewables, but it does mean a differentiated debate and a differentiated response, for in the end a sensible energy policy must not raise false expectations it cannot fulfil but must raise expectations that it can then fulfil step by step.
I thank the Commission for its very open and differentiated approach.
