on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, I would also like to address the question of how Europe is to find its way back to its citizens and to discuss climate and energy policy as an example.
I believe there has seldom been so much attention paid to the particular role and task of Europe as in the last few weeks, when everything has focused on the big question of climate protection policy and energy policy, that is on the biggest environmental policy issue of all.
I was very pleased with the outcome of the summit, because even though there is still a lot to negotiate in the small print the summit still achieved what the public expected after being made aware of the issues by Al Gore or the Stern report.
What the summit achieved was to give the public the impression that we are initiating a paradigm change, that we are bringing renewable energies out of a niche and that we will in future be backing energy efficiency in quite a different way than before.
The key thing now is that we should also live up to the expectations we have awakened in Europe.
If I may say so, Commissioner, I am not yet so sure that we will, because Mrs Merkel had scarcely announced this summit decision and declared the successes when it started all over again in the nation states and to some extent in the Commission, too.
Everything was called into question again.
As always, Mr Verheugen came out against the progressive trio of Commissioner Piebalgs, Commissioner Dimas and Commissioner Kroes.
And I am not so sure whether Commissioner Barrot will be able to implement the results of the summit properly, neither - I am saying this expressly here - do I have any confidence in Commission President Barroso and the energy policy revolution he proclaims.
You really are the right person, Commissioner, to try and see that, for example, the debate about the European constitution gets a better future by ensuring that the great expectations that we European politicians have awakened these last few months are not disappointed again.
The negotiations on the small print of the summit declaration are only just starting, and I can see some powerful, influential men on the European stage, including Mr Verheugen and Mr Barroso, who despite Chirac's departure in France are building a kind of old boys network standing in the way of the sustainability of these summit decisions.
