Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, my sincere thanks to our rapporteur, my fellow Member Mr Paasilinna, to all the shadow rapporteurs and fellow Members on the committees asked for their opinion, who have been working very constructively in recent months to bring the EIT into a form on which we can all make a decision tomorrow with a large majority.
The European Institute for Innovation and Technology has the opportunity and potential to become a European beacon.
I am firmly persuaded of this and I regret that we have scheduled the debate on this important project so late in the day.
This matter really deserved to be discussed in the morning.
I very much hope, however, that the amendments to reject the Commission's entire proposal will not gain a majority tomorrow.
We were always of one mind in setting objectives for the European Institute of Technology: we want to strengthen Europe's capacity for innovation.
We also have to improve the transfer of technology and know-how from research and training to industry and to the economy - here too we were always of one mind.
The crucial question was always: can the European Institute of Technology make a valuable contribution to this?
I think that the EIT in the form we now have it in Mr Paasilinna's report really does have the capacity to carry out this work and generate European added value.
We have called a halt to the way, unlike the Americans, we have been locating the institute out on its own and pumping a lot of finance into it.
No, we are doing this our own way, the European way, by building up a networking structure here and promoting and supporting the universities, polytechnics, research establishments and teaching institutions we already have here.
We shall then hopefully create European added value through an intelligent networking structure.
I am confident that the EIT will be a success and I am happy to be making my contribution to it.
I will not now speak on behalf of Munich, which has also, of course, been lobbying for the headquarters of the EIT.
It is important that tomorrow we give our blessing to the project with a wide majority.
