President-in-Office of the Council.
Mr Posselt, in its conclusions of 11 December 2006, the Council assured Croatia of its recognition of the country's progress, whilst emphasising that the accession negotiations had started well and results were starting to emerge.
At the same time, the Council emphasised that Croatia must now build on the progress to date.
The progress made by the candidate country continues to dictate the tempo of the accession negotiations.
As the Presidency has told Croatia, including within the framework of the third meeting of the Stabilisation and Association Council on 6 March, the Croatian Government should pay particular attention to accelerating its reform of the judicial system and of the public administration.
Of Croatia's outstanding commitments arising from the Stabilisation and Association Agreement, the Council has highlighted state aid and the acquisition of property.
The Council welcomes the fact that Croatia is continuing to cooperate unconditionally with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia, and emphasises that it must do so also in future.
At the same time, the Croatian judiciary needs to improve the prosecution and conviction of war criminals.
Croatia must also step up its efforts in the field of good neighbourly relations, including the efforts to be made towards resolving outstanding bilateral issues, particularly border disputes.
The Council has already completed the screening process for 22 negotiating chapters.
In respect of seven of these chapters, benchmarks have been laid down that are to be met by Croatia as a precondition for the opening of negotiations.
Croatia has been asked directly to submit its negotiating position on each of the remaining 15 chapters to the Accession Conference.
As regards the opening and closing of negotiating chapters in the accession negotiations, two chapters - science and research and education and culture - have been opened and closed again temporarily.
Three more negotiating chapters - economic and monetary policy, enterprise and industrial policy, and customs union - have been opened.
In addition, both parties' negotiating positions on Chapter 7 - intellectual property law - have been submitted, and this is expected to be opened shortly.
Croatia has submitted its negotiating position on five of the other chapters to the Conference.
