Mr President, colleagues, it is a great pleasure for me and for all of us to welcome the President of the Republic of Portugal, Mr Aníbal Cavaco Silva, to the European Parliament today.
Mr President, during your 10 years as Prime Minister of Portugal, you consolidated the country's democratic institutions and successfully promoted its economic development.
As a forward-thinking European, you guided Portugal with a sure hand on the road to European Union membership.
I see that the President of the European Commission, José Manuel Durão Barroso, is here too, and of course I should also point out that Portugal has recently taken over the Presidency of the Union.
You too, Mr Barroso, are warmly welcome today.
It is 10 years since a President of the Portuguese Republic last addressed the European Parliament.
Since then we have come a long way together.
You are here today in the Parliament in Strasbourg, as President of Portugal, to mark your country's third EU Presidency.
Portugal's three Presidencies can best be summed up as 'ambitious on the Community's behalf', for on each occasion Portugal has tackled vital contemporary issues - the Lisbon Strategy, for example, or the EU's relations with Africa and with South America.
This Presidency is no exception.
On Portugal's agenda this time are the successful conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference and adoption of the Reform Treaty; the strengthening of foreign and security policy and, in particular, the development of closer relations with Latin America, Africa and the Mediterranean region; further action on climate change; and realisation of the Lisbon Strategy.
The discoveries that were made in all quarters of the globe by the navigators who sailed from Lisbon in the 14th century were effectively the first step towards globalisation.
That opening to the world and the culture of tolerance that your country has developed down the centuries constitute particularly valuable experience in the context of today's globalisation, and they are thus an advantage to us in European Union.
Portugal's efforts to develop relations with Latin America and to pursue contacts with South America, through its special relationship with Brazil, very much reflect our own view.
Your culture of tolerance and your global outlook represent an opportunity in today's world.
Under this Presidency, your country will be able to build on the work of the 14th-century explorers with the same courage that they had and the same persistence.
We wish you much luck and success in your task.
(Applause)
