on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Madam President, this is in some respects a very honest report.
The wording is clear.
There has been no Treaty basis for this energy policy to date.
Correct!
Then for me the question is: why is this initiative being taken?
The initiative is being taken - we have now heard this more clearly in the spoken contributions than could be read in the report itself - on account of Russia's energy policy.
This base line is precisely the thread that runs through the entire report.
It is an anti-Russian report - as clearly worded in a variety of ways at various points - and it is a report that clearly states that the European Union wants to be a global player and a foreign policy on energy is virtually a means to that end.
This, too, is honest in some respects and something which may or may not be politically desirable.
We do not want this!
Clear demands are being made in relation to certain projects.
The lobbying policy for the Nabucco pipeline project, which is also being pursued within this Parliament, can also be found in this report.
Countries are dealt with collectively: Turkey is regarded almost exclusively as the transit hub for energy supplies.
However, Turkey is rather more than this.
I find the wording with regard to the USA particularly good.
Here it states: 'underlined the importance of enhanced energy dialogue with the US and other key energy partners that share EU values.'
I would just remind you that the USA is conducting a war in Iraq with a range of allies, also partly because of energy issues.
If these are the same values, we must be very clear about saying 'no' to this development!
The wording is clear that, in the G8, the various Member States involved will be backing interests in the energy sector, and a link will be established with the military components.
As I have said: it is in some respects a very honest report.
A colleague of mine has described it thus: this report has a whiff of the Cold War about it.
I believe this is right and my Group will therefore be rejecting this report.
