on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, India and Pakistan have waged three wars over the Kashmir region.
This very much reminds me of the dispute between Germany and France over the Alsace-Lorraine region - where this sitting is being held.
Three wars were waged in this region, too - but Germany and France decided after the Second World War to put an end to the confrontation and make cooperation the maxim of their policy.
The successes of this policy can be seen in the European Union today.
The Socialist Group in the European Parliament would like to see India and Pakistan, too, moving on from confrontation and making cooperation the maxim of their policy.
People in the Kashmir region would benefit tremendously and the whole region would blossom.
I believe SAARC (South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation) has the potential to be a similar success story to the EU.
Naturally, peace thrives best where democracy prevails.
In this report, we are very critical of the absence of democracy - the democratic deficits - in the Kashmir region, and also of the many human rights violations.
People are suffering on both sides of the Line of Control.
All parties involved are called on, therefore, to introduce democracy and respect for human rights there once and for all.
We can see that there is a tremendous amount of violence there - consisting of violence within the region and also infiltration from outside - and 80 000 people have lost their lives.
There must be an end to the arrival of violent groups in the region from across the border.
Naturally, we call on the military, too, to respect human rights.
We also call on human rights commissions to penalise, including in court, violations of this kind taking place in both countries.
It is unacceptable that people are being kidnapped, tortured and killed with impunity.
In our opinion, the EU should support the region's environmental and economic rehabilitation.
Excellent work has been done there in the field of humanitarian aid, as I have been able to see with my own eyes.
This commitment must continue.
This report is evidently the first in the world to deal with Kashmir.
I wish to thank the rapporteur for her courage in including quite a few things in her report.
We have been struggling over this for months.
I believe that this report will help the people in the region and also assist the India-Pakistan peace process.
