Since these things happen on a local basis, I am not aware of any complaints, but I will say quite clearly - and this is where I agree with the honourable Member - that the issue here is not the protection of the environment and the possibility of someone's freedom to travel being restricted, but rather security; to all those affected, I would like to say - and in doing so I am giving my backing to the security personnel who have to carry out checks - that, when competition produced increased numbers of passengers, what matters is their safety and not that they be restricted.
As we have learned from events in the United Kingdom, it may well be enough to exploit one, two or three of such loopholes.
It is right and proper that, after a given time, measures be reviewed in order to ascertain whether or not they have achieved their purpose.
Not everything needs to be regulated all the time, but certain measures must be brought in, and, when they are, it is necessary that the public accept a certain amount of responsibility for themselves.
The fact is that so much information has been made available that the waste that has to be collected - ranging from lighters to bottles larger than 100 ml - would not be there in the first place, if people had given the matter a little thought before embarking on a flight.
Subject: Gay Pride marches
As a reaction to the opposition to and attacks on some Gay Pride marches both inside and outside the EU in 2006, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 16 June 2006 on the increase in racist and homophobic violence in Europe.
This resolution recalled that European States have a duty to allow such marches and to protect participants, and notably condemned the Russian authorities' decision to ban the first Gay Pride in Moscow on 27 May 2006.
With the season of Gay Pride marches now approaching, concerns arise regarding the effective protection of participants in EU Member States, while there is open opposition to the Moscow Gay Pride march taking place this year again.
What measures will the Council take to ensure that Member States' authorities effectively protect participants?
How would any incident of intolerance of the LGBT community affect the Council's relationship with other governments?
