Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, a great deal has been said about the successful implementation of the Lisbon Strategy, or at any rate about the endeavours to achieve it.
Before you leave, I should like to ask you to speak out, at the next meeting, in favour of clear outlines and clear boundaries, for which the individual will be responsible, 'individual' meaning the Member State and the European Union.
It became apparent from last week's inter-parliamentary meeting in Brussels that our counterparts in the various Member States had brought with them all their criticisms and demands in relation to education, employment, social security, climate protection and so on, and insisted on getting solutions to them, yet it is in the hands of the Member States that most of these powers and responsibilities lie.
More transparency and more information are needed if people are to know where, at the end of the day, responsibility lies, which responsibility lies with the EU and which with the Member State.
Education is at the heart of the Lisbon Strategy.
The Commission's most recent progress report showed that the Member States are still making considerable efforts to achieve the five targets by 2010, and that will require, as a matter of urgency, more investment in education and the specification of explicit rights and obligations in that area and in that of lifelong learning.
If people are to be more mobile, their qualifications will also have to be recognised.
Those that we have acquired within the European Union are still of too little practical use to us.
I would ask you to take account of that in your work.
Last week, I had a very interesting meeting with the European Young Socialists, who asked me to pass on to you the message that education is also an end in itself, that it does not always have the sole purpose of helping people to become workers adapted to the labour market, but also has a great influence on the development of personal self-awareness, of social skills and of cultural understanding.
It is that that I see as a great education task for all of us.
