on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, Madam Vice-President, quite honestly I am not particularly convinced by the Commission communication on the Policy Strategy for 2008.
Why should that be?
For one thing, it is rather like a store catalogue and the priorities are not established clearly enough.
For another, there are many points that are highlighted as 'key actions' but they are very vague and say very little.
To mention a few examples: the initiative aimed at reconciling family and professional life, legislative initiatives to strengthen consumer protection, further initiatives to implement the EU Maritime Policy - we find one initiative after another, but in what specific way consumer protection is to be strengthened, what you intend to propose in that area, does not appear.
All too often there is nothing precise.
With regard to the social situation in the European Union, you announce - as it says here - a social reality stocktaking, and at the same time you announce visionary initiatives to promote solidarity and access of citizens to rights and opportunities.
I have to say I was quite amazed to read that here.
Do you really believe you can convince the public about the European Union and especially about Europe's possibilities, and allay people's fears for the future, when in this paper you as good as admit that you know nothing of the social reality in the European Union?
My fellow Members Mr Nassauer and Mr Swoboda have already raised this question.
I do not believe you will win the public over again like that.
Now a word on the subject of cutting red tape and better regulation, which is said to be at the heart of the Commission's daily work.
Better regulation does not start simply by presenting a much more detailed strategy; it is important and essential to assess its impact, and it will in fact be interesting to debate the results of the external evaluation of the impact assessment system.
I would like to stress, however, that better regulation must not necessarily mean deregulation or boil down to minimal regulation.
Finally, Madam Vice-President, I would like to ask what is happening about the announced withdrawals of legislative proposals.
In my report, Parliament asked that the Commission's annual legislative and work programme should show precisely which legislative proposals the Commission is thinking of withdrawing.
Could you say briefly what is planned for the way ahead until 2008?
