author. - Madam President, in his report dated 22 March to the UN Human Rights Council, the UN's special rapporteur, Mr Philip Alston, explained in unequivocal terms what these summary executions in the Philippines are all about.
As has been formulated in the joint resolution, victims of these summary executions include members of opposition parties, the clergy, trade union leaders, farmers, journalists, lawyers, human rights activists and so on, as well as witnesses of other summary murders who were accused by government representatives of being a front for illegally armed groups.
The Arroyo Government bears a high degree of responsibility for over 800 political assassinations since he came to power in 2001.
Within the framework of so-called counterinsurgency, the Filipino army and police also resort to ways of committing political assassinations.
In a chapter of the report entitled Orders of Battle, in the light of documents held by the Armed Forces of the Philippines, it is clearly shown that summary executions are an army and police strategy.
This report, on which basis the Armed Forces of the Philippines act, and which is also frequently implemented by the Filipino National Police, makes provision for a military fight against political opponents.
Now, the Conservative group obviously wishes to strike any reference 'to the role played by the armed forces in these murders' from the joint resolution.
This is nothing short of scandalous.
This would not only amount to a slap in the face for the United Nations and its special rapporteur, but also a slap in the face for the victims and their friends and family.
In the UN special rapporteur's report, the following must also be emphasised: 'Newspapers carry almost daily reports of senior military officials urging that such groups be neutralised and calling upon the populace to recognise that to support their candidates in the upcoming elections would be to support the enemy.'
That leaves nothing to be desired in terms of clarity and I ask that the passage mentioned not be deleted from the resolution so that this House sends out a clear signal.
