Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to thank Mr Deprez most sincerely for his work on this subject and in other areas; as usual, it was outstanding.
This project has taken us a step forward.
Solidarity between Member States is strengthened and responsibility shared.
We cannot allow countries like Spain, Malta or Italy to be left on their own with this problem.
We must also look at the green border, however.
There is large-scale immigration there, too.
For us socialists, however, it is also crucial that all aspects of human rights should be more than just on paper, that there should be no discrimination and that we in Parliament should check how this is translated into practice.
What happens to the people who are sent back?
Will they be handed back to these governments, some of which are corrupt?
We have seen the disaster in Morocco, when the people who were sent back were simply taken out into the Sahara and they would have preferred to let them die of thirst there without any water.
We must also include these matters and give them equal consideration.
We must not see FRONTEX and the Intervention Team as a panacea.
They are an instrument, but not the solution to the problem.
We need a common migration policy, not just a common deportation policy.
We do not need a new defensive wall for Europe, or an iron curtain in the Atlantic or the Mediterranean, what we need to do is to tackle the problem head on.
And that includes pressing on with solving the problems in the countries from which the migrants come.
Let me tell you something.
If climate change gets worse, if the governments in the countries of origin become even more corrupt and remain corrupt, then we will have to expect an even greater influx.
Because we would do no differently, we would also seek our fortune somewhere else instead of dying of hunger or in poverty.
My congratulations again on the report.
I am glad we have done it.
We as Parliament must then also keep an eye on how things progress.
