Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a serious climate problem.
No one is denying that.
The political issue, however, is how we approach the effort to solve the problem.
I must say that we have had great difficulties with the present report as regards the manner in which the problem is being addressed.
Problems are not solved by describing doomsday scenarios and speaking of human-rights violations or by adopting a disheartening tone instead of proposing solutions.
The aim must be to search realistically and objectively for solutions, weighing up diverse arguments.
In this respect I find it regrettable that we have not been prepared to countenance divergent assessments regarding the causes of climate trends and changes.
I am all for the inclusion of ambitious goals, but it is also essential to ensure that they are achievable, otherwise our climate policy will be ineffectual.
It is also wrong to establish taboos and say that the subject of coal and the development of clean-coal technology or the subject of nuclear power are off limits and that the only answer is renewable energy.
Such an approach completely fails to address the problem.
What is needed is a comprehensive debate in which all aspects are examined in detail and in which we are all open to a variety of instruments and to information from a wide range of sources.
I believe we should also consider, as part of that debate, what impact we can achieve with what resources.
How do we maximise the impact?
We should also reflect on costs.
I believe we should not only focus on the way in which national political decisions are taken but also consider, as one or two colleagues have said to me, how the development of technology can be spurred on and supported.
I do not see any sense in holding today's debate and then, two or three hours or two or three days later, discussing Lisbon strategies and the like in the same chamber.
These two debates must be rolled into one if we want to fight climate change and mitigate its effects.
In my view there has been only a limited opportunity here to voice the critical comments that we aired in our deliberations in committee.
I hope that the next time, when we deal with the full report from the Committee on Climate Change, we shall have a chance to put forward a rather wider spectrum of arguments.
