draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Development. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Development is making an effort to set priorities with its expenditure estimated in the budget.
We know that development aid, therefore our aid for the poorest people on the planet, is not something that happens by a snap decision and the results appear from nowhere, but there are processes here and we must work continually on these processes.
We have emphasised that we want to combat poverty.
This means we have to provide people with an education and ensure that they are healthy so that they are able to develop within their own environment, their own country.
We have invested a great deal of money in the past to combat malaria, tuberculosis and Aids and we want to help these countries genuinely develop through preventive measures such as, for example, the abolition of small arms, land mines and ABC weapons by setting up a conflict prevention network and cross-border cooperation between the developing countries.
It should not be the case here, however - and these are my two pleas to the Council and the Commission - that the Council - simply because a new topic appears on the agenda - says quickly: now we are starting to reorganise everything.
We must help Kosovo and we must help Palestine, and we fully agree on this.
We have to do this but we should not do it by extracting money from the poorest of the poor and by believing that we could detect something like continuity in this switchyard or that people outside might have the feeling that we are working on helping the poorest of the poor there in a really concentrated manner.
New money needs to be forthcoming here and I know we are talking about our taxpayers' money, but they have to be told this explicitly.
If we do this, we shall also be successful.
The second item is directed at the Commission.
You know exactly what our priorities are for combating poverty.
I have just referred to them: provision of health care and basic education so that people are able to earn something themselves at home.
We have put a great deal of money into the reserve and we shall not release this money until you have made it clear that you have accepted and adopted Parliament's priorities.
It is not micromanagement that we want to introduce, but we have made a political evaluation, which you have agreed.
We shall insist on it and implement it so that, as in other cases of foreign policy it, too, becomes reality and we shall therefore avail of our budget rights and opportunities to exert the appropriate pressure on you.
