on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, when it comes to discussing CO2 emissions, we are very quick to talk about cars, simply because the way to a person's guilty conscience is through their car.
That is why Mrs Harms, the Greens and many environmental organisations are particularly keen to talk about cars.
We are faced with a broken voluntary pledge - no doubt about that - and we therefore need regulation.
We have no alternative.
What you came here and told us, Mrs Harms, about the voluntary commitment being deliberately and strategically torpedoed by the car industry seems rather far-fetched to me.
Let me just remind you that a market comprises not only suppliers of products but also those who demand them.
We ourselves help to create demand too, and shortly, when we are driven home by the car service, we shall be using those very cars that do not meet the targets to which the car makers committed themselves.
I should like to see an initiative from the Greens.
If your intentions are honourable, please now make sure that the small cars which meet next year's voluntary target are ordered for Parliament.
In future legislation, it is imperative for us to ensure that the desired reductions stand up to cost-benefit analysis.
The Stern report which you and the Greens like to quote, Mrs Harms, calculates that, of 13 potential CO2-reduction measures, those targeting cars at the very top of the price range are actually the least effective.
Anyone making political demands for stringent emission limits and more efficient cars must recognise that the development and production cycle in the car industry takes five to seven years.
It is by failing to recognise that, Mrs Harms, that we put jobs at risk, not by recognising it.
I am therefore pleased that our rapporteur has done just this by saying that it is unrealistic to set any deadline before 2015.
Tomorrow Parliament will vote in favour of one of the options on the table, and it must be said that, whatever it is, whatever year is designated and whatever average value is set, it will still be more stringent and ambitious than any other regime in the world.
We should not lose sight of that.
There is an extremely fine line between carrot and stick for our car industry, and at the end of the day we must take great care to ensure that we really do export the best products and not perhaps our industry.
