Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today I would like to address two important reserves in the Commission Budget: one for buildings policy and one for staff.
Regarding the latter, it can be said that the screening report has shown us that the Commission employs almost 11 000 staff in administrative support and coordination - administering the administration.
If you add the translators and housekeepers to that, it then becomes the area with the greatest growth in staff numbers, because that adds a further 5 700 people.
Given that we mention 'better regulation' from time to time, we must immediately start requiring 'better organisation'.
To do that, we need more information, and that is what the reserve is for.
Part of the job that Parliament gave the Commission to do was benchmarking, comparing staff positions with those in international organisations.
The Commission is not allowing us to see this comparison, stating that it has agreed to keep the identities of those organisations anonymous.
That is a bit rich!
We can only make progress here if Parliament receives the information it has asked for - proper information, not fragments.
The screening gives us a one-off, first-time look at the staff structure of the Commission, for which we are grateful, but there are no conclusions, and the Commission has not produced an action plan.
I must ask firmly that this action plan be presented.
Nor are there any conclusions about buildings policy in Brussels.
The communication from the Commission in July on building needs does not take into account the results of the staff screening, although the same Commissioner is responsible for both.
You are not that Commissioner, which is disappointing and cannot continue.
The amounts placed in reserve by Parliament compel the Commission to link these two documents.
The Commission must finally get to work on this matter and do its job properly because, in my view, the results of the staff screening that we have been given so far cannot be presented to our voters.
