Mr President, I agree with the points that almost all the other Members made.
I say 'almost' all the Members, and will concentrate, therefore, on three formal aspects.
Point 1: We do it over and over again in this Parliament, and today we are doing it again: we relegate important legislative proposals to the evening sitting.
That way, we ensure that as few people as possible are listening and that, with only a very few exceptions, there is nobody sitting in the visitors' gallery, and we ensure that journalists, who should be reporting all this, are most likely already giving their attention to other things in the evening.
Secondly, we are always hearing, and we have heard in this debate too, that we, the European Parliament, have to stick our necks out at first reading and take particularly demanding positions, as the Council will subsequently put the brakes on anyway, and in the end we shall not get where we want to go.
I caution against this position: it was true for a long time but is increasingly no longer the case.
We saw it in relation to the air-quality regulations, for example, where there have been and still are initiatives where the Heads of State or Government, and even the Ministers for the Environment, have gone a long way with us even at first reading.
With the results we have decided upon, that will mean that in 10 to 15 years, in Central Europe, we shall have to cordon off all cities between Nuremberg and Bologna because we cannot keep within the values that have been set.
Thirdly, here in the European Parliament, we must implement a viable working relationship to achieve sensible joint solutions.
In what has occurred in relation to this Directive over the past weeks and months, I see a successful path and a successful attempt to do that.
Environmental, transport, economic and industrial matters are not yet included in a wise compromise, but they will be, I believe, after the result of tomorrow's vote.
Now all we have to do is persuade the rest of the world to join in and do something for the environment.
