Mr President, I would like to touch on two points.
The first is one on which I hope and believe we are firmly united, namely the view that conventional sources and forms of energy and technology will continue to play a major role in the future.
The idea that we can replace everything with energy from alternative sources is illusory.
We must, however, make conventional technology environment-friendlier - that is absolutely essential - and we must also ensure that conventional forms of technology become more efficient.
These are the views we share, and in these respects the report can be strongly endorsed.
The situation is perhaps somewhat different with regard to nuclear technology.
It must be absolutely clear, with no ifs or buts, that every country can choose its own forms of technology, in other words it can opt for nuclear technology or choose to get by without recourse to the nuclear option.
Another principle that must be common to all of us is the primacy of safety - not only safety in the energy production process but also, of course, safe final disposal and, what is very important in today's world, where the significance of the global dimension is constantly growing, the non-proliferation of nuclear technology that can be used for military purposes.
I would have liked to see the report focus rather more sharply on these issues.
We have, admittedly, addressed them in other reports, and I believe Europe must set the best of examples in this field.
Regardless of what might be called the ideological stance - whether we are for or against nuclear technology - safety must be absolutely paramount.
I hope that we in this Parliament and, of course, the Commission will be increasingly vigilant so as to ensure that all safety issues, including non-proliferation, remain in the foreground, otherwise we shall be failing in our responsibility for mankind and for peace in the world.
I hope that this message might yet come across more clearly tomorrow in some amendments than it does in Mr Reul's report.
