Mr President, fellow Members, I believe we should commend the Portuguese Presidency for the way in which the negotiations have been conducted: in a very dedicated and targeted manner.
I think it is good that you have adhered closely to June's mandate, with a few exceptions, and staved off the many extra requests, starting with the European Central Bank's request for an article on Austria's desire to limit the number of students from other countries.
None of this is part of the new Treaty and I believe you are on the home stretch.
There is not a great deal now to stop us reaching a consensus on the new Treaty.
The opt-outs are sad.
They give the impression of dissension and inconsistency.
They fragment the EU and are it also takes time to make decisions in the third pillar.
They really are a downer and predominantly what the United Kingdom wanted.
Andrew Duff had talked about a self-serving mentality.
I hope it does not set a precedent.
I believe London's fundamental requests have all been met.
I read with concern what was still being discussed yesterday in the House of Commons.
There is nothing more to be said on this.
It would be totally unacceptable to make even more demands now.
There will be discussion on Poland's request to anchor Ioannina somehow, but the capacity for a blockade cannot be increased.
We do indeed want to increase the capacity to act.
This must remain an exceptional case.
It was a gentlemen's agreement, and it should not become the rule.
I want us with the Commission and Council to be able to proclaim the Charter here in the Chamber with the three Institutions.
That would really be a good signal to send to the citizens.
I would also like see Mrs Wallström's request back again in the Treaty, namely that the citizens are given a right to receive information.
Two thirds of people feel uninformed.
This would be a good addition to the Treaty.
President-in-Office of the Council, Parliament will do everything it can to ensure that the Treaty of Lisbon comes into being.
I thank our three representatives as well as the President who will take care of this at the summit in Lisbon.
