on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by stating that we have a general problem with the existing financial perspective because, from the point of view of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, the budget we have until 2013 is not really adequate for the major challenges that Europe and the current 27 Member States are facing.
I should like to state that I see within the Council a lack of European spirit where budgeting and finances are concerned.
I think we need, as we have already declared with the Lisbon Strategy, a genuine high-tech offensive for Europe, if we really want to build the path towards the knowledge-based society.
We are unfortunately running way behind on this.
I also believe that we have to do even more for research and development as well as for lifelong learning if we want to make Europe's citizens properly fit and give them the skills to cope with globalisation.
We also have to create - and as all the polls show, the citizens of Europe are demanding this of us - a responsible foreign policy.
If, however, we want to invest more in crisis prevention and responsible action in hot spots around the world, we need appropriate resources, which we currently do not have to an adequate degree.
In relation to climate change policy, I also think that we have to show the world that well-understood climate change policy and selective growth go hand in hand.
Europe must take a major step forward here, as it is only by persuading other continents and large countries like China and India and the United States that we can draw up policy on climate change and create new jobs that we shall also win over the hearts of our citizens.
On the other hand, I think that we can, of course, economise on the European budget, on agricultural export subsidies, for example, as well as in the cultivation of tobacco and also on the costs of our meetings here in Strasbourg.
We can see that the budget is not adequate for our major, ambitious science projects like Galileo, the satellite navigation system.
Many previous speakers have already said so.
If we think this is politically correct, however, the Council must stir itself here, otherwise we shall lose contact with the United States, as well as with China and India.
With regard to the European Institute of Innovation and Technology, if we really want to show that Europe is a continent that genuinely values knowledge and wants to be a knowledge-based society, the Council will also have to do more here.
A common European will is required here, if we are to promote Europe.
In conclusion, I should like to thank all my fellow Members who have been collaborating on this budget.
It is only a compromise, but a good compromise, at least on Parliament's side, and one we shall be defending.
