on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, may I express my warm thanks to Mr Vernola for his report and for the cooperative way in which it was dealt with in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
It is with even more gratitude, however, that I congratulate our Montenegrin counterparts and the Commission, who have once again demonstrated that a European perspective fuels the development of democracy, the rule of law and stability.
In actual fact, however, I feel that the process is advancing too slowly.
For this reason I appeal to both parties, starting with ourselves, the European institutions, to remember that Montenegro, and indeed the entire Western Balkans, is part of Europe.
It is in our own interests that lasting peace and democracy should prevail there.
We should deepen our commitment to the whole region.
Our proposal for a specific agenda for a close economic and environmental partnership with the Western Balkans should be adopted.
Let us do away with visa requirements as soon as possible.
I ask Montenegro to ensure that progress reports no longer tell, as they have told for years, of inadequate efforts to fight corruption, of organised crime and of public institutions with insufficient capacities.
It must step up its efforts to put European values into practice.
These include an atmosphere of openness in which the activity of civil society can truly flourish and in which unrestricted freedom of the media is a matter or course.
Lastly, it must take on a more prominent role as a constructive player throughout the region as well as in efforts to resolve the issue of Kosovo's status.
Perhaps it can also rethink some of the steps that have led to dependence on countries outside Europe in certain areas.
Such steps include both the signing of the bilateral immunity agreement with the United States and legislation permitting unhealthy speculation in land and property, which undermines efforts to protect the environment and prevents truly sustainable development of Montenegro's stunningly beautiful coastal region.
The recent adoption of land-use planning objectives is an important step.
Once again, then, I offer my congratulations and my encouragement for further progress on the way to membership of the European Union.
