on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank you most sincerely for your commitment to this matter.
It has brought with it great progress in the development of this project in past months.
I should say at this juncture that I regard this project as the most important in the entire legislative term, although it is actually a pre-legislative rather than a legislative project.
Of course, we as Parliament do have an enormous interest - and this is also the key reason why this oral question was tabled again today - in the fact that we are very consciously keeping up the suspense and keeping the discussion going not only at the level of the working group we have set up and at committee level, but also here with you in plenary.
It is therefore also important that we have put this on the agenda today.
We also want to find something out from you - you are still not able to say much about the definite schedule - because from Parliament's point of view it is also significant, of course, in view of the upcoming elections in 2009, for our strategy as to how we continue to deal with the Frame of Reference.
Over the coming year there will be a preliminary draft, but there will not be a final text until April 2009.
In any case it will be so late that it will presumably no longer be possible to deal with the content in depth in this legislative term and the next Parliament will therefore have to do so in the next term of office.
I wish to emphasise very clearly once again that we think the Frame of Reference, if it is adopted by the Commission and inserted into the consultation document, must not to refer to subjects of contract law alone, and Parliament has continually made it clear by an outsize majority that this must go beyond the framework of pure contract law in order to have the desired effect.
We also want specifically to be able to consider the option of whether we can subsequently solve the many problems we have in the internal market in the shape of an optional instrument for cross-border businesses.
At the moment we have a situation in which we are having to live in a happy coexistence of the country of origin principle and country of destination principle alongside the many directives and European legislative decisions with up to 28 legal systems, all of which have also to be simultaneously applied - depending on the circumstances.
This is not right in practice because nobody - no solicitor, judge or barrister - is in a position to know 28 European legal systems.
Against this background one optional instrument could be an instrument that actually opens up the internal market, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as for the consumer, and throws open every kind of possibility in the internal market.
All the activities of the Commission and Parliament should be aimed at keeping this option open so that a final decision can be made on this in the next legislative term.
