Madam President, many thanks for this truly important debate, and in particular my sincere thanks once more to the rapporteur.
As I said a little while ago, as a woman and as the Commissioner for External Relations and European Neighbourhood Policy this issue is of course particularly important to me, and it is absolutely correct to say - as indeed I did at the start - that it is a general issue, one that unfortunately affects all of us in all countries.
This includes the European Union, but it is of course much more the case in poor countries, countries without the proper socioeconomic conditions, countries lacking, in particular, an effective police system - meaning that difficulties arise even at the detection stage - and also, in most cases, an effective judicial system.
After all, that too is crucial.
We are also aware that, in many of the countries that have been mentioned here, such as Central America and Mexico, along with many others, the phenomenon of corruption still exists, and mafia organisations work together with leading figures in the judiciary in some cases, which means that the detection rate is still very poor.
I agree with much of what has been said today: firstly legislative measures and secondly implementation measures.
In addition, I can reiterate that the Commission already has programmes in place and is working on these matters.
However, the time factor also has to be taken into account, of course.
Unfortunately, this phenomenon is not one that can be eradicated overnight; it can only be brought under control gradually in the context of socioeconomic development.
Sadly, it is something that we shall all have to deal with for some time to come.
Preventive measures must be taken, of course; I have just highlighted the example of 'Pro Jóvenes' as it is such an interesting programme.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you ever return to El Salvador - or even Guatemala, but particularly El Salvador - I would recommend taking a look yourselves.
This is at least a dash of good news.
I can only affirm that we shall of course continue our programmes, and shall also continue to conduct our assuredly critical dialogue with Mexico, but I readily admit that, as Mr Salafranca Sánchez-Neyra said, Mexico itself must be prepared to tackle this issue and take up the cause.
The thing is that, when a crime has been detected too late, it is very difficult to determine all aspects after the event.
Consequently, it is also very important to draw on all the relevant methods of modern police technology, as detection is the first factor and justice the second, and of course the question of general non-discrimination in society is also decisive.
I can only assure you that I am most certainly on your side in this matter.
