draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me first of all, on behalf of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, thank the rapporteur and our fellow Members on the Committee on Budgets for their continually constructive and effective cooperation.
Two closely linked topics in particular are central for us in the Committee on Industry.
On the one hand these concern - as has already been addressed today -Galileo and on the other hand, the European Institute of Innovation and Technology project.
Both initiatives involve ground-breaking projects of vital importance in terms of policy on innovation and industry that deserve our full support.
The European Institute of Innovation and Technology will make an important contribution to the transfer of technology from science to industry and to enterprises.
There is still a backlog of demand here in Europe.
Funding, however, raises questions.
The Committee on Industry has been arguing very clearly in favour of funding not being at the expense of other forward-looking programmes.
We should not therefore be taking money from the Seventh Research Framework Programme, from a programme for life-long learning or from the Trans-European Networks programme to finance the European Institute of Innovation and Technology.
No, we in the Committee on Industry are pleading for funds to be redeployed from the administrative budget for the benefit of the EIT.
Thankfully the Committee on Budgets has also accordingly undertaken to do this.
Furthermore, the Committee on Industry is pleading for clear funding even beyond its own budget line.
Considerably more problematic is Galileo.
Perhaps you would allow me simply to point out the following from the viewpoint of industrial policy: I believe there is agreement that we need Galileo and that it also has to be financed.
The latest resolution on Galileo has resulted in Parliament arguing for Community funding, as has also been proposed by the Commission.
Having said that, it is crucial, in my view, that the project ultimately continues.
The project does not have to be relaunched but can be based on the considerable efforts of the industrial enterprises involved.
This should also be taken into account during the upcoming negotiations.
Everything else regarding Galileo I am handing over to my colleague Mr Böge, who will also be responsible for continuing negotiations on the Committee on Budgets together with his colleagues here.
