on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, in 1918 independent Montenegro took a voluntary decision to unite with the neighbouring states of Serbia, Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, and Slovenia.
After the break-up of Yugoslavia, the Montenegrin electorate decided democratically in 2006 that they did not wish Montenegro to remain united with Serbia.
Montenegro thus became Europe's 49th independent state, a state in which most of the population are Slavs except in the regions bordering Albania and Kosovo, where ethnic Albanians predominate.
In terms of everyday politics, it is important that Montenegro should not become a haven for foreigners who want to pay less tax and launder ill-gotten gains.
Montenegro must find solutions to the problem of environmental pollution and to the plight of long-term refugees from Serbia and Kosovo.
The railways must be made serviceable again, and smuggling must be combated.
My group is pleased that the Committee on Foreign Affairs has adopted our amendments on refugees' living and working conditions.
People who are not currently nationals of any country must not remain stateless for ever, and Montenegro must follow the relevant guideline laid down by the Council of Europe.
Our proposal on the resumption of rail services to Nikšić on the Bosnian border and to Shkodër in Albania has also been adopted.
Urgent measures must be taken to put an end to the neglect of the North-South rail link and to redress the imbalance caused by the decision to rely entirely on cars, buses and lorries.
We also welcome the fact that the rapporteur has not repeated the call he made in his previous report on Montenegro for the country's rapid accession to NATO.
Accession to NATO must not be imposed as a condition of future access to membership of the EU.
It is also a good thing that this report does not repeat the demand that Montenegro pursue the sort of neo-liberal economic policy which would go even further than we already have within the European Union.
Montenegro has the opportunity to become a Member State of the EU.
That is important, not only for Montenegro but also for the other states of the former Yugoslavia which likewise aspire to accession.
