Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is looking very carefully at the worsening security situation in eastern Chad and is emphatic in its support for the deployment of EUFOR troops in full strength to protect refugees and displaced persons in the region.
The European Union will use every instrument at its disposal in eastern Chad to do this.
The Commission will provide not only EUFOR troops, but also more than EUR 50 million as part of a comprehensive plan.
With these funds, measures will be financed in the following three key areas, which extend from emergency aid to long-term development aid.
The first sector concerns humanitarian aid, for which ECHO has already provided EUR 30.5 million in 2007 in the form of emergency aid measures for supporting refugees and displaced persons in different sectors in Chad.
A similar level of funding has also been set aside to continue these measures in 2008.
The second sector comprises the organisation of a Chadian police force, which will be responsible for carrying out humanitarian protection measures.
In the context of the EU and UN missions in Chad, the United Nations are setting up, training and equipping up to 850 Chadian police forces and constabularies, which are to be deployed in refugee camps in eastern Chad.
The European Union is supporting this UN programme with EUR 10 million from the Instrument for Stability.
The third sector concerns reintegration and rehabilitation.
In 2008 the Commission will be providing EUR 10.1 million from the ninth European Development Fund for development measures promoting reconstruction, conflict resolution and the organisation of administrative capacities.
These are measures that are necessary for improving the security situation in the areas of the UN-EU mission.
Further measures are planned as part of the 10th European Development Fund, for which EUR 311 million are estimated from 2008 to 2013.
Returning displaced persons to their home country should be supported in the short term with these measures.
Their aim in the long-term is to stabilise the situation permanently in Chad and throughout the region.
The previous speakers have rightly referred to the flare-up in the battles between government-friendly rebels and President Idriss Déby's troops in eastern Chad, which has clearly made humanitarian aid more difficult.
Even in the areas around the refugee camps, safety can no longer be guaranteed.
In addition, the precarious humanitarian situation is coming increasingly to a head owing to the rapid increase in the number of refugees from the combat zones.
In this deeply worrying situation, the restoration of security in the region is a task of the utmost urgency.
In order to cope with this task, a military presence is vital.
EUFOR troops should therefore be deployed specifically in these crisis areas.
They will, however, be successful only if the causes of the conflict are eliminated and if a political process is introduced at the same time, with the aim of calming the underlying tensions and reducing poverty by facilitating economic development.
