rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a pre-negotiated common position of Parliament and the Council on the revision of the Directive concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities.
We can view this as a great success for Parliament, the Council and the Commission, so I would like to start by expressing my warmest thanks to my parliamentary colleagues from all political groups and from all the committees involved, especially the shadow rapporteurs from the Committee on Culture and Education, Henri Weber, Ignasi Guardans Cambó and Helga Trüpel.
They have done much to make it possible for us to present a success, a joint result, today.
My thanks also go to Commissioner Reding - Commissioner of the Year 2007, congratulations! - who tabled the proposal for the revision of the Directive with great resolution and willingness to cooperate, in equal measure, and worked on it with us.
I would also like to thank the Council, specifically the German Presidency, under whose leadership it proved possible to achieve the common position, and the current Portuguese Presidency, which stalwartly defended the common position achieved, thereby enabling us to debate it today and vote on it tomorrow.
'Television without frontiers' is crucial for freedom of information and pluralism of the media in Europe.
We therefore greatly welcome the fact that we have been able to update this Directive just in time.
On the basis of the country of origin principle, we have achieved joint objectives for traditional and new forms of television, regardless of platform.
For traditional TV, this mainly encompasses the right to short-term reporting Europe-wide, safeguards on better access for the disabled, better controls on advertising aimed at children, and independent national media supervision.
However, we have also improved the financial bases for commercial broadcasting, not by increasing advertising - that still stands at a maximum of 12 minutes per hour - but by introducing more flexible rules.
We have taken the difficult step of allowing product placement so that private TV broadcasters, in competition with Google and other rivals, will be able to offer free-to-air TV services in future.
It was the European Parliament which worked to achieve adequate transparency directives here.
For modern TV on the Internet, the principle which will apply after tomorrow's decision and its ensuing implementation at national level is that TV will remain an economic and cultural product regardless of the technology used.
That is the European model which we have safeguarded with this Directive for audiovisual media services, as it will be known in future.
TV on the internet and mobile TV should also have a future in Europe, not only as an economic product but also as a core guarantee of freedom of information and media pluralism.
That is why it is so important to have initiated this modernised Directive just in time.
'Just in time' means that the forthcoming negotiations on the telecoms package, which have now begun, as well as the deliberations on online content can take place against the backdrop of this clarified legal framework for traditional and new audiovisual media services.
That is why I would ask you for your support in tomorrow's vote so that we secure a broad majority in favour of progress in our European media policy.
