on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to start by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Liese, for his fair and constructive cooperation over the last few months.
The inclusion of aviation in emissions trading is the first legislative procedure after the Spring Summit, at which the Heads of State or Government set some ambitious goals.
We in the European Parliament have also put the topic right at the top of our political agenda by setting up the Temporary Committee on Climate Change.
Experts and climate researchers have reminded us in hearings in the Committee on Climate Change that we must reverse the trend in CO2 emissions in the next 8 to 10 years.
After that, emissions must not increase any further; instead, greenhouse gas emissions must be reduced so that global warming can be kept to less than two degrees.
The starting date of 1 January 2010 that was voted on in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has central significance.
We need to have 2010 as the starting date because there is no time to waste in combating climate change and the 'braking distance' in climate change matters is very long and increases with the passing of time.
As far as the Commission draft is concerned, that is, the distinction between flights within Europe and intercontinental flights, I must say that I am very glad - Mr Jarzembowski mentioned this - that we in Parliament are agreed that we want one single starting date.
As well as the time-related components, the upper limit for the emissions allowances to be issued is very significant.
Here we need to proceed realistically and be ambitious.
Capping emissions from aviation at 80% of the 2004-2006 figure is a good and fair approach.
This capping is necessary so that the 87% increase from aviation between 1990 and 2004 does not undermine the reduction in other industrial sectors.
To ensure that allowances fetch an appropriate price so that the emissions trading scheme can be effective, the proportion of allowances to be auctioned off must be much higher than the Commission has proposed.
Therefore, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament suggests increasing the proportion of emissions allowances to be auctioned to 25%.
As far as revenues from auctioning off the allowances are concerned, the Member States should use these for measures to adjust to climate change and for the fight against climate change, both within and outside the European Union.
Another important matter: all aircraft upwards of a take-off weight of 5.7 tonnes must be included in the emissions trading scheme.
Tomorrow we shall vote on an amendment that provides for only aircraft with a maximum take-off weight of more than 20 tonnes to be included.
Our aim must not be to leave business jets out of the emissions trading scheme while fully including aircraft carrying holidaymakers.
I should like to think that tomorrow we shall be bold in moving towards more climate protection, and I hope that tomorrow we shall set it in motion.
