Madam President, sum up globalisation in two minutes - well, here goes!
My first request is that we deal a little more honestly with the subject of globalisation in our discussions.
My native region of Bavaria earns half of its GDP from exports.
Many people are critical of globalisation, but if we asked them whether they agreed that their local companies should not be allowed to serve the world market any more, they would say 'no'.
Likewise, if we turned to the public galleries and asked whether anyone was prepared to give up the opportunity to buy competitively priced goods - be they electrical appliances, textiles or other products - there would be no volunteers.
Everyone knows that imports from low-cost countries are the reason for the low inflation rates of recent years.
It is only right and proper to acknowledge that, even if we regularly speak of globalisation as a threat.
Europe must shape the globalisation process, for it has been benefiting our manufacturers as well as our consumers.
That is the purpose, for instance, of eliminating red tape, which is an important objective both for Commissioner Verheugen and for Europe.
I do not wish to imply that this is a task for the Commission alone; I am also referring to Parliament and the Council.
We are speaking about globalisation now, but afterwards we shall be adopting the Soil Protection Directive and creating more red tape.
In short, our actions need to be rigorously consistent in Europe, and it is our mission to shape Europe.
When we consider the subprime mortgage crisis in the United States, we need to realise that international financial markets are intertwined and that we Europeans must help to make things happen.
How do we deal with rating agencies, and how do we deal with hedge funds?
Regrettably, Commissioner McCreevy, who is responsible for these matters, has not yet taken the lead in the movement to rein in the Americans and other markets, and so Europe is lagging behind.
Nevertheless, I firmly believe that Europe is well prepared for globalisation.
We are benefiting from it, which we must explain to the public, and we must press for minimum standards, although these would not be European standards, and then we shall be prepared and fit to win the globalisation game.
Whether or not globalisation takes place is not determined in Brussels or Strasbourg.
