on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as you have already pointed out, Commissioner, statistics are vitally important to both the European Union and the Member States in many policy areas.
If wrong decisions and unwelcome developments are to be avoided, statistics must be meaningful, reliable, open to only one interpretation and therefore comparable too.
That, unfortunately, has not always been the case.
I therefore welcome the establishment of the European Statistical Advisory Committee and the European Statistical Governance Advisory Board.
The amendments tabled by the European Parliament will, I hope, endow both bodies with the authority they will need.
Let me emphasise first of all that the Statistical Advisory Committee will be independent and that all stakeholder groups will be represented on it.
The Committee will have far fewer members than its predecessor, the European Advisory Committee on Statistical Information in the Economic and Social Spheres (CEIES), and the reduction from 79 to 24 members will make it considerably more efficient.
I welcome the fact that the European Data Protection Supervisor is to be a voting member of the Advisory Committee, whereas the Director-General of Eurostat has only been granted non-voting membership.
This underlines the Committee's independence.
Secondly, the Statistical Governance Advisory Board is a useful complement to the Advisory Committee.
The Board will monitor and, I hope, actively encourage the application of the Code of Conduct in all European statistical matters.
One can only hope that, with the aid of these two bodies, the needs of users will have a greater impact on the statistical work programme and that the Code of Conduct will strike such firm roots that deliberately or mistakenly delivered misinformation or inaccurate data will become a thing of the past.
Let me conclude by thanking both rapporteurs for their work and for their willingness to discuss contentious points frankly and constructively.
