on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, I should like to address three aspects.
First of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Martin, on behalf of my group.
The report has been written with great care and it actually alludes to all the points that are important and have to be debated.
It also advises on the appropriate caution to be exercised on certain subjects, e.g. in the automotive sector.
In this respect I believe it is an excellent report, which is a good prerequisite and should accordingly be considered by the Commission and the Council.
I am pleased to hear that the Commissioner has responded so meticulously to it.
Secondly, I should like to ask the Commissioner: how will negotiations with Korea generally proceed, in your view?
Negotiations are indeed underway and are at a very difficult stage.
It seemed very much better at the beginning, I believe, than we have thought in the meantime.
Parallel negotiations with all the ASEAN nations are also being added, of course.
These negotiations are also - as far as I have gathered from the Minutes - at a very difficult stage.
What is the Commission's assessment of this?
What influence will our ongoing negotiations with ASEAN have on negotiations with Korea?
My last question to the Commissioner relates to the fact that the Heads of State or Government are just about to sign the Reform Treaty today, 13 December.
Under this Reform Treaty, Parliament will in future have a great deal more influence in the retail sector, for which we in this Parliament have been fighting for a very long time.
I should like to thank the Commission and Commissioner Mandelson in particular for always having backed this.
My question, however, is this: can you imagine that the Commission will support us when we ask the Council for the right that has already been brought forward under the upcoming free trade agreement and that Parliament will therefore keep the relevant endorsement obligation?
Can we assume that we have you on our side in this, Commissioner?
