on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the report provides clarification for which I would like to express my sincere thanks to both rapporteurs, Messrs Lamassoure and Severin.
It makes clear that we are constantly exceeding the stipulated upper and lower limits.
I would like to express my thanks specifically for this.
This clarification is important for us all.
Secondly, there are two outcomes to this report.
Firstly, the less degressive the scale we have, that is, the more we gear ourselves to proportionality, the more genuine authority and legitimacy Parliament has.
The conflict as to how much degressivity we need - how much less, how much more - must be continually managed and it is logical here, I believe, for us to say the less the degressivity, the greater the legitimacy.
As a German, I would also add that it is somewhat problematic, of course, that we as Germans are the only ones getting less than we did on the basis of Nice.
We would like a little bit more support here because the discussion in the German press is very explicit in this regard.
We shall accept this because we too believe that the European aspect is more important than all the others.
Finally, two findings which we ought to utilise for the future.
Firstly, we really ought to be working towards obtaining a logical system in the long-term, which we do not have to be constantly renegotiating.
Secondly, there are two controversial amendments, 2 and 3.
Our Group has decided that irrespective of how the vote goes on the two controversial subjects, in the end the Group will vote in favour of the Lamassoure/Severin Report.
The Council has no excuse.
In Amendment 2, which differs only minimally from the figures in the Lamassoure Report, the outcome would be that the Council is given a message from Parliament for the period 2009-2014.
Hence our Parliament and all the Groups have on balance, as I believe, fulfilled their duties and the Council can decide, if it is willing.
Many thanks for a fair discussion on such a difficult subject!
