Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation is not a natural process, even though some may like to present it that way.
Globalisation is itself the fruit of politics.
It is a political creation, born of every measure taken to deregulate and liberalise the international movement of capital.
Its political creation continues every time a developing country is blackmailed into opening its capital market and permitting foreign takeovers.
It is a creation of the industrialised nations and not least of the European Union.
What the term 'globalisation' actually stands for is not nearly so much the internationalisation of the economy as the power of property owners, banks and conglomerates, which are now beyond the reach of national legislators, to put their money wherever it yields the highest returns, regardless of the social consequences.
That power, of course, also enables them to play off countries against one another as potential business locations and thereby compel them to create conditions that are increasingly conducive to profit maximisation.
This is precisely the hidden agenda that lurks beneath the aim of competitiveness, namely the drive to slash corporate taxation, destroy welfare systems and engage in brutal wage dumping - in other words, the quest for increasingly unbridled capitalism.
This means, of course, that not everyone is a loser in the globalisation game; it also produces some very bloated winners.
Not least among these are the European conglomerates which have developed into global players in the course of this globalisation process and whose profit trends in recent years could scarcely have been bettered.
The vast majority, however, are not benefiting from this development.
On the contrary, the law of the jungle that prevails in unbridled capitalism enables the 'haves' to oppress and exploit the 'have-nots'.
The resolution on the table whitewashes this state of affairs, and our group will not support it.
Instead, we shall continue to fight for a different economic order in Europe, for an economic order in which people are not mere cost factors and countries are more than just business locations.
