Mr President, in the speech made by our esteemed colleague Mr Kacin, there were two things missing, in my view.
The first was the expression of thanks to the generous President, and the second, more importantly, was the balance which is certainly expressed in his report.
We worked well together and I would like to thank him very much for that.
I think that this has developed into a very good draft report.
In saying that, I echo what Commissioner Rehn said.
Some substantial progress has been made, but when assessing a country, both the positives and the negatives should be mentioned.
Substantial progress has also been made in terms of cooperation with the ICTY.
However - and here we are in accord - this progress is not enough.
I hope that an agreement will be reached with Carla del Ponte in the next few days, and I made it clear on behalf of my Group when I spoke to Minister Ljajić that all the issues have to be resolved.
We cannot stop halfway and we cannot stop three-quarters of the way either.
Full cooperation has to be established.
That is the common position of Parliament and the European Union as a whole.
As I see it, the crucial issue in this country is that unfortunately - and here I would echo what Doris Pack has said - the nationalists often still seem to be setting the agenda.
You cannot overtake extremist right-wing nationalists even further to the right, which is what some people are trying to do.
This simply leads to chaos.
The fact that Mr Nikolić held office as the Speaker of Parliament, even if it was only for four days, is scandalous.
Given the difficulties and sensitivities of the situation, how can anyone think of having the leader of the extreme right as the Speaker of Parliament?
It is scandalous.
This is not the way to conduct politics and take Serbia forward.
That is something which repeatedly confirms that Serbia is actually pursuing a nationalist course.
I hope that all the forces of the centre will reflect for a moment and realise that there has to be a clear dividing line between the nationalists on the one hand and the rest, whether they are now Conservative or Socialist, on the other.
The centre is the only force which can take the country forward, provided that they are not tempted to dally with the nationalists.
Yes, we need to do more about visa-free travel.
A step towards visa facilitation has been taken, and now we should be moving towards visa-free travel so that young people can come to Europe and see what it is all about.
That is what young Serbs need, and that is what Serbia needs as well.
