on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I emphatically agree with Mrs Kauppi.
The disagreements between the groups here in the European Parliament on the subject of taxation policy are becoming clearer and clearer.
We must give this debate much more serious attention over the next few months.
I should like to thank the rapporteur and shadow rapporteur for the significant effort they have made in order to bring this report to a good conclusion.
A good conclusion - but not for us.
As a Group we shall not be able to accept this report in its final form.
It has some pleasant aspects, for example it describes and demands the important step towards a consolidated tax base for corporate taxes.
This is an important first step.
However, this must be accompanied by similarly clear declarations as regards harmonising minimum tax rates, because otherwise it will lead to unchecked tax competition, specifically in this area.
We also see problems under Article 17, where the committee has unfortunately clearly stated that it is against minimum tax rates for excise duty.
This, too, is unfortunately in line with the votes of recent weeks and we greatly regret this.
We support the group here.
We believe that we have to achieve harmonisation in European excise duty and that this harmonisation must be strengthened, if anything, because otherwise we will have unchecked tax competition in excise duty.
We also think it is a problem that far too little is being said on the subjects of climate change and eco-taxes.
I, too, wish to disagree with the rapporteur here.
I believe that eco-taxes are an important instrument for meeting these challenges of climate change.
We have to do much more in this respect.
I do, however, think that the approach of focussing on nuclear energy here, or on 'clean' forms of energy, is wrong.
It is important that we focus clearly on energy saving and energy efficiency.
These are the important answers.
When we look at the challenges facing us in the refurbishment of buildings and in the field of transport, it seems that we can genuinely meet the Kyoto aim of energy saving if a great deal more is done here.
Tax policy can make an important contribution to achieving greater energy savings and, greater energy efficiency and to genuinely meeting the challenges of climate change.
Unfortunately, this report does not reflect this position.
As I have already announced, we shall therefore not be voting in favour of this report.
