Mr President, where is the added value?
Where is the justification for European regulations on soil protection?
The Commission's arguments concerning cross-border effects are rather artificial - at least from the ecological point of view.
Nor can I accept the argument that the internal market is distorted by different national soil protection legislation.
If the Commission really meant that, it would not present us with a framework directive, which accords the Member States the greatest possible self-determination in the definition of goals for soil protection.
That would increase the differences in soil protection legislation more than it would even them out.
Does not this approach reveal that the Commission is unsure as to how it should proceed in terms of subsidiarity when it comes to legislation for soil in specific locations?
In such a case, where we all wish for better soil protection, but national legislation differs, should we not first use the instrument of open coordination?
I believe so.
The Framework Directive takes the second step before the first.
We are missing out on the opportunity for countries without legislation to learn from countries with excellent soil-protection practices.
We shall also experience bureaucracy, particularly in those countries that already have tough legislation.
Why should they have to examine their entire country and define risk areas, even though they already have exemplary legislation?
We do not need this bureaucracy, nor do we need the gilt-edged soil-protection system that Europe is now demanding from us.
In closing, a comment on the argument that Parliament itself asked for this Directive years ago.
Yes, that was the case five years and more ago.
However, in the meantime we have had experience of the Habitats Directive, the Directive on integrated pollution prevention and control, the Water Framework Directive and many more.
As well, unlike the Commissioners, we are held accountable locally.
Therefore we do not hold fast to five-year and ten-year plans when businesses and local authorities on the ground are telling us that it is too much of a good thing.
I acknowledge the efforts of the rapporteur to make the Directive less stringent, but bureaucracy is best avoided at source.
We still have the opportunity to do that by rejecting the Directive.
I hope that we give the Council a strong signal that it cannot expect its nations to accept this wave of bureaucracy.
