Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said here on the substance of the Treaty.
We German Liberals have always attached vital importance to certain key points.
Firstly, the institutional compromise had to be preserved.
Secondly, we wanted an EU foreign minister, not as an embellishment but as a genuine mouthpiece of the European Union.
We agree entirely with what Jacek Saryusz-Wolski said a few moments ago about institutional improvements.
We still believe, however, that the Common Foreign and Security Policy will continue for the foreseeable future to stand or fall by the political will of the Member States, and that is regrettable.
The third point to which we attached particular importance was firm protection of fundamental rights, and for this reason we look forward eagerly to the proclamation of the Charter.
On the whole, it must be said that the Treaty of Lisbon is a success for German-Portuguese cooperation, for which both Presidencies deserve to be congratulated.
A real fly in the ointment, however, is the lack of progress in bringing decision-making processes closer to the people.
The Council's decision not to present a consolidated text is what we would call Realsatire in German, meaning a real-life situation which is more absurd than anything a satirist could dream up.
This decision will soon be overtaken by events, however.
I am sure that the public and the parliaments will obtain copies of the consolidated text for themselves and read up on what the Treaty is really all about.
We must now enter a phase in which the European Union reverts from institutional navel-gazing to the adoption of a global outlook.
We must discharge our international economic responsibility.
The general state of the world economy raises the spectre of slower growth and job losses in Europe.
In many Member States, including my own, I am aware of a reversion to complacency and a weakening of the will to enact reforms.
That has to change.
My second point is that we must play our role in international politics responsibly.
People want the European Union to have a strong global role.
The responsibility is ours.
