Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I myself represent Lower Bavaria, which borders on the Czech Republic, here in the European Parliament.
When I was even younger than I am today, this area really was the end of the world.
Looking at the gallery, I see so many young people in the audience, and I think we can remind ourselves that it is an historic day when these borders finally fall and we are united in Europe.
For that reason, yes, it is a cause for celebration!
As a political representative, may I say in all honesty that many people were not convinced that this would work as well as it has, or that our East European friends, one for all, would implement SIS in this way.
May I express my congratulations and respect for that achievement.
I would also like to thank Carlos Coelho.
The fact that the European Parliament is playing such a major role when it comes to Schengen is due to our rapporteur.
I would like to emphasise that point as well.
However, politicians always have to think of tomorrow and what will be facing us then.
Here, I would like to remind everyone of what the Executive Director of Frontex, Ilkka Laitinen, said at the last meeting of the Justice and Home Affairs (JHA) Council: he said that migration flows are already demonstrably changing, away from the southern border across the Mediterranean and towards the eastern border.
That is something we need to prepare for today.
We must also work through the problems identified in the evaluation reports.
That is why the evaluation clause proposed by Parliament is so important.
We need SIS II and may I appeal to the Vice-President of the Commission not to cease applying pressure here, for it is important that Member States resist any temptation to sit back and say, that is it, we have done it.
We need the same level of commitment from them when it comes to the implementation of SIS II as well.
Once we have open borders for citizens, we will also have open borders for criminals, and when we have open borders for criminals, we need open borders for our police as well.
For that reason, there must be no slackening of commitment now when it comes to the Prüm Treaty; we need closer cooperation here too.
As my fifth point, may I say that there is a need for a strengthening of Frontex.
I would like to see Frontex taking on responsibility for the evaluation of standards at the external borders in future.
We will be celebrating in December, and I hope that what will come afterwards will not be a hangover but the positive memory of the celebration itself and the reasons for it.
