draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Transport and Tourism. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we in the committees are unanimously of the opinion that the starting date for European airlines and airlines from other countries that fly into our region must be the same, for we must consider the competitiveness of our airlines.
Nevertheless, at the ICAO Conference we saw that the other countries opposed this.
In this respect, there is no point in having a double deadline.
In the Committee on Transport and Tourism, however, we believe that the deadline should be 2012.
Commissioner, you quite rightly pointed out that aviation was excluded according under the Kyoto Protocol.
In this respect, 2012 is the correct year, because this allows the best chance of convincing third countries to participate after all.
It provides enough time for them to join our system or to set up an equivalent system.
We cannot accept your leading role and that of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, which goes even further and wants to see 2010, because this completely overlooks the global dimension of aviation, the nature of the competition between airlines.
We cannot disadvantage our airports, our airlines and employees in this area.
Therefore, the best acceptable time would be 2011, but the date must apply to all airlines.
Furthermore, we must strike a balance.
We want to reduce the effects on the climate of aviation, but we must also keep in mind the competitiveness of our airlines, and consider the airports and passengers - especially those from remote areas - and keep prices affordable for them.
We therefore advocate achieving a reference period soon, and having a sensible percentage for the allocation of allowances - the Committee on Transport was in favour of 110, but just under 100 would also be feasible - and a sensible percentage for the auction.
There is one thing we must not do: we must not make it too expensive for our passengers in Europe from more remote areas to travel by air - so, please, let us have a gentle introduction to emissions trading.
