draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, many of you will have flown here to Brussels via my home airport, Frankfurt am Main.
Rapid handling is a key factor in the quality of ground services, which are responsible for loading and unloading, cleaning and refuelling of aircraft, and easing passengers through the system.
However, these work processes must fit together seamlessly.
In order for good professional standards to be maintained at all Europe's airports, the European Parliament adopted a decision back in 1996 to the effect that besides the airport operators, only those service providers which could operate efficiently on a lasting basis would be licensed to work in airports.
However, the number of these service providers is limited.
Then, as now, I was the draftsman for the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and was able to prevent unlimited liberalisation of these services.
While fully appreciating the need for competition, this can only be accepted if it is fair and is not to the detriment of the workers or security.
Not every supplier can guarantee the requisite high level of training, appropriate wage levels or good service.
Tough competition on prices means that more and more permanent jobs are being replaced by poor-quality temporary and agency contracts.
I would like to express my thanks to Anne Jensen.
My Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and your Committee on Transport and Tourism have joined forces and called on the Commission to ensure that, first and foremost, the 1996 Directive is implemented properly in all EU Member States.
The data we have been given are out of date.
They only report on experience in 15 Member States.
We want a careful analysis of the advantages and disadvantages of liberalisation, both for workers and for passengers.
Ground handling services make a key contribution to aviation safety and security.
Sensitive infrastructures like the European hub in Frankfurt am Main and elsewhere are completely unsuitable as a playground for those individuals who compulsively champion the cause of harmonisation in Europe.
