on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, first of all, may I express my sincere congratulations and thanks to Mr Jo Leinen, the rapporteur, for doing a very good job.
This report is one which my Group can fully support and we also endorse the amendments.
The report turns political parties at European level, and the new instrument of political foundations, into effective tools to increase participation by Europe's citizens and boost Europe's democratic legitimacy.
The referenda in France and the Netherlands showed that it is important to rebuild the trust of citizens, including via the political parties and the foundations.
It is also true that the financial rules need to be adapted to the rapidly changing needs of the political parties.
Transparency, of course, must be safeguarded as well.
That is why the European Parliament will be providing information on the funding disbursed to parties and foundations every financial year, and this will be available on our website.
Another good innovation is that the role of political parties in the context of the European elections is finally recognised.
Only if Europe's parties can be actively involved in elections to the European Parliament will they become genuine players of the European polis and contribute to the formation of a European consciousness, thereby helping to overcome the democratic deficit which exists.
Another important component is the promotion of political foundations.
Their work in the field of political information and education complements what the political parties do.
These foundations have a special role to play in deepening the educational process and enhancing knowledge about the European Union, thus reducing the distance between citizens and the European Union.
I am convinced that foundations can boost the active participation of citizens in European political life, and they can also play an important role in the training of tomorrow's politicians.
The legalistic thinking of the Council is rather hard to fathom, but as Helmut Kohl always said, the most important thing is the outcome.
That is why I am in favour of this report, and I would like to thank everyone concerned for their commitment and cooperation.
