on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, at the EU summit in Thessaloniki in June 2003, the Heads of State or Government reaffirmed their support for the development of a European perspective in the Western Balkans, where Montenegro is the newest successor state of the former Yugoslavia, having declared its independence from Serbia in 2006.
Since then, its relations with the European Union have become ever closer, and Montenegro has clearly chosen to steer a European course.
I particularly welcome the conclusion of the Stabilisation and Association Agreement on 18 October, which marks a milestone in relations between Montenegro and the EU.
It brings numerous benefits to that small Balkan country, particularly in business and trade, for it provides for a free-trade area as well as facilitating investment and business cooperation.
On 19 October 2007 little more than a year after the declaration of independence, another important aim was achieved when the Montenegrin Parliament adopted the country's first Constitution, which will play a particularly important role in forging the identity of this young nation.
It establishes Montenegro as a democratic, liberal and environmental state based on the rule of law.
That is a great success.
Montenegro still has a long way to go to attain membership of the EU, but remaining obstacles are being dismantled bit by bit.
There is still a particular need for progress in the struggle against the informal economy and corruption.
The functioning of a free and independent judicial system, cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and, above all, reform processes in the spheres of democratisation, human rights and the protection of minorities are indispensable for Montenegro and its future in the EU.
The initial priority must be the successful implementation of the reforms prescribed by the Stabilisation and Association Agreement.
On 1 January 2008 Slovenia, another of Yugoslavia's successor states, will take over the Presidency of the EU Council.
It is gratifying that one of the priorities of the Slovenian presidency will be the Western Balkans.
The security and stability of the Western Balkans are a paramount interest of the region itself and of the whole of Europe.
A democratic and stable Montenegro can and should play a major role in the pursuit of these goals.
Let me close by emphasising that the prospect of Montenegro acceding to the EU one day, albeit in the more distant future, is the main generator of further reform processes.
We in the European Parliament should support Montenegro on its way towards the EU.
