Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is extremely grateful for the opportunity to be able to say something today about the situation regarding women's rights in Saudi Arabia.
The case underlying your resolution gives us cause for the greatest concern.
A young woman was sentenced to 200 lashes and six months' imprisonment after being gang-raped by seven men.
The EU dealt with this matter immediately.
The EU Troika made representation to the Saudi Arabian Government in Riadh and expressed the EU's dismay at the verdict of the court in El Katif.
The verdict is not only clearly in breach of Saudi Arabia's international obligations, particularly against the UN Convention against Torture and other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, but also turns the principle of guilt upside down by declaring the victim to be guilty.
This case brings under the spotlight a country in which discrimination against women is unfortunately part of everyday life.
The European Parliament has justifiably asked the Saudi Arabian Government on several occasions to remove the limitations on women's free movement, including the driving prohibition.
This request also applies to the restrictions on women's access to employment, on their legal personality and on their representation in judicial processes.
I unreservedly share Parliament's concerns about the situation of women in Saudi Arabia.
At the same time Saudi Arabia is bound as a member of the UN Human Rights Council to protect and promote human rights.
Saudi Arabia is a contracting party to the UN Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women.
Admittedly it has ratified the Convention with one reservation: in the event of a conflict between the clauses of the Convention and the standards of Islamic law, the Kingdom is not obliged thereafter to comply with any clauses of the Convention conflicting with this law.
The European Union has repeatedly called on Saudi Arabia to lift its reservations on this UN Convention - particularly with regard to granting equal rights for women and men in relation to the nationality of their children - and will continue to do so.
Human rights issues such as the situation of women are regularly the subject of representations by the European Union to Saudi Arabia.
The European Union is reminding Saudi Arabia of its obligations according to international human rights standards, is broaching the issue of the need to treat women and men equally and to combat violence against women and is asking Saudi Arabia to protect and promote women's rights.
Two recent changes that we have observed could - I say this very cautiously - could perhaps be a sign that Saudi Arabia is, making some progress.
The Saudi Arabian National Society for Human Rights produced its first report on the human rights situation in Saudi Arabia in May of this year.
Violations of the rights of women, prisoners and workers are published in this report, as are court judgments.
The results and recommendations of this report should be acted on and followed up without fail by the Saudi Arabian Government
Furthermore, in October King Abdullah announced a fundamental judicial reform, reinforcing the independence of judges and simplifying fact-finding according to Sharia law supervised by the Supreme Court.
For a country like Saudi Arabia, these are encouraging steps.
We should therefore not only be drawing attention to human rights violations in Saudi Arabia where necessary, but also be welcoming and supporting the reforms that have recently been discreetly emerging.
