Mr President, President and members of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we wish to convey our sincere appreciation to the Court of Auditors for a better-compiled report, and we ask you to keep pursuing this path.
We have not yet reached the bounds of the possible, for the more comprehensible your reports are, the more they help us and the more they help the Commission to act on all your findings.
So please continue along these lines.
We are very satisfied with what we have received so far.
We also congratulate the Commission.
What has been achieved in the realm of agriculture is truly a milestone, and it shows that years of hard work do actually yield improvements.
Now we come to the structural funds.
The fact is that we have to get things right in this area too and at least come close to the standard achieved in agriculture.
We are prepared to engage in the necessary discussions.
We are not seeking the impossible.
That is why we speak of a tolerable risk.
We are aware of the Commission's problems, but we are also aware that the only way for us to progress is by supporting the Commission.
You therefore have the support of this Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control, Commissioner Kallas, for the structural-fund guidelines.
We warmly encourage you to make tangible progress in this matter.
We must move forward.
Sadly, we have no one from the Council to address.
We shall, however, take the Council to task on the next best occasion.
We cannot go on like this.
We cannot meet here next year and draw the same conclusions.
We have been making ourselves a laughing stock for long enough.
Lastly, a few words on the parliamentary budget: what the Members of Parliament expect of others, they naturally demand of themselves too.
I wish to thank the Court of Auditors for enabling us to carry forward the parliamentary budget for 2006 as far as the Members' assistance allowance is concerned.
In the meantime, the problem of supporting documents for the assistance allowance that was noted in 2006 has been regulated and resolved for all but six Members.
That is a message, President Pöttering, that we must also convey to European taxpayers.
We have an interest in resolving the old cases and shall do so together with the parliamentary administration.
We shall find a solution, and the solution will be no different from what we expect of others.
