Madam President, many of my fellow Members believe we need strict rules for dealing with plant protection agents, and they are right, but at the same time we must not ignore the impact of the legislation we adopt.
The fact is that plant protection products are an important element of modern-day agriculture.
Take the example of the regulation on authorisation.
We are in the process of banning entire clusters of active substances on the basis of exclusion criteria, simply because of an abstract notion of hazardousness.
This approach ignores the actual risk involved in applying these agents down on the farm.
It leads us to ban active substances which do not pose any problem at all in practice.
As a result, not enough active substances will be available in future to combat pests properly.
If only a few active substances are used, resistance to pesticides will develop more quickly.
There will be no reliable means left to deal with many pest problems.
And these are probably the new heights to which Mrs Breyer just referred.
When that stage is reached, the security of Europe's food supply will plumb new depths.
Instead of imposing blanket bans we should be providing for a reliable licensing procedure that examines the actual risk involved in the use of each substance.
The next example relates to the strategic approach to this issue, in which we argue for an across-the-board Europe-wide reduction target for the use of plant protection products.
That, however, has nothing at all to do with the risks involved in their use.
The Commission had set targets for reducing the actual risk.
That is a good idea, and we should retain it.
When all is said and done, we should focus on what is feasible, namely efficient pest control coupled with proper risk management.
After all, it is also a matter of establishing how the growing need for raw vegetable materials is to be met in future.
In the past innovative plant protection products have helped to make production grow faster than demand for arable land.
Our aim for the future should not be to reverse this situation.
