Mr President, let me begin with my warmest thanks to the two rapporteurs, Mr Itälä and Mr Virrankoski, who have done a very good job over the past few months and have produced extremely sound reports.
I extend these thanks to the coordinators and staff of the political groups and also wish to express my sincere gratitude to the committee secretariat.
Let me pick out the names of Anne Vitrey, Ian Vollbracht and Marie-Cécile Bernard as a way of thanking the entire team, who have worked extremely hard for all of us.
I must also say that we could not have arrived at this final cumulative outcome on which we shall be voting on Thursday without the great solidarity shown by the European Parliament.
Commissioner, with your knack of seizing the right moment, as you did once again at these negotiations, you made an absolutely vital contribution to their successful outcome, for which I warmly thank you.
As someone who has experienced a good few budgetary coordination processes, I wish to pay glowing tribute to the Portuguese Presidency for the way it conducted the Council's negotiations in this difficult situation.
It wrote a new chapter in the history of the EU institutions in securing the final vote and consent of the Council, an achievement which we deeply and keenly appreciate.
All in all, then, we have a budget for year two of the financial perspective period with a volume of EUR 120.3 billion, corresponding to 0.96% of the Member States' aggregate gross national income, a budget that is very heavily geared to fiscal discipline.
We have a budget that safeguards the programmes which create added European value, such as the ones we have just adopted here.
We have a budget that safeguards the foundations of the strategic Galileo project until 2013 in the first instance, and the secret lay in a mix of revision, flexibility and reallocation.
We have a budget that provides extra resources for Frontex, thereby permitting essential responses to pressing challenges, and we have a budget that funds the common foreign and security policy, albeit only for 2008, and makes it possible to draw on the flexibility instrument for CFSP purposes.
Let me say here that we should have preferred a long-term, multiannual approach that would have shored up the chronically underfunded heading 4, 'the EU as a global partner'.
That, however, is a subject to which the CFSP, Palestine and Kosovo will surely compel us to return in connection with Mrs Haug's forthcoming report on the priorities for the following budget.
I commend to the House the present budget in its agreed form.
