on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Mr Vice-President, colleagues, ladies and gentlemen, with these three reports, the convergence of the European rail network will take a massive step forward.
Safety standards will be harmonised and monitored in future by the European Railway Agency.
Mutual recognition of railway vehicles within the EU Member States, which is long overdue, will be ensured.
That being the case, I would like to express my warm thanks to the two rapporteurs and the shadow rapporteurs, for without this good cooperation, we would not have achieved this result.
The difficult times are finally over.
In order to be able to operate a locomotive which was licensed in another Member State, it often took three years and could cost up to EUR 10 million.
This was provocative and to the detriment of environmentally friendly rail transport long before the EU had 27 Members.
In future, the authorisation of a railway vehicle will apply in all 27 Member States of the EU unless, within three months, a Member State raises an objection and justifies why the operation of the vehicle is not possible on safety grounds.
Its operation cannot be prevented for trivial reasons such as the colour of a fire extinguisher or the size of the wing mirror.
The burden of proof will thus be reversed.
In the past, manufacturers had to carry out a great deal of painstaking work to demonstrate that there were no grounds for concern, but in future, a good case must be presented for any safety concerns, and it is the European Railway Agency - whose powers will be enlarged - which will decide whether these concerns are justified.
If the three-month deadline passes without any objections, the authorisation applies to the EU's entire rail network.
This means that railway vehicles can be manufactured in greater numbers and at lower cost.
Germany's Federal Railway Administration, in particular, resisted the curtailment of its powers to the very end.
It is thanks to the persistence of all the groups in this House that a viable compromise has been reached and that Josu Ortuondo Larrea's report can now be adopted by consensus at first reading by the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
