on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, the European Qualifications Framework is the starting signal for the emancipation of vocational training at EU level, as it will enable vocational qualifications to be recognised throughout Europe, just as academic qualifications are.
This takes time and requires a willingness to cooperate, coordinate and change mindsets.
People who defend only what they know, and shy away from new experiences, should not be surprised to find that they lack mobility.
We need greater clarity.
National training qualifications must be comparable, although this does not mean that they have to be standardised.
I already called for this last year, in the EQF own-initiative report that I prepared for Parliament.
A great deal has happened since then.
Fears that Member States would lose powers have been allayed including in my country.
Lifelong learning and the EQF were major milestones of the German Council Presidency, which was acknowledged as successful.
Now it is full steam ahead with creating a national qualifications framework, which is not exactly easy, given Germany's federal structure and the autonomy of each Land.
I would like to thank Mario Mantovani on behalf of the PPE-DE Group for his tenacity in dealing with the Commission and the Council and for keeping everyone in the Groups who followed the EQF informed.
I do hope that the report will be adopted in the first reading tomorrow.
From now on, there is a need for much discussion between trainers, teachers and training institutions, as we go into the details.
I experienced this just yesterday in a meeting with vocational college teachers in Hesse.
When ranking qualifications, for example, the German Master Craftsman or Tradesman Certificate belongs in at least the third or fourth of the eight levels.
Others are not familiar with this qualification at all.
The strength of the German dual system is not apparent to people unless they have experienced it for themselves.
In our European teaching and learning workshop, which is based on the principle of subsidiarity, the employment and vocational policy dimensions will be considerably strengthened in education and training.
Together we must and will achieve an ambitious goal: to incorporate a quality standard, the EQF, in certificates and diplomas by 2010.
