on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, a word of thanks, first of all, to the rapporteur, who certainly took a great deal of trouble, even if the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development did not adopt all of his proposals.
I regret that.
I do not intend to go into detail now but to say in general terms that the compulsory requirement is, of course, compliance with the law.
The new feature, following the severance of the link between production volumes and aid, is that this compliance with the law is now the basis for the payment of premiums.
Those who do not take the premiums cannot have their premiums cut.
Growers need only refrain from applying.
Nevertheless, they still have to observe the law.
Mrs McGuinness, when you speak of seven inspections and nine inspectors - or vice versa - you should be taking up the cudgels with your own national government, for it is up to the Member States to determine how inspections are conducted, and if you have no coordination because numerous different administrative bodies are responsible for enforcing particular laws, and each authority sends its inspectors separately, thereby imposing endless burdens on farmers, that is not a matter for the EU but for your own national tier of government.
Sort that out, and everything will be fine.
I believe there is an urgent need to make these funds conditional.
At the congress, we heard someone say these were farmers' funds.
No, they are not farmers' funds: they are granted to farmers.
Do not misunderstand me: it is right that these funds should be awarded, but it is also right that society expects them to be given to those who fulfil certain conditions.
I have just had an inspection myself.
Two people came, having announced their visit.
Although they did not let me choose the time of the visit, they did announce it; they duly arrived, and it went very smoothly.
Of course, Commissioner, these inspections should also be used to develop an advisory service to help farmers by informing them how best to comply with and apply the law on their farms.
That, as you know, was set in motion back then on the initiative of Parliament, so the possibility exists.
Please make it compulsory for the Member States, and then we shall be one step further forward.
