Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Kacin has presented a report which has attracted very broad support in the House.
A number of us contributed to that effort.
I therefore do not intend to discuss the finer points of detail, but would simply like to make various comments in a personal capacity.
Serbia's democratic forces were too late in making the radical break with the Milošević era, much too late.
As a result, cooperation with the Hague Tribunal was not addressed seriously and credibly, which was why cooperation within the Stabilisation and Association Agreement was also delayed, then suspended, then resumed, and now we are waiting again.
In other words, Serbia's path to the EU is already mapped out and Serbia has the capacity, but it does need to make efforts of its own.
The unresolved Kosovo issue hangs like a dark cloud over Serbian politics and is having a paralysing effect.
Who is suffering as a result?
That is easy to answer: the young generation.
After the embargo and the NATO bombing - and the Serbs have Mr Milošević to thank for both of them, not the democratic forces which are in government today - young people now face another intractable problem, namely Kosovo.
This is impeding efficient political work as well, which plays straight into the hands of the radicals and their cronies at the top.
Thankfully, visa facilitation will finally create some breathing space, and this is something which we in Parliament have long been campaigning for.
We want to see young Serbs participating very soon in our education and youth programmes which we opened up with effect from 2007.
I would also like to pay tribute to the very positive work being undertaken by the Vojvodina regional parliament in relation to tolerance and youth cooperation, which is having a major impact.
A great many young people have come together in the Danube region this year, and this is a marvellous example of a commitment to tolerance and peaceful social relations.
There is a great longing for normality in Serbia.
Politicians should be doing more for the present and the future and should leave the past behind.
They should also be doing much more to improve the daily lives of ordinary people, to ensure that they do not lose popular support.
