Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by thanking our rapporteur for doing everything that was humanly possible to arrive at this compromise.
Ever since the Commission first presented a document on the reform of the common organisation of the market in wine and again in today's discussion, we have seen that wine is one of the most sensitive of agricultural products; it is one of the most sophisticated but also stirs the emotions like few other products.
I believe the European Parliament, especially the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, has managed to assemble and present a compromise package that reflects a wise choice of approach, ensuring, for example, that the traditional oenological methods used in the Member States are clearly explained on the basis of differences in European viniculture and - something I consider very important - that quality wines are set apart from table wines.
It is imperative that designations of origin should remain in place.
They are beneficial to wine producers, but most of all they benefit consumers.
Preservation of the enrichment limits bolsters traditional wine production in Europe.
The diverse climatic, geographical and structural conditions in which wine grapes are grown in Europe have to be taken into consideration.
As an Austrian, I know how necessary certain measures are, but I am opposed to compulsory grubbing-up, because there is a need to observe consumer wine choices very closely and identify where there are prospects of further increasing consumption.
Savings we achieve through these reforms - and I am also anxious to make savings - must remain in the first pillar and continue to support viniculture and wine producers in some way or other.
Let me conclude by saying that I believe the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has managed to present a coherent and prudent package, and I hope that tomorrow's parliamentary vote will send a clear signal to the Council and the Commission that we want viniculture to have a future in Europe, too.
