on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, in plenary this afternoon we debated the European neighbourhood policy.
Following the enlargement round of 2004, the European Commission proposed the development of a coherent strategy towards the Union's new neighbours.
The ENP has created special links with a ring of countries that share the EU's fundamental values and aims.
Our neighbour Ukraine is firmly embedded in the ENP.
We are aware of the special geopolitical and commercial importance of Ukraine as a natural bridge between the EU on the one hand and Russia and Central Asia on the other.
Today the EU is Ukraine's main trading partner; by 2006, the volume of trade between Ukraine and the Member States of the EU had already reached EUR 26.6 billion.
We in the European Union acknowledge the great efforts that have been made in Ukraine in recent years.
The former command economy has been developed into an efficient market economy.
According to the OECD report, Ukraine's economic growth averaged 7.6% in the years from 2000 to 2006.
That is a great success.
In February 2007 we began negotiations on a new partnership and association agreement between Ukraine and the EU.
The Ukrainian aspirations to EU and NATO membership are also well documented.
For reasons of trade and economic policy, accession to the World Trade Organization is at the very top of the Ukrainian agenda.
We assume that accession to the WTO will prove possible before the end of this year.
This would also considerably broaden the scope for cooperation between the EU and Ukraine and smooth the way for negotiations on the creation of a free-trade area in the ENP framework.
The EU must treat Ukraine as a genuine partner and give it clear messages.
In this respect I can only welcome the outcome of the EU-Ukraine summit held in Kiev on 14 September 2007, where the strong and enduring relationship between the two parties was reaffirmed.
We should continue to lend vigorous support to Ukraine on its path to WTO membership, in the subsequent creation of a free-trade area, and with regard to its European aspirations.
