Mr President, fewer and fewer people are spending their entire working life with the same employer, so they need to be able to adapt without any problems to changing living and working conditions.
At the same time, people must have adequate employment security.
Commissioner Spidla, only if flexibility and security are brought into equilibrium will the new flexicurity concept become widely accepted.
On the one hand, there must be more flexibility for companies so that they can identify market niches and become more innovative and plan their development proactively rather than just reacting to events.
On the other hand, workers in the Member States need the security afforded by modern systems of social protection and reliable agreements between responsible social partners.
The right framework conditions must also be put in place for more permanent jobs and easier transitions to new jobs.
The abuse of new forms of employment must also be prevented, along with bogus self-employment and undeclared work.
A further priority is lifelong learning which is essential to make our workers fit for globalisation.
Agreeing a benchmark of 2% of GDP on a binding basis is unacceptable, in my view, for we have to leave the Member States some financial latitude here.
However, governments and businesses must ensure that far more is invested in our most important resource, namely well-educated people who are highly skilled, motivated and adaptable.
The PPE-DE Group has again tabled various amendments at my initiative.
In one of these amendments, we say that companies must be able to decide for themselves on how they approach the issue of corporate social responsibility.
CSR must continue to be based on a voluntary, not an obligatory system.
As my final point, let me say that bringing forward the date for lifting the transitional measures obstructing the free movement of workers from 2013 to 2009 sends out the wrong signal.
In areas where far higher hourly wages are paid with a high level of social security, the pressure from migration is intense and difficult to manage.
Here too, security must not be neglected, notwithstanding the flexibility that is undoubtedly necessary.
