Mr President, o sonho europeo, the European dream, der Europäische Traum!
I think that the vast majority of Europeans have a fairly clear idea and generally agree on what this should be.
That being the case, why is there so much mistrust directed towards the Commission in so many countries?
You say that it has to do with communication.
However, a great many citizens, even those who only consider these problems in passing, are saying, no, it has to do with the specific projects, and it has to do with the Lisbon Strategy and its obvious failure to date.
Mr Swoboda says that the social dimension is missing and I must admit that on this issue, he is right.
However, at the same time, Mr Duff has said that the social dimension of the Constitutional Treaty - my apologies, you call it the Reform Treaty - must be the focal point.
That is all very well, but where does it say anything about the social dimension there?
In which form is this Treaty actually readable, and where in this Treaty does it say anything about basic democratic principles such as the separation of powers?
If you actually did what you said and what you apparently intend - namely to convey the message effectively and implement your intentions in a way which is verifiable in hard data - communication would become far less of a problem.
The President of the European Court of Auditors offered you a very clear starting point yesterday evening.
He mentioned very specific numbers for the first time: EUR 4 billion incorrectly disbursed from the Structural Funds alone.
Let me quote from his speech: 'The most frequent errors were claims for ineligible expenditure and failure to carry out tender procedures as well as a lack of evidence to support the calculation of overheads or the staff costs involved.
The supervisory and control systems in the Member States were generally ineffective or moderately effective, and the Commission maintains only a moderately effective supervision of their functioning.'
You need to take action.
Please do not attempt to improve communication about what you are not doing!
That is bound to go wrong.
