on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, my thanks in the first instance to the two rapporteurs on this topic, Mr Liese and Mr Jarzembowski, who evidently did not always have a smooth ride together on this topic.
Together with investment in new technologies and the creation of further infrastructure, emissions trading can make an important contribution to the reduction of CO2 emissions in aviation.
In doing so, emissions trading must allow growth rather than hindering it.
It should provide incentives to renew fleets and create more efficient, more modern aircraft.
The Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe is making the case for including all airlines in a single starting date of 2011.
In our view, the emissions from 2004-2006 should serve as a basis.
This rewards those airlines that have updated and modernised their fleet in the past.
My group proposes setting the cap at 90%.
This is ambitious, more ambitious than the Commission's proposal, but not excessive.
A maximum of 30% of the allowances should be auctioned off, in our opinion, to make it easier for new operators to enter the market.
The revenues from the auction should primarily be used by the aviation sector to reduce emissions.
We are also in favour of increasing the take-off weight to 20 tonnes, because we want to keep the bureaucratic hurdles for small operators to a minimum.
I make the case for including aviation in a trading system that is as open and efficient as possible.
Limiting how credits can be used makes no sense ecologically.
Just as every gram of CO2 emitted must be regarded in the same way, the reduction of emissions, too, has the same effect everywhere.
There are good economic reasons for unlimited, flexible access to credits if emissions can be reduced elsewhere less expensively.
Aviation is vitally important to Europe's economic growth.
Globalisation is unthinkable without airlines that are competitive.
In future, people will want to fly more, not less, not only in Europe but also, in particular, to other parts of the world; we have to acknowledge this.
The EU is single-handedly deciding to include aviation in emissions trading and is making both friends and enemies internationally in the process.
If we Europeans want to lead the way in climate politics, we have to ask ourselves not only how far we should go but also how we can take everyone else with us.
This question will come up again in Bali.
Ladies and gentlemen, it is time to distance ourselves from insular EU solutions in climate policy.
