on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, transparency is necessary in agriculture.
Mr Deß said that money is going into shady projects.
It is true that we want to expose this, too, through such transparency, but perhaps he will also agree with me that not much money is finding its way into European agriculture and Europe's rural areas; some of it is flowing into the wrong channels.
Billions of euro have been earmarked for farmers in the budgets of past years but have failed to reach farmers.
All the export subsidies in favour of farmers, the EU's whole practice of intervention involving storage - these have swallowed up billions of euro but have not helped farmers.
At best - as Mrs Harkin from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe said - it has kept prices down by means of downward stabilisation of the market, which is a kind of brake on inflation.
Naturally, it is the general aim to keep prices stable, but it cannot be in the interests of farmers to be the nation's or Europe's lackey in order to ensure this.
The rapporteur was right when he talked of the need for a frame of reference: publication alone is not enough.
I should like to give a frame of reference: even after the reform of the CAP, at a rate of EUR 300 per hectare, a rationalised business where one worker takes care of 400 hectares - that is, the highest level of rationalisation - receives approximately EUR 120 000 per worker.
80% of farmers do not even receive a tenth of this.
Therefore, we also need to explain what happens to this money.
This frame of reference must be created by politicians - it will not automatically come with publication.
When the Commission states in its proposal that these payments may have to be graduated, that modulation into the second pillar must be introduced - as here the funds produce better results in terms of workers, the environment - then this is a foretaste of what lies ahead, namely the discussion following the publication of this information.
And then we shall have to give politics free rein once more.
However, the figures must first be allowed to speak, they must be published, and we must be patient, and if they prove incorrect, the policy will have to be changed so as to put them right.
Many thanks for your report - we shall be supporting it.
