Mr President, my fellow Member Mr Goebbels said after his speech that despite his criticism, he would not die for Nice - which I very much hope he will not, and that he will live for a long time.
First and foremost Nice is not a treaty for which it would be worth dying!
I hope that this Treaty which we are getting will at least have a much higher added value than Nice.
I would like to take up where Mr Lambsdorff left off.
Our citizens want a strong European Union, not as an intrusion into daily life, but as an outward representation in order to be better able to represent our citizens.
I now think that this treaty, for all its weaknesses, still represents substantial progress.
It is a necessary, albeit insufficient, prerequisite for us to pursue an active foreign and security policy.
The Kosovo problem is, of course, preoccupying us.
We shall see whether there is the will generally to promote a common foreign and security policy.
Both the Portuguese and the Slovenian Presidencies are having to gear themselves up intensively for what we are doing, should no amicable solution be reached here.
However, it is important that we create the appropriate conditions in the long run.
I would like to bring up two things here: on the one hand, we do of course need a workable diplomatic service, which must be located at the Commission.
It makes no sense to place foreign policy with the Vice-President of the Commission and High Representatives if the diplomatic service then simply has to be organised elsewhere.
On the other hand - something several fellow Members like Enrique Barón Crespo and others have already pointed out - we must make clear that this Parliament has been involved from the outset in the appointment of the High Representative.
Finally, one further comment to the Vice-President of the Commission: you repeatedly point out how important the negotiation of this treaty is.
The matter will not be settled - as my colleague Mr Schulz has said - with the agreement which will hopefully be reached in the Council and not even with ratification, but our citizens must be convinced during and after ratification that this Treaty will help them by allowing their interests to be represented in this world.
