Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the proposals for the appointment of seven members of the Court of Auditors and can only reiterate how important the work of the Court of Auditors is in protecting the financial interests of the EU and the Member States.
The Court of Auditors plays a key role in the pursuit of this aim and has established an excellent reputation.
It performs its task fearlessly, fairly, professionally and independently, but of course it always has to rely on individuals, for it is people who make any institution tick.
And since its members are proposed by the Member States, it is actually to the latter that my remarks are primarily addressed.
On considering these nominees, some might object to their relatively high ages.
For these particular positions, however, I regard personal and professional experience as crucial factors, and auditors simply do not possess these attributes in sufficient measure at the age of 25, 30 or 35.
The more warranted criticism, in my view, relates to the percentage of women, which is very low.
The quality of candidates, however, must also take precedence over their sex.
I attach great importance to the development of team spirit and esprit de corps and to the quest for close ties with national audit offices.
There should be cooperation, but not dependence.
As you know, the question whether the Court of Auditors has too many members has been hotly debated in recent times.
The decision has now been taken by virtue of the Reform Treaty.
There remains some concern - and it is a legitimate concern - as to whether a Court with 27 members can still operate at maximum efficiency.
The number and the profile of the members must be right.
Above all, particularly in this domain, professional competence must not be subordinated to political considerations.
Thinking ahead to future restructuring plans, which there will surely be, I would like to cite the example of the Federal Audit Office in the country I come from, which has a large number of members - I believe there are more than 50 - but in which each member heads a department and is fully involved in audit operations as well as enjoying full judicial independence.
Whatever the future holds for the Federal Audit Office, it is and will remain our main ally in the task of budgetary scrutiny.
