Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what the Commission states - that soil is the crucial basis for the long-term, sustainable production of food, feed and biomass - is true.
It is also true that we cannot be satisfied with the state of the soils in the European Union, but to draw from that the conclusion that we need a directive at European level is to head off in the wrong direction.
Why is that?
We are not taking account of the fact that there are already numerous regulations within the European Union that apply to soil and that we could use effectively.
Examples are the Habitats Directive, the Directive on integrated pollution prevention and control, the Water Framework Directive, the Groundwater Directive, and the rules on cross-compliance: with these, we can have a financial influence on the improvement of the situation in individual countries.
These are all existing measures, and if we add the Soil Protection Directive to them it will create regulatory duplication - parallel legislation - that really only creates more bureaucracy.
We say we want to reduce bureaucracy by 25% by 2010, but this will only achieve the very opposite!
It will achieve a 25% increase.
In the Treaty, we undertook to regulate locally the things that could best be regulated at that level, and that is what we must do, and we must accelerate this.
The claim that the deterioration of soil is causing climate change is, however, unacceptable.
Scientists are unanimous that this deterioration is a result of climate change, and not the reason for it.
The rapporteur has certainly put a lot of work into this, but when we see that rules that are implemented by other directives have priority, that is unacceptable: we do not have top-priority directives and then lower-priority directives.
If we really want to achieve something, let us stick to the method of open coordination, transferring expertise from country to country.
That is the right approach and it will surely bring a result.
This Directive, on the other hand, brings only bureaucracy and confusing legislation.
