Madam President, allow me to begin by saying that the Members of the Free Democrat Party (FDP) have allowed a free vote for tomorrow.
There will therefore be no party line.
Why is this so?
There is a dilemma.
The situation for Germany is, of course, deteriorating.
Instead of the 832 000 voters per MEP to date, there will now be 858 000.
Parliament wants to make this happen from 2009 onwards.
This will not happening in the Council until 2014.
Reference is being made to this among other things.
Even good German newspapers like the Berlin Tagesspiegel write that the seats are being redistributed tomorrow.
There are fellow Members here in Parliament who are saying: Germany will lose three seats tomorrow.
The problem is - and this now skips to the part by which I personally stand - this is wrong.
The Lamassoure/Severin report secures the highest possible number of seats that Germany is able to have under the Treaty.
The Treaty of Nice already stipulates that there is a maximum of 96 seats.
The report clearly endorses this.
Why, then, this debate?
Why the provocation with the d'Hondt method, in which only the larger countries gain and the smaller ones lose massively?
It is a proposal backed, even initiated, by fellow Members from the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) to my great surprise.
What does it actually mean?
I believe that it is an un-European proposal.
The balance, the just and fair balance between large, medium-sized and small countries, is lost here.
What is more it is a proposal, which does not have the slightest chance in the Council.
Do we and our fellow Members in the CDU therefore really believe that in Belgium, Ireland, Sweden or Estonia they cannot carry out any analyses and they will vote for this proposal in the Council?
No!
This proposal is an empty bubble, which is being replaced without any consequence - with one exception.
This consequence is a further deterioration in the atmosphere as regards European policy at home in Germany.
We should support the Lamassoure/Severin Report.
We should ensure that a strong political signal goes out from the European Parliament to the Council that we are able to deal with the problems ourselves.
If this signal, a European signal, is strong, it is good for us all and I expressly include Germany in this.
