on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, let me begin by thanking the Commissioner for his remarks.
As you know, Commissioner, we have been having this discussion about the assessment of external costs since the 1920s, and we Members also proposed various models when we were adopting the Eurovignette Directive.
However, since we did not succeed at that time, for political reasons, in incorporating external costs to any great degree into the method used to calculate the road tolls for heavy goods vehicles, we reached an agreement that you - the Commission - would present a uniform method by the summer of 2008.
That agreement assumes particular importance in the light of the present discussion on climate change.
This being the case, we now have questions to ask.
Some of them have already been aired.
Firstly, will the Commission present a universally applicable and transparent model for the assessment of all external costs by June of next year, a model that may be regarded as universally binding?
When I hear of a handbook, it sounds good, but the term tends to suggest a pick-and-mix catalogue of good practices.
What we want, however, is a universally binding method that will not subsequently be called into question.
Secondly, will this model take account of the climatic and environmental objectives set by the EU?
That is what my honourable colleague Mrs Ţicău asked.
In terms of method, that would no easy matter, because all the existing approaches focus purely on the inclusion of current costs and not on the achievement of environmental goals.
If the pursuit of these goals were factored in, it would create a prescriptive element - a normative dimension, as it were - whereas the debate has so far been confined to current costs.
Thirdly, it goes without saying that we want a legislative proposal at the end of the day.
May I therefore ask when the Commission intends to revise the Eurovignette Directive?
Is that its intention, or is this still entirely up in the air?
Fourthly, when will this method or model start to apply to the assessment of infrastructure charges for other modes of transport too?
That precise question has been exercising us, as Georg Jarzembowski said.
We want to get rid of the distorted competition between modes of transport and raise them all to a common comparable level.
