on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, let me say to the rapporteur - who has just complained that we are sitting here debating at an ungodly hour - that I was a Member of a national parliament for 20 years.
I do not know whether he has ever sat in a national parliament, but there, one becomes accustomed to holding night-time sessions, and for me, this is not an ungodly hour.
The rapporteur may well claim that the matter should have been dealt with more swiftly, but may I remind him that he himself took his time before declaring himself willing to produce this report.
Madam President, I would just like to say all the same that the current Regulation on business registers, which relates to the harmonisation of business registers used by Member States for statistical purposes, dates back to 1993 and is now partly obsolete.
The proposal for a regulation contains two major amendments in respect of the new data requirements that have been identified in this context.
All businesses engaging in economic activity contribute to GDP and their local units, as well as the corresponding legal units, will henceforth have to be registered on a compulsory basis.
Some business sectors are registered on an optional basis under the current version of the Regulation.
My second point is that financial links and enterprise groups should also be covered and data on multinational groups and their advisory units should be exchanged between the Member States and Eurostat.
As regards the recommendation for second reading of the report, we have been presented with two technical amendments that have been proposed by the legal service of the European Parliament.
The Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs has proposed, as I do myself, to follow the recommendations of the legal service, which quite rightly points out that the inclusion of the terms 'purpose' and 'scope' among the powers given to the Commission would allow the latter to modify the obligations of the Member States, the authorities and the central banks, as well as its own obligations.
These obligations are elements of the basic act; any modification of them in one direction or another could affect political choices made in the basic act and these modifications of the common position do not constitute an obstacle to an agreement at second reading, given that they reflect the results of agreements reached between the three main institutions, thereby allowing us to conclude this item of business at second reading.
I believe that is the important thing.
