Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, over the last few months, almost everyone has realised that we must do something to prevent dramatic climate change.
Reports by the International Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) and by the former chief economist of the World Bank, Sir Nicholas Stern, have made it clear that the cost of doing nothing is very much greater than the cost of doing something.
Sir Nicholas even said that, if climate change continues unchecked, this could have the same negative effects in economic terms as the two World Wars.
This example makes it clear that this is not a trivial matter or some line dreamt up by the Greens, but a matter of tangible economic interests and something that truly affects every individual.
It was, therefore, logical that the summit of EU Heads of State or Government in March decided that the European Union would reduce its emissions by at least 20% by 2020 and, if we reach an international agreement - which we do want to do - by 30%.
It is therefore inconsistent for a major area of the economy not to reduce emissions at all and instead let them continue to increase unchecked.
As the Commissioner said, aviation emissions have doubled since 1990.
It is a good thing, then, that the Commission has made a proposal to reduce CO2 emissions in the aviation sector.
However, this proposal also has flaws, and I am certain that the European Parliament will address these tomorrow with numerous amendments.
I should like to thank all those who have made it possible for us to come to what I believe will be a satisfactory result tomorrow, especially the shadow rapporteurs, Mr Jarzembowski, the rapporteur in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, who was involved in the Hughes procedure, and all the participants from the other committees that provided an opinion.
Although some positions diverged, I think that we were agreed on many important points, and shall agree tomorrow when it comes to the vote.
We are agreed that we want one single starting date.
Both flights within Europe and intercontinental flights that take off or land in Europe should be included in the system on the same day.
This is essential for reasons of competitive neutrality, and also because two thirds of CO2 emissions come from intercontinental flights rather than flights within Europe.
Naturally, we must also speak with third countries, so the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety also adopted a motion that the Commission should continue to negotiate with third countries.
If we can then agree on common goals and a common approach that achieves just as much as the Commission proposal, then we should also enter into negotiations with third countries.
We are agreed - this is a second point that I should like to highlight - that we wish to auction a much larger proportion of allowances.
This is important for newcomers, but mainly to lessen the 'windfall profits' that are so prominent in the electricity sector.
Electricity prices have risen even though the allowances were distributed at no cost.
This is why a larger proportion must be auctioned off and the revenues given back to citizens in the form of lower taxes and charges on environmentally friendly transport; this is also what the committee decided.
We are agreed that the upper limit for emissions should be below 100%, because this is about reducing and not just stabilising CO2 levels.
In addition, the Committee on the Environment has decided to introduce a multiplier of two, in order to take nitrogen oxide emissions into account.
If the Commission makes a proposal - which is then adopted - as to an alternative way to deal with nitrogen oxides, then this multiplier can be dropped, but for now, we need it.
Furthermore, it is also very important to bring in an efficiency clause, and the Committee on the Environment has also decided on this.
The goals that the airlines set themselves for improving efficiency must be achieved, and the aviation industry must not be able to simply buy its way out.
Ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow there will be some very close voting in some areas.
There are some points on which we do not all agree.
On behalf of my group - not as the rapporteur - I can say that the Committee on the Environment has gone too far at some points.
For example, we shall not support a cap of 75%, and we should still like to obtain relief for small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats will vote in favour of the report in any case, and I believe that Parliament as a whole will give a clear signal to the Council.
We should not be satisfied with merely formulating general goals to tackle climate change, but should also implement specific legislation.
We shall note with great interest whether the Council puts its words into action or whether it falls short of its own targets or even weakens the Commission proposal.
The European Parliament will not accept that.
(Applause)
