Mr President, anyone listening to the speeches here, especially those delivered by Mrs Wagenknecht and Mr Schulz, can tell that they were talking of a time which, I am glad to say, has long passed.
These were sayings dug out of the Socialist glory hole, and they bring us no further forward on globalisation issues.
Everyone in this Chamber knows that economic freedom, increased prosperity and the social model are mutually compatible.
Europe is the best illustration of that fact.
Just as we introduced the euro as an internal fitness programme for the single market, we now have the Lisbon Strategy, for all the reservations and problems that may accompany it, as a fitness programme to get us into shape for global competition.
We have no reason at all to hide from globalisation.
The way it is being discussed here is absolutely unreal.
Globalisation is the mainspring of democracy and prosperity for underdeveloped countries.
It is certainly untrue that there is only a downside, as the examples cited in the last few speeches implied.
In fact, all countries benefit from globalisation: the developing countries, the newly industrialised countries and even those developing countries with an overextravagant government apparatus that taxpayers can no longer afford.
We cannot turn back the clock, and Europe is the model for the rest of the world.
I wonder why we hush that up.
Why do we only speak about the bad things?
Of course we can speak about Wild-West practices in the financial markets.
Yes, we do need international coordination.
We need international restriction and supervision.
But who, apart from Mr Goebbels, has mentioned the fact that there are also systemic malfunctions which we have not yet managed to curb?
In Japan the rule is that the senior manager of a company must not earn more than twenty times the salary of its average worker.
What justification is there for allowing managers in Europe and the United States to earn a thousand times more than their companies' workers?
We can talk about these things, but we surely cannot demonise globalisation in general, for globalisation opens up new opportunities while combining freedom with prosperity.
