Madam President, politics is the art of the possible.
That maxim also applies to this latest reform of the common organisation of the market in wine.
It must be said, however, that the Commission's assumption in 2006 was unmarketable wine surpluses in the EU, which have not materialised, and that its legislative proposal largely disregarded the opinion delivered by Parliament in February.
As was the case back in 1999, we have managed, by dint of tenacity and resourcefulness and in close cooperation with the trade, particularly in the cross-party working group on wine, to work out a compromise with which the wine trade in both southern and northern Europe should be able to live, provided that growers produce good wines and vintners are able to market them effectively inside and outside the EU.
It is our intention to create the requisite set of instruments and make the regions responsible for using them within an appropriate financial framework.
In the irksome dispute about winemaking processes that was unnecessarily fuelled by the Commission, we once again reached an agreement, very largely on the basis of the 1999 compromise, even though the Commissioner is still not happy with that.
Common sense and awareness that sales problems in the South will not be solved by making it impossible to produce marketable wine in the North have won the day, and I hope they will also secure a large majority here.
The devil, as always, is in the detail.
I respect the compromise, for which the rapporteur himself had to make concessions too, and all credit to him for that.
For this reason I do not intend to table any new amendments, although I shall not refrain from expressing my opinion when it comes to the vote on disastrous specific proposals that have nothing to do with the compromise.
It is utterly counterproductive, for instance, to insist that wine labels bear an indication of the origin of EU grape must which is used to enrich the wine if the aim is to encourage that form of enrichment.
The important thing is that the reforms help to guarantee sufficient production potential in terms of quantity and quality to maintain our global market lead and to ensure that we in the EU and elsewhere drink far more wine for the sake of our health!
(Applause)
