rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, I am glad that the European Union is again discussing tobacco consumption.
In my country alone, 350 people die every day as a result of tobacco consumption so it is only right that we deal with this topic at European level.
I am very glad that the committee decided to launch a European initiative to continue to promote a ban on smoking in restaurants, cafes and pubs, and public buildings.
I think this is the right approach.
Whether there needs to be European legislation or national legislation that would then perhaps be established within the European framework is a matter for debate.
Those who still believe that we do not need it should bear in mind that, in relation to the Air Quality Framework Directive that we passed here a few weeks ago, we argued about whether we would accept 20 or 25 ppm of fine particulate in the air.
Commissioner, the figure in the average pub is 540 grams and after midnight at the 'Aviateur', a popular pub in this area, it is 1 730 grams, so you see how great the differences are and how necessary this is.
Another very important point, which has concerned me for many years, is additives.
Even now, 600 additives may be included in cigarettes, and 70-80 of these are on the 'red list'.
These are highly toxic, carcinogenic substances which may damage our young people's fertility and trap them in addiction.
These substances require very critical, intense scrutiny, the cost of which must, of course, be borne by the manufacturers.
The thought of Commissioner Kyprianou having to spend his last penny on tests made necessary by that industry is deplorable.
The question of costs must therefore be settled, by placing it firmly with the Commission.
I believe that this will reveal many of the main pathogenic ingredients of cigarettes.
Nevertheless, cigarettes are still dangerous.
For me, a further important point is the question of whether, in the long term, we can get industry to pay some of the expenditure brought about by tobacco.
As far as I can see, we have introduced producer liability in many areas: if you drive your car into a ditch and this was due to some defect in the car, the manufacturer of the car must pay.
Commissioner, I would like to see you make every effort to initiate this redistribution of costs onto the manufacturers of tobacco products because, when you think about it, my country spends EUR 50 billion getting people back on their feet.
Why should somebody who has never held a cigarette in their hand have to be involved in that?
That is very unfair, and I would be glad to see those on this side of the Chamber who have a social conscience working hard on this issue.
The costs should be transferred to where they belong - those responsible for them, the producers.
Of course, they will pass the cost on afterwards.
I understand that; that is the way of things in a social market economy.
Every year, thousands of people in Europe die because of smoking.
We must therefore put proper, strict rules in place.
