on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, in our renewed deliberations on the new version of the Directive concerning the pursuit of television broadcasting activities, henceforth to be known as the 'Audiovisual Media Services Directive', we have constantly conducted a cultural policy debate as well, concerning cultural diversity and maintaining quality in TV broadcasting.
With Parliament's final decision, the legislative process is really just starting, so we are already looking ahead.
I urge the Member States to make use of the subsidiarity principle enshrined in the Directive and fully exploit the scope for more cultural and media diversity.
This applies especially to more rights for independent producers, the contribution of non-linear services such as video-on-demand providers in support of European productions, and limiting the scope for product placement.
Public broadcasting in Europe, in particular, should do without product placement.
Throughout the work on the new version of the Directive, we had a dispute over matters of fundamental principle.
This focused on how much market liberalisation we want and where, precisely, we intend to regulate.
From the Greens' perspective, this dispute has been resolved in favour of more market-oriented liberalisation, especially advertising.
Our Group will therefore not support the new version of the Directive in tomorrow's vote.
The numerous new opportunities for even more advertising - whether in sports programmes, series or feature films - will result in a loss of quality in Europe's media.
Public broadcasting will therefore play an even more important role in future, and national legislators must enable it to fulfil its mandate to inform and educate as comprehensively as possible, also via new media such as mobile or Internet TV.
That is why, also when dealing with the new version of the Telecommunications Directive, we need to establish an appropriate framework at European level, if broadcasting is in future to be received to a greater extent via mobile phones or the Internet.
