draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - Mr President, the financial ceiling for heading 4 is EUR 7.002 billion according to the multi-annual financial framework.
The Council increased the Commission's 2008 preliminary draft budget of EUR 6.672 billion to EUR 6.89 billion, mainly by adding additional amounts for Palestine and Kosovo.
Parliament pointed out at an early stage that these funds could not be adequate because challenges that could already be foreseen had not been taken into account.
Now we hear from the Council that much higher amounts are required, particularly in the area of security policy.
Unfortunately, we are still not aware of any concrete proposals.
We must, however, come to an agreement with the Council as regards CFSP.
Let us therefore negotiate openly and honestly on the actual needs for 2008.
If we have approved some EUR 250 million a year for the CFSP from 2007 to 2013, the shortfall in funding will already be apparent.
Our costs for security policy are running almost according to the time frame.
Another important subject is Palestine.
In 2007 we are spending significantly more than estimated, up to EUR 400 million.
We also need more money next year than the Commission and the Council have so far estimated.
We cannot expect Parliament to introduce lower amounts into the budget, however, and to subsequently plunder other policies in the course of the year because there has been no serious planning.
Nor is there yet any clarity regarding the precise allocation of the tasks relating to Kosovo and the budgetary needs for 2008.
I know we will first have to wait for the exact mandate here.
In conclusion, I should like to point to the political dialogue we shortly need to establish.
The European Parliament has been fighting for this in negotiations on the multi-annual financial framework and to have it anchored in the Interinstitutional Agreement.
This would be the right forum to tackle major developments in a constructive manner, in good time and on the basis of mutual trust.
This would be the right context for preparing a review of the new financial instruments.
