on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Soil Protection Directive and the Soil Framework Directive, together with the Thematic Strategy for Soil Protection, rank among the key topics in this part-session, as of course they have done in recent weeks and months in the committees.
Normally a strategy - in this case about soil - is dealt with before the relevant directive, for good reason.
The advantage of proceeding in stages is usually that interests are discussed openly early on, so that the newly gained points of view can be taken into account as the directive is formulated.
With regard to the strong criticism that has been directed at the Commission proposal on the Soil Protection Directive, prior discussion about the topic would undoubtedly have been helpful, including to calm tempers all round.
In contrast to the normal nature of a framework directive, the Commission proposal - and I share this opinion - includes very rigid, detailed regulations, and commits the Member States to numerous examinations and reports that would result in a considerable administrative load.
This is unacceptable.
The new Member States already have national soil protection legislation that functions well.
For them, the Commission proposal would in some cases require their systems to be completely restructured: a high level of regulatory duplication and additional bureaucratic burden.
Therefore, numerous Member States are sceptical about this Directive, as has already been stated.
Nevertheless, in the last few months I have been heavily involved in transforming the Commission proposal, rewriting it.
Essentially, it was a matter of allowing the Member States more scope within which to operate, while still pursuing the goal of curbing the growing deterioration of the soil at European level.
I hope that, in the end, together with our friend Mrs Gutiérrez-Cortines, we arrived at a sensible result, including with regard to the significance of the overall topic of soil protection, a result that can be a model worldwide as well as in Europe.
May I therefore express my warm thanks to the rapporteur once again for offering a solution that enabled a compromise to be found.
