Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, allow me to begin by paying a compliment to the President of the Council.
I believe you have greatly adorned this Chamber with your Portuguese Presidency ties, and you have generated an esprit de corps in the Council that we should never have thought possible.
From the perspective of budgetary control, there are two points on which we wish to lay particular emphasis for this coming financial year.
The first point, to which the Commissioner has already referred, is the continuation of the screening exercise focusing on the staff establishment in the realms of coordination and administrative support.
We know that the Commission itself has doubts as to whether it actually needs to have 1 700 employees assigned to communication or 3 500 to document management or 1 700 in the personnel directorate.
All of these together amount to almost a third of the staff in the support and coordination services.
We seek to ensure that the administration is not concerned with itself but that its workforce contains employees who can implement the political priorities of the Commission as well as those of Parliament.
For this reason we continue to call on the Commission to shed further light on these areas of activity in an action plan.
This issue must remain on the agenda, and it will remain on the agenda, with or without the reserve, with or without paragraph 11 of our resolution and even with or without the fulfilment of prior conditions.
I urge you very strongly to continue to pursue this matter.
You have commented on it; I have heard those comments, and I shall judge you by them.
I believe that this Commission certainly can draw up an action plan, for this particular Commission is in a position to do so.
Its successors, however, will not be.
This is why I believe it is important for you to fulfil this prior condition, to carry out the appropriate preliminary work.
I myself am very interested in this matter and am always willing to discuss it with you.
The second point to which we attach importance concerns national management declarations for funds that are subject to shared management.
Mr President-in-Office, during our conciliation procedure you made certain statements in which you indicated to us that you would deal with this matter.
So far you have not said precisely how you intend to set about this task.
Our call for action on this issue also extends to the Slovenian Presidency.
We strongly urge the Commission to use the relevant guidelines to establish the conditions in which we can initiate talks with the Member States in the first place.
Without recourse to these guidelines and without corresponding activities on the part of the Member States, it will be difficult to take any action.
