on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Mrs Oomen-Ruijten for the very fruitful and constructive cooperation.
On behalf of my Group, I would also like to express our solidarity with Mr Lagendijk: we reject all the unfair attacks against him.
I would like to confine myself to one key issue, namely the threatened ban on two parties, the AKP and the DTP.
In both cases, we want to make it very clear that these bans would be completely unacceptable to us and would constitute major impediments to Turkey's progress towards becoming a member of the European Union.
It is unfathomable, in our understanding of democracy, that a court should simply deny numerous voters the right, after the fact, to influence the political situation in their country by casting their vote for their preferred party.
This is unacceptable in the case of the governing party, and it is unacceptable, too, in the case of the Democratic Society Party (DTP).
There are fundamental legal and democratic principles at stake which militate against such a course of action.
As regards the DTP, instead of taking the opportunity to talk to representatives of the Kurdish people and enter into dialogue, because - together with the Turks - we reject terrorism, an attempt is under way to ban this party as well.
I know that not everyone in the DTP is prepared to engage in dialogue.
In that case, an approach simply has to be made in order to develop this dialogue appropriately.
We therefore call unequivocally on all the moderate forces in Turkey to do their utmost to ensure that these two parties can continue to operate in Turkey's political landscape.
We know that this is a protracted and open-ended process, but it must have a goal, and this goal must be accession.
It is a goal which, in the European Union, we must do our utmost to achieve, in communication with our citizens.
However, Turkey too must do its utmost, by carrying out the reforms that are required.
(Applause)
