on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, in recent years all of us, myself included, have repeatedly lamented the fact that, even in the case of major legislative projects, most of the seats on the Council bench have remained empty.
We should therefore make a point of expressing our pleasure at the high-level representation of the Slovenian Presidency at this important legislative debate and at the fact that Slovenia is already entering, as it were, into the spirit of the Treaty of Lisbon, which, of course, it has just ratified.
The internal market in postal services has been a long time coming.
We are delighted that, if all goes well, this present draft of ours will help to bring the process to a successful conclusion.
The initial proposal from the Commission was, in principle, coherent and acceptable, but for us in the European Parliament the basic principle was, in many cases, too broadly applied, and we felt that major points of detail remained unresolved.
In this respect it was a good thing that, under the direction of our rapporteur, Markus Ferber, whom I warmly congratulate on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and European Democrats, our committee, acting by a very comfortable majority, was able to add numerous important elements to the Commission proposal at first reading and to interpret and flesh out its provisions.
On the financial side in particular we have added an extra option - an important one, since it ensures that a key issue is not disregarded.
We reinforced the social provisions, especially on matters such as working conditions, working hours and leave entitlements.
In particular, we introduced a temporary reciprocity clause to ensure that the Directive does not yield windfall profits by letting a few remaining monopolists expand their operations into deregulated markets.
In return we agreed to the entry into force of the Directive being postponed by two years.
We believe that the proposal was generally well balanced, and we feel vindicated by the actions of the Council, which very largely endorsed the position of the European Parliament.
We should accept that position tomorrow and share the satisfaction of the Council, the Commission and the rapporteur with the outcome.
