Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are able to adopt the goods package at first reading speaks volumes for the excellent cooperation that has taken place within the European Parliament as well as between Parliament and the Council.
This is an important legislative project, both for those involved in trade and, more especially, for consumers.
Through this package we are removing obstacles to trade that have resulted from differing technical rules in the Member States.
At the same time we are guaranteeing the quality of the products that are traded on the European market.
The new legislation will ensure that products which do not comply with EU law or which are unsafe are quickly removed from the market or do not reach the market in the first place.
Dangerous products are to be reported to the Commission without delay so that they can be taken out of circulation in all member countries.
Cooperation with countries outside the EU - one need only think of China - will be improved under the Regulation by measures such as joint programmes and exchanges of technical expertise.
Through these new provisions, we are ensuring efficient market surveillance and better scrutiny throughout Europe.
That, after all, is what really counts.
In all our discussions and negotiations we focused primarily on the consumer.
The CE mark, for example, signifies the manufacturer's compliance with European requirements for the product in question.
Now, however, importers are to bear a greater share of responsibility alongside manufacturers.
In particular, false or misleading CE marks are prohibited, and those who use them will face criminal prosecution in the Member States.
All of this protects consumers, but it also safeguards honest entrepreneurs who observe all the rules.
One of our main successes has been the preservation of the tried and tested national safety marks such as the German 'GS' symbol.
Consumers are familiar with these marks and trust them.
On Thursday we shall adopt a set of rules that promotes trade in goods in the internal market to best effect while at the same time - and this is so important - protecting consumers by means of better surveillance.
