on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, with all this focus on export growth and globalisation gains, one group seems to have been overlooked.
I refer to people living in poverty, of whom there are 78 million in the EU, including 19 million children.
Is it a matter of learning to live with this state of affairs?
Certainly not!
Young people who cannot cope with school and drop out are part of this group, as are older people who, despite having worked for decades, receive small pensions that cover only the bare necessities.
They feel marginalised, and in actual fact they are often left to struggle on their own.
The result is that daily life imposes severe mental and physical strains in the form of housing without security of tenure, problem estates, the risk of indebtedness, alcohol and drugs - a life without dignity or self-esteem.
The annual poverty reports in our Member States should set alarm bells ringing.
Last year I listened to a debate from the visitors' gallery of the German Bundestag.
The subject of the debate was the lower classes.
It gave rise to weeks of heated public debate.
That is what the victims of poverty need: they need people to be aware of them, to take them seriously, to show them how to break out of the poverty trap.
Marie Panayotopoulos-Cassiotou has drafted a very good report - I can say that on behalf of the PPE-DE Group and on a very personal level too, Marie - which gives us the green light for the designation of 2010 as the European Year for Combating Poverty and Social Exclusion.
If the European Year does not merely yield analyses of the situation but enables the endangered target groups to become actively involved and to obtain a forum through which their voices can be heard, if institutions present tangible successes instead of only announcing good intentions, if educational experts outline motivating teaching methods that have resulted in more pupils successfully completing their schooling, and if welfare benefits are identified which have demonstrably and sustainably reduced the risk of poverty, many people who still feel marginalised today will finally become aware of their rights as stakeholders in our society.
