Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we want good relations between the United States of America and the European Union.
The prerequisite for this, however, is also that the European Union speaks with one voice.
Challenges and crises in the Western Balkans, in the South Caucasus region, in the Middle East and in Afghanistan, the fight against terrorism now taking place in the media and the food crisis that is now apparent, issues of energy security, climate change, economic recession as well as issues of transparency and regulation on the financial markets - on all these issues we need one another and we must work together.
However, we also want to reinforce the parliamentary dimension by involving the US Congress and the European Parliament.
One point that is supremely important to our citizens is - and I say this in full awareness as someone who considers himself transatlantic - the closure of the Guantanamo Bay prison and all the other secret prisons in the world.
It is important that we explain to our American friends that the remaining prisoners must either be legitimately charged or else released and, if necessary, appropriately compensated.
We too can make a contribution, however, by accepting the Uighur prisoners into the European Union, thereby also helping to end this scandal as quickly as possible.
Another point that is important for the collective reputation of our common democratic values is that on the one hand we are in agreement that there is a terrorist threat, but that on the other hand we also have to highlight the fact that this debate is also taking place with constitutional funds.
This is precisely not the case with the current practice of lists of terrorist organisations both in the European Union as well as in the United States.
This issue must therefore also be put to the test as a matter of urgency.
I would once again highlight the fact that terrorism and organised crime have to be tackled on the basis of fundamental rights and common constitutional principles.
This also applies to the exchange of personal data between the United States and the European Union.
Another important point is ultimately the issue of climate change, because many aspects are affected, from food security via energy to water supplies.
This item therefore has to be given high priority at the summit.
Both partners should agree on a common approach to containing climate change.
It must be our aim to limit the increase in temperature to a maximum of two degrees with regard to pre-industrial values.
We are demanding that the industrialised countries fulfil their responsibility.
