Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to express my thanks to Mr Pitella and Mr Karas for their reports.
I share their conclusion permeating the entire report that every citizen in the European Union should have access to banking services.
Nevertheless, please allow me three comments.
Firstly, with regard to customer mobility, yes, it is our aim in a growing, fully functioning internal market to make sure that every customer also has cross-border access to banking services.
However, responsibilities are also bound up with this right.
I am therefore somewhat cautious when the demand is made here that in the event that a customer informs his bank that he wishes to switch to another we leave the risk, if he does not have his new bank account details in time, with the present bank.
This is not right!
Customers should assume responsibility for their own actions and must also assume this responsibility personally with the rights they have assumed.
We should not be toying with those who bail customers out whenever they are to blame for ending up in this dilemma.
Secondly, customer information.
I can but agree here with the previous speaker, Mr Ettl.
We still have to do this many times over in the case of comparable products in competition with each that do not have the same transparency because they are subject to different obligations to provide information.
This is not right!
I am very much in favour of customers obtaining information but it is also true here that we should not be throwing the baby out with the bath water and not inundating customers with too much information.
Customers need the necessary information to make responsible decisions themselves, but quality takes priority over quantity here.
Finally, back to the banking structures.
I agree with Mr Karas that we do in fact have different, historically developed banking structures in the individual Member States.
In one country there are only private banks, in others there are also savings banks, credit unions, state banks and more of the same.
It is not our job to reorganise the banking community.
The Member States should be doing this - if they are not already doing so.
Nor is it our job, however, to be carrying on traditions.
I think the market should decide whether the structures remain as they are or whether they should be changed.
Services, product ranges, services that individual market operators offer their customers - they should decide; we should not be making decisions centrally.
