Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is grateful for the opportunity to discuss these important issues with the European Parliament today, and I am very grateful for Mrs Frassoni's report and contribution, which contains valuable points.
I can assure you, Mrs Frassoni, that the Commission takes your points very seriously.
The European Union is a community under the rule of law and as such it is unique in the world.
Only the law can guarantee the freedoms that citizens are entitled to and only the law can shape the market economy in such a way that it works to the benefit of all.
The European Commission is the guardian of the treaties.
Its role is to ensure that Community law is being implemented everywhere and that it is correctly applied in each location.
Even the best law has no value as long as it exists only on paper.
Each committee will find, therefore, that one of its most important tasks is to ensure that our law does not consist merely of empty words.
In the treaty infringement proceedings and the European Court of Justice, we have a powerful weapon.
This weapon must be used when there is no other way to remedy violation of the law.
It is not an end in itself, however, and it could become blunt through excessive use.
The Commission does not believe that the number of treaty infringement proceedings is a measure of the seriousness and determination with which it monitors how well Community law is being observed.
Rather, the Commission believes that it is a matter of finding solutions to problems.
The real measure is how many problems relating to the application of Community law we have solved, and how quickly.
Indeed, we have critically reviewed the way we work and arrived at the following conclusions: once identified, problems must be dealt with quickly and efficiently.
Citizens and business people are entitled to speedy answers.
Therefore, Mrs Frassoni, I will go back to the Commission with what you said about rubbish in Campania and this topic will have to be discussed.
I fully agree that a rigorous, fast and determined approach is absolutely essential where Community law is being blatantly ignored.
In principle, an approach based on partnership is preferable to a confrontational one.
The Commission therefore wishes to see more dialogue and more transparency in these issues.
We also want to set clear priorities: deal with important matters first, and quickly, and do not use a sledgehammer to break a nut.
We must also make the necessary resources available.
Allow me to make one comment at this point.
If problems mount up in relation to the application of Community law to particular matters, that may be because the law itself is unclear or contradictory.
We should not assume from the outset that the Member States have a bad attitude.
As a consequence of these considerations, we took a series of steps and I would like to say from the outset that we will continue to have recourse to treaty infringement proceedings and institute them immediately when the necessary information is to hand.
However, we are suggesting a new way of working, with which we hope to obtain the necessary information more quickly.
This method is based on improving cooperation with the Member States before it gets to the stage of instituting official proceedings, except, of course - and this is very important, Mrs Frassoni - in the event that it is obvious from the start that, in all probability, a treaty is being infringed.
In such cases our first step is not to talk to the Member States, but to act.
It is not a totally new process, but a preliminary procedure in which we require additional procedures or in order to achieve a solution more quickly without instituting treaty infringement proceedings.
All enquiries and complaints are answered directly and speedily and, depending on the facts of the matter, can lead to treaty infringement proceedings.
That means that every submission is registered and processed.
If it is formulated as a complaint, or can be seen as a complaint, it is treated as a complaint and the Commission takes the appropriate steps.
We are currently testing this new method of working in a pilot phase.
Fifteen Member States are involved in the pilot project, which has been designed to ensure that we do in fact make progress.
Naturally, we will inform Parliament of the results of the pilot phase and discuss any further steps with Parliament.
All the same, we are already in a position to be able to find a solution to 90% of all problems that come to our attention without taking the matter to court.
However, we do share your opinion that this should be done more quickly.
A move to a monthly cycle of decision making, which commenced in January, should help.
This ensures faster, more efficient execution of treaty infringement proceedings.
Certainly, we are striving to make the whole process as transparent as possible while preserving the appropriate measure of confidentiality, as required of us by the European Court of Justice.
The public will have online access to regularly updated summaries of all treaty infringement proceedings currently before the court.
In the interests of transparency and legal certainty, we also need to know how the Member States are applying Community law in their respective national contexts.
Therefore, we need correlation tables - as called for in the report - that clearly show implementation status in each Member State.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe we share the same goal.
We want Community law in which EU citizens can have complete confidence.
