on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate concerns European internal policy and I believe it is right to do what the Vice-President of the Commission, Mr Frattini, has already done, and that is to take a brief look back.
2007 was a great year for European internal policy.
The opening up of the Schengen area has been a great success and we are also able to confirm to our citizens that if all the investigative authorities in Europe have access to one database system, this will not reduce security, but increase it.
Nevertheless, we must also look to the future, of course.
I read here that the SIS II was debated at the informal Council meeting in Slovenia under the Slovenian Presidency.
As I understand it, the central system is now once again being shelved.
Sections of the Commission appear to be ready, but now a new political group of specialised interior ministers is being set up to deal with the SIS II.
Their aim as regards SIS II is to make real practical progress in combating organised crime and crime in Europe.
Therefore, why do we have to delay any further here?
I am concerned that after enlargement we are falling into a black hole because everyone is satisfied that enlargement has turned out well.
I should like to point out that we in Parliament carried out an evaluation of the systems after six months and will also insist on doing so.
A second practical subject area in which I would ask for action to be taken is the issue of police cooperation.
As you know, unfortunately not all sections of the Prüm Treaty have been incorporated into Community law, but in particular essential issues of police cooperation were not adopted.
Further progress therefore needs to be made here too.
We are awaiting proposals from the Commission regarding border protection.
I am looking forward to proposals regarding the entry and exit systems because it will be very interesting to find out how many overstayers we have in Europe.
One final point: we are to have a new treaty.
I should therefore like to encourage our Committee Chairman, Mr Deprez.
We shall gain the citizens' confidence in this treaty if we haul the decisions in force in the internal policy sector out from the back rooms of the Council and bring them into the bright light of this plenary sitting.
Here people will see how decisions are made.
Therefore, please accept Parliament's outstretched hand.
We are ready to cooperate.
