Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank Mr Costa for having drawn up this report.
Reducing the administrative burden resulting from EU regulations is one of the most effective ways in which we can improve the regulatory environment for Europe's 24 million businesses.
This initiative therefore makes an important contribution towards achieving our ambitious targets as part of the partnership for 'Growth and Jobs'.
The Commission therefore welcomes Parliament's support for a rapid adoption of this urgent procedure.
This will help eliminate those unnecessary elements of the documentation required when transporting goods across national borders within the EU.
The measure in question will remove those regulations which have now become obsolete and which in fact date back to the year 1960.
According to the regulations still in force carriers are required to provide a wide range of information on tariffs, price agreements and transport arrangements as soon as the goods they are transporting cross national borders within the Community.
The simplified system being proposed by the Commission will significantly ease the administrative burden on some 300 000 European haulage companies and it has been estimated that it will save these operators a total of at least EUR 160 million a year: not a bad result at all.
As far as the procedure is concerned, the Commission acknowledges that the European Parliament has divided into two separate parts the so-called 'omnibus proposal' for a regulation of the European Parliament and the Council amending both Regulation No 11 concerning the abolition of discrimination in transport rates and conditions and Regulation (EC) No 852/2004 on the hygiene of foodstuffs.
I should like to state that the Commission will in future prefer the so-called 'omnibus approach', in other words using a single proposal to cover several measures designed to reduce any unnecessary administrative burden.
There are two reasons for this: firstly, it is clear that the aim is not to alter the substance of the legislative text in question but merely - and I repeat the word 'merely' - to remove the unnecessary bureaucratic workload, and secondly, such an approach will speed up the rate at which measures of this kind can be discharged.
The Commission therefore hopes that both legislative bodies can now make rapid progress with the second part of the proposal, namely that which deals with the hygiene of foodstuffs.
Thank you all for your attention.
