rapporteur. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me take this opportunity to thank the shadow rapporteurs for their support and valuable suggestions for the report on Central Asia.
I would also like to take this opportunity, however, specifically to thank the AFET secretariat and of course also Group colleagues, who should not be forgotten at this point and without whom this report could not have come into being.
Let me mention just a few of them: Dag Sourander, Paolo Bergamaschi, Rosemary Opacic, Andrew Woodcock, Margaret François and my colleague Rana Aydın.
We in the European Parliament are discussing the report on Central Asia for the first time this evening.
I think this is a special moment for Parliament because it reflects the importance we attach to the Central Asian region in our relations.
Central Asia is becoming an increasingly important strategic partner for the European Union.
After years of neglect the European Union has recognised the need for a coherent strategy towards the five Central Asian republics of Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan and Uzbekistan.
Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, the five republics became members of the OSCE, which means indeed that they have also undertaken to accept the values, standards and principles we share within the OSCE.
Under the German Presidency of the Council, on 20/21 June 2007 the European Council adopted a common strategy for Central Asia.
That strategy offers the five republics a share in Europe's experience and expertise in key areas, such as good governance, the rule of law, democratisation, human rights and education and training.
The European Union's dependence on external energy sources and its need for a diversified energy policy in order to guarantee security of energy supplies is a common interest of both the EU and the Central Asian republics.
In that respect we have common interests.
Basically, however, when it comes to energy sources, we are speaking of two countries, Turkmenistan and Kazakhstan.
Uzbekistan and Tajikistan, for instance, have energy problems themselves, as we have learned again in recent times.
When it comes to water, the Kyrgyz Republic is rich in energy, which is why we deliberately mentioned it.
Here we are following the proposal from the Commission and embassies in situ to set up a Water and Energy Academy that can look at the question as a whole, from the point of view also of the environment and sustainability.
It is also in the interest of the countries concerned to diversify their energy routes, because it cannot be in our interest to see a further increase in dependence on Russia.
The Partnership and Cooperation Agreements are important instruments of bilateral cooperation with those states.
The agreements with Kazakhstan, the Kyrgyz Republic and Uzbekistan have already entered into force, while the agreement with Tajikistan has not yet been ratified by all Member States.
To date we have not signed an agreement with Turkmenistan.
The reasons are well known.
They are to do with the regime of isolation that prevailed in Ashgabat until the end of 2006.
We hope - and I assume I am speaking on behalf of everybody here - that we will see a new beginning in Turkmenistan and we very much hope it will pursue its democratic reforms.
Yet we must also admit at this point that there is still a very long way to go.
We welcome the first steps that have been taken in the direction of more openness.
We hope, however, that this is just the beginning of what we would like to see.
This report sets out clear objectives and priorities for relations with those five republics.
We must combine country-specific and regional approaches.
We are concerned with democracy and the rule of law, without forgetting human rights.
We want clear benchmarks that define indicators and objectives so that our partners know what they are dealing with.
I also hope the Commission and the Council will continue to call very clearly for the release of political prisoners and for media independence.
I hope too that the governments will feel encouraged by this report to take the necessary measures in relation to human rights and in particular will release all human rights activists unconditionally and without any delay.
One thing is clear to us: we will only achieve long-term stability in the region if it goes hand in hand with the development of civil society.
Without active civil societies and the rule of law there can be no stability in the long term.
Even if we want energy security for ourselves, we must not play off democracy against it.
