Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, my thoughts inevitably turn back 17 years, when Slovenia declared its independence; the Minister of Foreign Affairs was Dimitrij Rupel.
The majority of major countries in the UN and the EU and the majority of EU Member States refused to recognise Slovenia at that time.
The Foreign Affairs Minister of one large EU Member State said that if Slovenia became independent, other countries would isolate it for 50 years.
Today, Slovenia is a recognised, respected, successful country, and a good President of the Council of the European Union.
Some of what has been said today in this House should be put into perspective by viewing it in the light of history.
I am glad that Kosovo is now independent as, after decades of oppression, the Kosovars finally have their own free, democratic state, having been oppressed for decades and more recently finding themselves the victim of genocide that was stopped only with international assistance.
I call on Serbia to realise that this is also an opportunity for the Serbian people to move forward into their European future - leaving behind the burdens of the past.
It must then renounce violence, however!
The Serbian Minister for Kosovo cannot then welcome the fact that UN guards on the border with Kosovo are attacked.
It is not appropriate then to accuse the democratically elected leaders of Kosovo of high treason instead of commencing neighbourly dialogue with these victims of genocide.
I cannot state this more clearly: it is unacceptable for Bishop Artemije of the Serbian Orthodox Church to call for war.
This is not acceptable!
This must be very clear - we as the European Union must help Serbia on the way to Europe, but Serbia must also play its part in creating a peaceful, good and neighbourly atmosphere.
Three quarters of the Members of this Parliament were and are in favour of Kosovo's sovereignty, so it is not possible to say that the European Union is divided, and I am happy that we are now entering into a good European future for the entire region.
(Applause)
