on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by taking up what Mr Schulz said.
I would emphasise once again that we are not making an honest assessment of the Lisbon Strategy if we ignore the fact that, while Europe is indeed a major winner from globalisation, the winnings are very unevenly distributed.
In addition, employment growth has by no means resolved the problem of the working poor; on the contrary, despite increased employment and increased growth, we also have increased poverty caused by job insecurity.
We in the European Parliament called explicitly in our resolution for the issue of sectoral minimum wages to be addressed by the Commission and the Council, and for the Commission to assess the results of the Lisbon Strategy differently in view of the problem of growing social marginalisation.
This poverty indicator is an integral part of our resolution, and I find it regrettable that neither the Council nor the Commission has so far responded to these decisions of the European Parliament.
(Applause)
Turning to the subject of climate and energy, quite frankly I was shocked when a German Government representative declared in Brussels, just a few days before this spring summit, that environment policy ought to steer clear of industrial and economic policy.
This pronouncement was made by a State Secretary in the German Ministry of the Environment, Mr Machnik, who is no doubt known to my German colleagues.
Germany's Environment Ministry obviously has no real understanding of what sustainability actually means.
It is hardly surprising, consequently, that the German Government continues to oppose CO2 limits on vehicles, that it is not in favour of the single market for energy as proposed by the Commission and that it is attempting to organise an alliance against the 'new definitions of emissions trading'.
I note with regret that, in these negotiations, Germany has partially forgotten what was signed and sealed at last year's spring summit.
Some of its current policies are totally at odds with the outcomes of last year's summit.
I am not certain, for example, that the new priority attached to renewable energy - which appears so uncontroversial - really is sufficient to ensure sustainability in the field of energy and the climate.
The Mediterranean Union also raises questions in my mind.
One sometimes gets the impression that, just like those major gas deals with Russia - I mean North Stream and South Stream - this Mediterranean Union is further proof that a uniform EU policy on energy and security of energy supply is simply not possible.
If the Council fails to tackle this problem, it will fall short of its obligations.
(Applause)
