on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, as the previous speaker has just shown, in the European Parliament we are still far from reaching a unanimous view on global warming.
Nor do I believe that for the time being, we will be able to reconcile the two camps: those who think that global warming is a major problem and those who repeatedly and fundamentally doubt that the problem does indeed exist in this form.
What I am sure about, however, is that there is one argument which must carry weight even with those of you who take that view.
The major challenge posed by climate change and the major challenge of securing a reliable, affordable and sustainable energy supply in Europe and other parts of the world can be mastered using the same tools.
I therefore believe that everything that has been discussed in Europe to date as a response to climate change must make sense even to the sceptics: limited resources or difficult access to energy resources, which are often located in crisis regions of the world, must be addressed with concepts based on renewable energies, energy efficiency and energy saving.
These are good instruments with which to make progress in both arenas.
Perhaps there is, after all, a possibility of reaching a consensus.
As to the major debate about adaptation to climate change which we conducted in committee, there does appear to be broad agreement, and that makes me somewhat mistrustful.
To my mind, the question is this: why do we find it so easy to agree on instruments for adaptation and yet so difficult to agree on ways of actually combating global warming?
I am not really convinced that adaptation measures are going to help us very much in Europe.
In my view, they distract attention in some ways from the fact that the wrong political strategies and wrong development and industry strategies are still being pursued and are exacerbating the problems we face as a result of global warming.
In other words, we have completely inappropriate settlement policies, the wrong agricultural policy, the wrong approach to the management of water resources, and poor protection of biosystems.
This all exacerbates the problems we face while we sit here and argue over adaptation.
I think that when viewed in relation to the instruments which we are using to combat climate change, these adaptation measures always need to be viewed with a critical eye.
I would like to emphasise one other point, namely the amendments we have tabled to Mr Sacconi's report today.
In our amendments, we have concentrated to a very great extent on soil protection.
I hope that this will be supported, for I believe that this is a fundamental problem which has not yet been adequately addressed at European level.
