Mr President, what I want from the European Council tomorrow is some clear self-criticism: self-criticism for its abject failure to communicate and inform the people about this new European treaty.
It really is staggering that the governments negotiate treaties and even hold elaborate signing ceremonies, and then go back to their capitals and give them no further thought.
That is a major cause of the furore that we have experienced in the past and are now facing with Ireland.
(Applause)
I want to see some lessons learned: the Council must finally abandon its blocking tactics and initiate a joint communication or PR strategy with the Commission and Parliament so that we can genuinely take citizens with us on our journey to Europe instead of leaving them by the wayside.
At present, these institutions are behaving like parents who bring a child into the world and then dump it in the gutter and forget about it.
That is simply unacceptable.
We must now take the consequences, and that means forging a common communication and information policy, which is also part of the democratic process.
That is the basis for democracy, so that people understand what Europe is about and see that they are part of the process.
I will gladly listen to the messages sent by the people of Ireland, but when Mrs Sinnott tells us, as she did yesterday, that a majority of voters in one town voted against the Treaty of Lisbon because a waste incineration plant is being built there and we have a European law which calls for the incineration of waste, then I really do wonder what this has to do with the Treaty of Lisbon.
We have heard many such arguments, and we have to be honest about it: not all of them are relevant and deserve to be considered.
We need to think about a new formula for the ratification of European treaties.
Every country must be able to express its views, and I hope that this afternoon, the House of Lords will ratify the Treaty and send out a clear signal that the process is continuing.
