Mr President, because of globalisation our living and working conditions are changing so rapidly that many citizens are losing track of things.
They feel swamped and insecure.
The guidelines of the Lisbon Strategy for Growth and Jobs need to be clearly visible to them: competitive jobs, equal opportunities and social cohesion.
The flexicurity concept is still not sufficiently understood.
Not only do employees have to become more flexible in their own interests in order to improve their employability, but enterprises also have to become more flexible by developing new marketing strategies and innovative products and capturing market niches, among other things.
At the same time, employees need efficient social security systems to ensure that they are integrated rather than excluded.
Their work should be rewarded appropriately according to the sector and region by agreements between the social partners, not by government intervention.
The aim of European employment policy is both to provide more people with jobs and to create higher quality jobs.
At the same time there has to be investment in education and training in order to ensure that the concept of lifelong learning is genuinely sustained and includes underperformers.
It must be made clear that both the ESF as well as the European Regional Development Fund and the new Globalisation adjustment Fund must directly benefit those threatened or affected by unemployment.
They should be better prepared for change and be able to enter new spheres of work.
We shall also be measured by whether we have managed to keep older employees in work processes for longer, instead of shunting them into early retirement.
They are highly motivated, able to work under pressure and have know-how aplenty.
Best practices should demonstrate how young and old cooperate through teamwork and how both sides benefit.
The guidelines for employment policy in this very good report will be accepted above all if the subsidiarity principle is consistently maintained.
Mrs Van Lancker is right: the Member States have to prove that they are taking part in this, and then confidence in our social market model will increase.
