Mr President, the two reports we are discussing are a clear sign of the advanced stage the militarisation of the European Union has reached.
I wish to address several aspects, for example the very close EU-NATO cooperation, which is absolutely fatal.
NATO is also an alliance for waging war and we are opposed to this close cooperation between the European Union and NATO.
Thank you again for clarifying that the Lisbon Treaty will bring fundamental changes in the military area.
That is an essential reason why we are against the Lisbon Treaty and I would like to point out that it has not yet been ratified and that I am hoping for a 'no' in Ireland on 12 June.
Part of the Lisbon Treaty - which also appears in Mr Kuhne's report - is that an independent EU military budget, known as the start-up fund, should be created.
We think this creates a whole host of problems.
Parliamentary scrutiny of ESDP missions is not guaranteed.
EU Battle Groups are supposed to be able to be deployed within 5-30 days and the German Bundestag cannot be involved within that timeframe.
It was not possible to achieve agreement on parliamentary scrutiny between all groups, partly because we demanded that all groups, including the smaller ones, should receive the appropriate information.
Apparently this Parliament does not want that.
The report calls for further armament projects.
We believe that this is wrong.
Previous EU missions must first be thoroughly evaluated.
This is long overdue.
French soldiers who were part of Operation Artemis in Congo used torture.
The operation in Chad is a disaster and the EULEX mission in Kosovo - supposedly a rule of law mission - has no legal basis.
The two reports are heading in completely in the wrong direction.
Therefore, we as a group have put forward a minority opinion.
It has now become evident what the French Presidency plans to do in the military realm.
There will be a further push for militarisation; marine and air Battle Groups have already been mentioned.
We do not want a military European Union.
We do not want a military alliance.
We want a civil European Union.
For these reasons, we say a definite 'no' to these two reports.
