Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I want to give my views on two of the priority points, namely our rapporteur's criticism that EU budgeting lacks transparency, and the Commission's staff policy.
As rapporteur on the budget I am asking the Commission to address the point of budgetary transparency and to put forward proposals for the next planned reform of the budgetary system.
The information contained in the actual budget is absolutely inadequate and these lists of numbers are actually no use to us at all.
So far the Commission has been producing a lot of accompanying documents, which only devalues the budget itself.
Why not include more information within the budget itself from the outset, which would remove the need for some of the reports that have been requested and please both the Commission and Parliament.
I will work on those foundations for the next budgetary reform and would ask my fellow Members, even at this stage, to support the preliminary activities, because I would like to have several studies carried out on the subject.
My second point is this: in its December resolution on the 2007 budget, Parliament called for a progress report on staff screening, wanting it by 30 April 2008.
I assume we will receive that report in a few days' time.
This screening that Parliament called for has now turned into one of the Barroso Commission's major success stories.
The President of the Commission is setting himself up as a reformer, but he can only continue to be taken as a reformer if he draws conclusions from the screening before the end of this Commission's term.
That means he must undertake a critical review of decentralisation and take the first steps in that direction.
He owes that not only to the taxpayer and to Parliament but also to his staff, which is currently wasting its time and skills on far too much in-house administration and bureaucracy.
The Commission also owes it to itself, as given the challenges facing the EU and the important management tasks it is undertaking, we believe that - also in view of the 2009 budget, which as you know does not provide for any new items - it can succeed with those tasks only if it also embarks on the appropriate measures and changes within the administration.
