Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have to combat tax evasion.
If we do not do this, the basis of our democratic society may erode.
Every nation has the right to enact regulations to ensure that taxes are imposed efficiently with the assent of the people's representatives.
Individual measures in this sector, however, frequently do not have the desired effect nationally.
International cooperation is therefore required between the tax authorities, involving the exchange of information on bank accounts.
The Finance Ministers of the 27 Member States are working together on this at EU level.
Some measures have already been introduced at European level.
Council Directive 2003/48/EC on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments is of particular note here.
In addition, the European Union has concluded agreements with third countries, including Liechtenstein, which pursue the same aim as this Directive.
These agreements guarantee that interest received and paid to EU citizens in these third countries is liable either to income tax in their own Member State or to deduction at source.
Deduction at source can be reimbursed to an individual liable to tax in their Member State of permanent residence if the corresponding income is disclosed for tax purposes.
The Economic and Financial Affairs Council carried out an exchange of views on the application of the Directive on taxation of savings income in the form of interest payments on 4 March 2008.
As a result of the debate, the Ministers asked the Commission to push ahead with work on a report on the implementation of the Directive since it entered into force on 1 July 2005.
The report should address the definition of the terms 'payment of interest' and 'beneficial owners'.
The question rightly being asked here is to what extent systems for exchanging information are compatible with the protection of personal data.
It may be pointed out in this context that the Community rules on data protection, which also apply in the European Economic Area, give Member States the opportunity to take legislative action.
This action can restrict those concerned in some of their rights, such as the right of access or the right to information, if this is necessary for the protection of important financial or economic interests of the European Union or of a Member State.
This also applies to the areas of finance, budgets and taxation.
Comparable restrictions also apply to the effective implementation of the Third Money Laundering Directive.
The Member States must at all events reasonably ensure that their competent bodies comply with the appropriate EU regulations and national data protection regulations when supplying and processing personal data.
A balance has to be found here between the lawful pursuit of aims in terms of taxation policy and the protection of privacy.
