Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my colleague Commissioner Dimas, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Sartori, for her thorough work on this difficult proposal.
Her hard work made agreement with the Council possible at first reading, which the Commission is delighted about.
Once again, we are dealing with chemicals and the protection of people and the environment from their potentially dangerous effects.
Chemicals are not purely a European problem, or a European monopoly.
They are produced, traded and used throughout the world, and the risks associated with the use of chemicals are the same irrespective of location.
Therefore, it stands to reason that we have endeavoured to achieve a worldwide system to describe and label these hazards.
The legislation we are going to adopt today creates the basis for globally uniform environmental, health and safety information relating to potentially dangerous chemicals.
Health and environmental protection will become transparent and comparable worldwide only when harmonised standards of measurement are used to determine and label the dangers posed by chemicals.
We must not underestimate the economic advantages either.
European enterprises will save money because they will not need to evaluate chemical hazard procedures that apply in different countries according to different criteria and different systems.
Professional users of chemicals and consumers throughout the world will also benefit from this harmonisation.
People who use chemicals will no longer have to become familiar with several different systems in order to know what level of threat a chemical may pose.
The compromise presented by the rapporteur is balanced and takes particular account of issues such as workability and the clarity of the provisions.
Although the amendments proposed by co-legislators are numerous, they do not alter the underlying principles or the basic structure of the original proposal by the Commission in any significant way.
Therefore, the Commission is able to go along with these proposals.
Even when we were preparing the proposal, the Commission was concerned to leave the current very high level of protection of human health and the environment untouched.
I am very pleased that Parliament and the Council share our basic view on this.
The close, constructive cooperation between Parliament, the Council and the Commission greatly benefitted the negotiation process and, as I have already said, this means that we can accept all the compromises that Mrs Sartori has suggested.
