on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, let me also begin with a word of thanks to our rapporteurs Mrs Trautmann, Mr Harbour, Mrs del Castillo and Mrs Toia and to all the shadow rapporteurs both for the good work performed by everyone and for their fruitful cooperation with those who were less closely involved with this dossier.
The last legal framework for market liberalisation dates from 2002.
The importance of the market has already been emphasised today.
After all, if I may remind you of a statistic, a turnover of more than EUR 300 billion has been achieved by the telecommunications sector in Europe alone.
Thousands of jobs depend on this market, and so it is important that we continue to develop the legal framework which has stood the test since 2002 in such a way that new chapters can be added to this European success story.
To this end, of course, we must first and foremost adapt our legal framework to take account of new technological developments.
In the brief time that I, too, have been allocated, let me highlight two points that are of particular importance to me personally.
The first is investment in high-tech infrastructure in Europe.
We in Europe face the formidable challenge of investing as much as possible as quickly as possible in these new high-speed broadband networks.
That is one of the keys to a competitive Europe.
We must create the legal conditions in which these investments will bear fruit.
On the other hand, we must not create new monopolies and closed markets.
In committee, we ensured that the risk involved in creating the new networks would be fairly distributed and that regulators would have to take this risk-sharing into consideration in future.
In addition, we devoted a great deal of attention to the subject of frequency policy.
We favour a more flexible frequency policy in Europe.
I believe a good way can be found to share out the digital dividend so as to take account of broadcasters' legitimate interests while providing as much flexibility as possible for new services too.
