on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner Dimas, do you still remember Bali?
I am sure Mr Dimas does.
That is where the European Union virtually epitomised the international approach to combating climate change, where it stood for international solidarity and sustainability.
It was a wonderful feeling.
I was often proud of you, Mr Dimas.
I was even proud of the German Environment Minister.
It reminded me that the European Union is capable of regaining the support of its citizens by leading a truly efficient campaign against global climate change.
Public approval, however, is very easily squandered, Mr Barroso, especially when there is an ostensible gulf between words and deeds.
I have been reading a lot about the debates in the Commission.
Unless you persevere with a hard line in your proposals on emissions trading, I believe you will destroy a very important instrument.
If clean coal remains dominant and a covert campaign is waged for nuclear power, if the main focus is on biofuels rather than a different transport policy, if energy efficiency - the priority of priorities, Mr Piebalgs - is increasingly neglected, we shall remain helpless in the face of climate change.
(Applause)
The onslaughts mounted by European industry against the proposals are intolerable.
After all, it is the free market that has caused this climate problem.
It was not China and India that managed their resources wastefully and emitted far too much CO2 - it was us.
The free market will not solve the problem.
The free market must be regulated for the sake of protecting the climate.
It goes without saying, given the associated burdens, that we shall have to talk about external protection.
We are prepared to do that.
We believe it would take ambitious proposals at the European level for us to make any headway in international negotiations on any issue, including external protection.
We cannot go to Poznań with weak instruments.
In Poznań and Copenhagen we shall have to take the lead again.
I look forward to cooperating closely with you, Mr Dimas.
(Applause)
