Mr President, like Mr Solana before me, I also believe that this debate has demonstrated a broad consensus in the fundamental orientation of the European Foreign and Security Policy, and I am very glad about that.
I would like to comment briefly on three points.
Firstly, to come back to the question of the definition of security: I do not believe that we are very far apart at all.
None of the major global problems that we will have to tackle now and in the near future is unrelated to the dimension of security policy.
Even the crisis in the financial markets has a security policy dimension, as do the food and commodities situations, not forgetting the usual concerns.
Nevertheless, there is no risk of our foreign policy becoming militarised or that the European Union will be militarised, because the military answer to these risks is an option only in the rarest of cases.
If it is used at all, then it will usually only be to create a secure environment in which the real task can be achieved, and this will be of a political nature and concern civil society.
However, we must be in a position to do both.
We must be prepared for both, and that is exactly the direction that European policy is going in.
Furthermore, we are uniquely predestined to deal with crises in the world because we have a wide range of instruments available to implement our strategies.
The European Union can draw not only on the CFSP and the ESDP, but also on the different Community instruments, such as the instruments for stability and development cooperation generally, as well as humanitarian aid and the Civil Protection Mechanism.
We have to ensure that we always select the correct instruments and that there will be logical interaction between the various parties involved.
There can be no doubt that one of the most important advantages of the Treaty of Lisbon - when it enters into force - is that this harmonious, effective interaction is made a great deal easier.
In closing, let me say in summary that what really matters here is our shared political will to make use of our opportunities.
The opportunities are there; all we have to do is want to use them.
We must use them in such a way that we are all pulling together.
The reality is that, in today's circumstances, we have no choice.
We simply cannot afford to act inconsistently or to apply funds inefficiently.
Rather, we must pool and concentrate our resources and instruments if we want to achieve a common, credible and coherent EU foreign policy.
Only then will we be equal to the challenge and able to meet the valid expectations of our citizens and partners.
Thank you very much.
