Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, I should like to return to last year's spring summit.
It was an extremely successful summit, under Angela Merkel, and it is now a matter of transposing into legislation the decisions reached on 7 March last year.
However, legislation should not be punitive; it should motivate our people and our firms to innovate and ultimately achieve greater sustainability.
It would appear from the current debate that the CO2 debate is the most important issue.
I believe that the real issue goes much deeper: it is about sustainability.
How should we manage our resources in the long term?
The key point, in my opinion, is that we must run our economy using fewer fossil resources in the future.
Commissioner, we are bound to get into an argument here because we cannot accept everything you have proposed.
On the rules for vehicles, for instance, I dislike the fact that we already know how much someone will be fined, but we know nothing yet about the rules they must comply with.
I learned the opposite from my parents: first you must know the rules and then sanctions have to be found.
It is important that this procedure be followed in future.
If there are cross-border CO2 problems with the ETS, which I really do not dispute, then I suggest that we find more shoulders to bear this burden, such as by introducing a sensible waste policy throughout Europe.
I should like to share with you a very big personal concern of mine, Mr Barroso and Mr Verheugen: you are the guardians of the law!
It is absolutely pointless for us to shake hands here and agree on doing something or other, and then for it not to be implemented at the end of the day.
Instead, let us do less!
What we do, however, must be done better.
Therefore, Commissioner and President of the Commission, exercise your mandate not by punishing the conscientious but by encouraging those who are rather slower off the mark to finally meet the Kyoto targets.
A glance at the internet will show exactly who I mean.
Good luck; we shall be keeping an eye on you.
