Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Member States are and remain responsible for formulating and implementing economic policy.
That means the Lisbon Strategy can only be implemented by targeted measures in the Member States.
There is no such thing as a European economic policy defined centrally in Brussels.
That is precisely why the basic features of economic policy are so important.
They are the cornerstone of the coordination of economic strategies by Member States and they constitute a point of reference designed to ensure that Member States move in the right direction by taking the necessary reforms and then remain on the right road.
They enshrine the EU's core economic principles: open markets, fair competition, innovative private entrepreneurship without state regulation.
Unfortunately, the Member States do not always implement the integrated guidelines for growth and jobs, and at times only do so rather timidly.
Specifically with a view to meeting the challenges of globalisation, the European Union must adhere to its core principles, as the only way to safeguard its competitiveness in the long term.
Unfortunately we have recently seen more examples of what I would term creative compartmentalisation.
For example - and I am saying this to Mrs Harms, for her information - by introducing excessively high minimum wages, the Deutsche Post, the German Post Office, is keeping any competitors away from the officially liberalised market.
The current turbulence on the financial markets also shows that enterprises are all too quick to turn to the State for help if they run into difficulties.
Rescuing private financial institutions such as Northern Rock in the UK or IKB in Germany with the help of the taxpayer's money is an unacceptable mistake in terms of the rules of economic policy.
The banks' profits stay in the hands of the shareholders and excessive bonuses are paid to a small number of employees, while the losses are nationalised.
That kind of procedure undermines people's trust in the social market economy system.
It is the State's job to support the market by passing the appropriate framework legislation, but it is the job of the market to drive the economy forward and ensure that Europe remains competitive.
