on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, three points from the present discussion stick in my mind.
The first is the desire expressed by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Bertrand, to make 2008 the year when the European social model is relaunched.
Then there are the words spoken by Commissioner Špidla, who said that the social package met public expectations within the European Union, and lastly there is your statement, Mr Schulz, that Europe is governed by the Right.
I believe that all three statements require critical analysis.
Firstly, how can the representative of the French Presidency declare the aim of making 2008 the comeback year for the social model when the French Government declined even to refer to social policy as a priority of its Presidency?
In my view, the social package is far from meeting people's expectations, because it simply does nothing at all to bridge the social divides in Europe and does not even take any action to halt the widening of these divisions, to freeze the situation as it now stands.
The process is set to continue in spite of the social package.
Lastly, Mr Schulz, I can happily give you a taste of your own medicine.
It was back in the 1990s, when Socialist governments were in power, that this development took root.
We should have expected you to say that, in the wake of Lisbon, there will be a new construct in 2010, a new strategy which will focus sharply on protection of the European social model and which will reorder our priorities once more.
As for the social package itself, it does not come up to expectations.
It is high time we broke out of the situation in which the decline in proper employment is accompanied by a growing number of jobs from which people cannot earn their livelihood.
We must finally stop using mere job numbers as our criterion in the European Union and focus instead on jobs that pay a decent wage.
This social package contains no announcement of the inclusion, wherever necessary, of a social progress clause in all European treaties.
Nor is there any answer to the question whether those who play an important part in defending social rights within the European Union are to be given more instruments and more powers in the European Works Council Directive.
The proposal merely invokes the status quo and maintains the present line with no additions.
We reject this package as an excessively abstract and misguided approach.
In their subsequent contributions to this debate, members of my group will be commenting on the individual components of the proposal.
