Madam President, Commissioner, plant protection products are being tested and the statistics are part of a package that also contains the Regulation on authorisation of pesticides and the Directive on the sustainable use of pesticides.
The aim of the entire package is to keep the effects of plant protection products on both human health and the environment to a minimum.
The pressure of competition on the internal market and the cross-border environmental aspects require a common approach here.
The access to our markets by foodstuffs from across the world, however, also makes it clear that obligations have to be appropriate in order to be effective.
It is of no help to anybody if our fruit, vegetables and meat come only from third countries, because obligations render production too difficult here.
We in Europe have no influence on foodstuffs from third countries.
The only possibility is to determine the maximum residual quantities and we are not yet properly set up to do this, let alone ready for a pesticide passport.
It is right to keep records and statistics on the sale of pesticides for monitoring the flows and developments of plant protection.
The professed aim in doing so is to reduce the risk of pests.
Data collection must guarantee comparability and obligations to submit a report must be kept to a minimum.
The recording of substance flows clearly overshoots the mark here, since it is not yet certain whether a plant protection product, a biocide or perhaps even a drug is produced from a given substance.
Biocides must be considered separately and here we await the Commission's proposal on the authorisation and use of biocides.
Only then will it be possible to consider the statistics that are still needed.
The illegal use of plant protection products must be more heavily scrutinised.
To do this, we need increased monitoring of the existing law.
In my opinion statistics do not help.
Any party that violates the law, Mr Staes, is not recorded in the statistics either.
