rapporteur. - Madam President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, permit me to make just a few remarks.
Firstly, I should be happier if those Members who delivered impassioned speeches for the whole world to hear would at least stay in the chamber for the rest of the debate.
That did rather disappoint me, I must say.
I am referring specifically to Members such as Mrs Lichtenberger.
Secondly, I must point out that we are talking here about liberalisation and not privatisation.
The proprietary structure of existing postal services does not interest the European Union and is not mentioned in this directive.
Thirdly, let me say that, 500 years ago when the first postal services were created, it was private undertakings that provided postal services.
Not until later did governments decide they could do it better.
So let us have no distortions of history please.
Fourthly, I should like to remind the House that government monopolies are also abused.
I am glad that Mrs Zimmer drew attention to that problem.
In point of fact, she comes from a region in which the state most certainly abused its postal monopoly until 1990, to the detriment of innocent people.
This is another point that needs to be made forcefully in the present debate.
Let me get one thing straight: we did not forget blind people in this legislation.
They are included, but they are included in a way that accords with the spirit of this directive.
Through its provisions, the European Union is telling the Member States that they are responsible for the universal service and for funding the fulfilment of universal-service obligations, that they are responsible, through licensing and authorisation procedures, for ensuring that certain services, such as postal services for blind people, can be maintained in the long term.
I am very grateful to the Commissioner for his announcement that the Commission intends to give consideration to this matter in its report under Article 23 of the Directive.
We have not forgotten anything; we have not forgotten blind people.
Nevertheless, I do wonder whether blind people should have free access, guaranteed by European legislation, and wheelchair users should not.
That is something else to ponder.
