on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only say how glad I am, Commissioner, that you are finally bringing European social policy out of its holding pattern.
It is high time this happened.
After all, it was clear that negotiations between the unions and the Federation of European Employers were doomed to failure when one side categorically refused any revision.
The delaying of this key statutory project by the Commission leaves people with the impression that the Commission is pressing ahead with an exclusively liberal model of the internal market and is doing nothing for the social European model.
It is not enough just to talk about a social Europe; people want to see action on the ground.
It has been clear for a long time that the minimum number of 1 000 employees is far too high to be able to represent employees sufficiently in the ever-changing company management situation throughout Europe.
It is also clear that European works councils cannot play their representative role properly if they are informed too late about mergers or the sale or partial sale of undertakings.
If, on the one hand, the Commission is convinced that the Danish flexicurity model is so eminently suited to the European employment strategy, then, naturally, it must also ensure that the preconditions are created at European level to support the Danish employment market model, by which I mean effective employee representation.
Then the Commission must also strengthen the rights of the unions within the framework of the revised Works Council Directive.
Moreover, the Commission should, as a result of the European Transparency Initiative and the Corporate Governance Codex, ensure that all companies covered by the Works Council Directive also form European works councils.
I can speak only about my own country: of the companies with headquarters in Germany that are supposed to have established works councils, only 30% have done so.
The evasion of European employment law in practice must bring consequences!
This is a real challenge for the Commission.
