Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's consumer strategy encompasses various thematic areas, in which we very largely support its position.
We support you too, Mrs Kuneva, in your personal commitment to the completion of the single market and your particular focus on consumers and their role in the internal market.
There are various areas of common ground.
Reference has already been made to the aim of strengthening the European Consumer Centres and the Solvit system.
That aim enjoys cross-party support.
We also acknowledge the need for a horizontal approach to consumer policy but regret the weak emphasis on the law of contract.
We must take care that contract law does not cause our proposals to fray at the edges so that we end up with patchwork legislation.
This evening's vote in committee showed that consumers trust the law if they are fairly sure that they know it.
If time limits vary from one jurisdiction to another, consumer confidence will wane quite considerably.
We therefore need the common reference framework, because we need uniform standards in order to build consumer confidence.
The same applies to collective redress.
We have heard that various groups have adopted diverse positions.
The position of the PPE-DE Group is quite clear: we concur with the analysis that there are certain weak points where consumer interests are less well protected, especially with regard to cross-border transactions.
We look in vain, however, for an analysis of the reasons why these weak points exist, and no one in the chamber this evening has offered any explanation.
We have been promised studies.
We shall read them very carefully, page by page.
If these studies only analyse the legal position, however, and not the differences between the Member States in terms of the enforcement of their own laws, these studies will bring us no further forward at the end of the day.
May I therefore say to you, Mrs Kuneva, that we are wide open to real progress and take a very constructive attitude to the enforcement of existing rights but that these consumer rights cannot be more effectively enforced unless they ultimately work properly in practice.
In Germany we have the Capital Investors' Test Cases Act, under which numerous shareholders have brought a group action against Deutsche Telekom; it has become evident in the course of these proceedings that the theory and practice of collective redress are often poles apart.
