Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I believe that it is perfectly clear, and it has also been clearly stated in the various speeches, that the European Union and the United States of America can together contribute as nobody else can towards peace and freedom in the world on the basis of their values.
We do, however, know that we sometimes have different views.
If we also find American unilateralism very unpleasant at times, this unilateralism is also partly rooted in our own weakness.
That is why a better European policy in relation to the United States, inner strength and one voice in foreign and security policy are conditions for creating a genuine partnership.
With the Transatlantic Economic Council we now have an instrument for consolidating our common interests in a specific area.
For this reason it makes me very sad that things are already threatening to collapse on the chicken issue, that the President of the United States is having to make telephone calls on account of the chicken issue and that we are not showing a certain willingness to compromise on this issue either.
We have to consider whether or not a lot of things have been exaggerated here and we are therefore in a position to create a basis for the development of a transatlantic market, enabling us to determine our common interests in the world, implement standards and - as Mr Elles has rightly said - include the Parliaments in this.
Commissioner Verheugen has already mentioned that legislation in many sectors is already affected, which is why the Parliaments on both sides have to be included pre-emptively in order to bring the situation under control and implement these standards together in the world.
If we were to succeed in this and if we are able to maintain this momentum beyond this year's elections in the United States and next year's elections in the European Union, we will perhaps have created the basis for understanding that climate change, organised crime, migration and much else can only be tackled together in the interests of a better world.
This is why we should be working more closely together with our American friends.
