Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what are we actually doing here?
We are dealing with a matter for which we have no competence.
This Green Paper on urban mobility was based on an manufactured competence, as the Commission has admitted in private.
I was told that because of the climate debate and because 80% of Europeans live in towns, the Commission has now declared itself competent in this area.
Goodness me, I would be just as justified in saying that 80% of Europeans live in a family or once lived in a family.
So let us now take family policy in hand.
That would be an equally manufactured competence and impossible to justify.
With regard to urban mobility, the only thing that can be promoted at European level is the exchange of good practice, nothing else.
To adopt legislative measures here would equate to a breach of the principle of subsidiarity.
We may assume that the local authorities themselves are keen to deal with their transport problems, because those problems are linked to the way the economy works and to internal, urban trade.
At the same time it is, of course, a question of the quality of life of the town-dwellers, who might otherwise leave town.
The problems facing our towns may be similar, but they simply are not identical.
That is why we need local actors to take decisions tailored to their area.
Urban transport policy must be decided and formulated locally and the local authorities must be in charge of planning.
I would warn Members against calling for legislative measures in this report or possibly interpreting the text as including such measures after the event.
I also warn against creating even more mountains of data and perhaps even more red tape.
Establishing a European platform for urban mobility would certainly do that.
No doubt we would then end up with yet another European agency, which would produce even more paper and, of course, also cost a good deal of money.
That is the way to set the citizens against Europe.
We cannot afford that.
I ask you to ensure that we do not end up with that situation.
