on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I believe I am speaking on behalf of my group when I say that we had excellent cooperation with the rapporteur.
We cooperated very closely, as Mr Reul has just said.
Nonetheless, we have to ask why it is so urgent to take a decision, why it has to be taken now and, in particular, before the end of the year.
We would have been very happy to see the Lisbon Treaty rules apply here, such as judicial review, as also proper participation in the sense of codecision with the European Parliament.
As regards the data protection aspect that was addressed here, Pr端m has its own data protection rules, and then there are the implementing rules and the treaty rules.
Indeed Mrs D端hrkop D端hrkop also noted the need for a framework decision in the third pillar.
If we take a careful look at the categories of data regulated by the Pr端m Treaty, we see that it is more than necessary to have framework legislation on the matter.
We must also ask why so-called special categories of data are included, such as data providing information on sexual orientation, health, political and union activities, and religious belief.
That goes far beyond the basic data needed in relation to organised crime.
There are restrictions on the use of that data yet it remains incredible that it can be used at all.
In the case of DNA data, we strongly support the rapporteur's view that - if that data is necessary and if it can be exchanged - it must be clearly restricted and used only for the purpose for which it was intended.
Furthermore, it must be made clear that Member States which do not have national DNA databases are not obliged to establish them.
I want to finish by saying that it would be very sensible - as personal exchanges of views with police authorities have brought to light - if, instead of concentrating on legislative measures, we financed programmes to assist the exchange of personnel between police forces.
That would be sure to improve cooperation in the Union.
It is astonishing that the funding has not yet been clarified given that the decision is to be taken very soon.
Before spending money, people should know how much is to be spent, before taking a decision people should know how much it costs.
