Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, unlike the speakers from the Socialist Group I wish to commend the Commission for not having hastily altered its economic policy guidelines in these times of global uncertainty caused by the financial crisis.
This process forms an integral part of the post-Lisbon Strategy.
I wish to explicitly commend the Commission, because it is right.
The shortcomings in fact lie in implementation by the Member States, and the President of the Council should concentrate on these shortcomings in the Member States and not on what changes the Commission can make.
That is the problem.
When Mr Bullmann talks about a 'policy-blocking cartel', his criticism is completely unjustified.
Secondly, the opportunities of globalisation should be exploited and the risks minimised.
Mr Schulz said that poverty has increased.
That is just an illusion!
Europe is a model of prosperity!
Prosperity in Europe has risen; its distribution has changed.
History has taught us, however, what becomes of societies where there are no differences in distribution.
There has to be a certain difference in distribution to stimulate modernisation and dynamism.
That is surely undeniable.
Thirdly, on the subject of cutting red tape, not enough has happened in that respect.
We have a High Level Group, but nothing is heard of it any more.
Is it still functioning?
What are its interim findings?
When can we expect any?
We should like to know before the European elections.
My final point relates to finance market stability.
It is indeed true that the greed in the finance market is greater than the fear of disruption, and the Commission needs to take action in this regard.
It has already announced some plans.
On the subject of climate change, here, too, the Commission's primary duty is to persuade the Member States at the summit to abide by their earlier goals.
Certain Member States have in fact emitted far more CO2 than was ever authorised.
How can we effectively introduce new measures unless the sinners of today and past years are punished?
