Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course, I too would like to wish Mr Bonde personally all the best for the future.
Nonetheless, I think it is rather a pity that he felt compelled to repeat his frequent comments about the institutions during this important debate on Latin America, because the subject of Latin America is important in itself.
That is borne out by the figures quoted by Mr Schulz.
One third of the members of the United Nations will be meeting in Lima.
Between us, we represent a billion people and if we can reach agreement, we can have a positive influence on the world's development.
In light of globalisation and the challenges we face, notably in relation to China or indeed other countries, it is essential for Latin America and Europe to work together.
Climate change will be an important topic, and the resolutions rightly state that it is the poor who will be hardest hit by climate change.
I can speak from experience here: I myself am involved in the work of a small NGO in Central America, and what the people suffered there as a result of Hurricane Mitch and Hurricane Stan is just a small foretaste of what we can expect if we do not get climate change under control.
It is good that we agree on so many points here.
There are some points, however, on which we do not yet agree.
Here in the House, we voted by a large majority in favour of the inclusion of aviation in emissions trading.
Vice-President Barrot is aware of this and has expressed himself in very critical terms on this subject.
The rest of the world has attempted to block this move via the ICAO, and unfortunately that includes Latin America.
I think this must be a topic for discussion in Lima.
If we want to work together to combat climate change, the Latin American countries must also play a constructive role.
Finally, may I say a few words about Cuba.
Mr Schulz has said that we should not pursue the same policy as Mr Bush, but we have never done that.
We have never applied the kind of economic sanctions - sanctions that affect the Cuban people - that America has imposed.
What we have done, in the past, is to make it a priority to ensure that our partners, the democratic opposition, feature in the dialogue.
Oswaldo Payá and the Damas de Blanco have been awarded the Sakharov Prize and we cannot simply revert to 'business as usual' if the Damas de Blanco have still not been able to receive it and, as occurred only last weekend, some of them have been arrested again.
We should not forget about our partners in the dialogue with Cuba.
