on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today is a good day for Europe.
We are giving the green light to one of the most important EU projects - the Galileo satellite navigation system.
Like the previous speaker, I would also like to begin by saying a sincere thank you, thank you to our rapporteur, Mrs Barsi-Pataky, and to the Members of the Committee on Budgets and of the Committee on Transport and Tourism for their excellent cooperation.
I think that as Parliament we have worked very well together on this dossier and, together with the Council and the Commission, have achieved a really good result.
Whether we need a European satellite navigation system has been discussed on many occasions.
Mrs Jensen has been addressing this.
We still have the American GPS, the Russians have GLONASS, and the Chinese are setting something up.
This does indeed show that we also have to invest our own European satellite navigation system.
We must have this technology in Europe.
We need the know-how in order to build systems such as these independently in Europe and we also have to do something for the owners of our medium-sized enterprises, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which will then, if the infrastructure has been set up, benefit from this by developing the applications in many sectors, to which we perhaps do not give much thought at all today: in the logistics sector, in the road haulage sector, in maritime, rail and air transport and in the security field.
There are so many applications and I hope that we have done some good preparatory work today on behalf of the owners of our medium-sized enterprises.
Galileo has a long history.
I do not want to repeat it; I would merely like to emphasise that Parliament is backing the Galileo project all the way.
Last year we secured the funding on the European tax revenue and with tomorrow's vote we shall be making an important contribution to ensuring that the project management runs smoothly here, that the management process is transparent in design and that we as Parliament, as co-legislators in Europe, are involved in the further development and management of this project.
