Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we had all agreed that this was about better prices, more investment in transmission networks and cross-border connections to create more competition and a market that is not so much controlled by one or a few companies.
Then, when weighing up the facts, we found that those provided by the Commission do not add up at all.
There is no evidence, no facts to prove that ownership unbundling leads to better prices and greater investment.
It is not true - or can you tell me why prices are higher in the United Kingdom?
Is there more investment in Spain?
Is there less, or more, competition there than in other countries?
The facts show conclusively that there is no one-size-fits-all solution.
The sensible thing to do, therefore, is to seek a compromise whereby Member States that wish to achieve this goal - which must be achieved - by taking a different route are free to do so.
That is the background to the attempt at a third option, a third way.
Incidentally, it is interesting that we in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy have moved some way on this over the last few months.
There are other committees that have voted against ownership unbundling.
In our committee, there is a new compromise on gas, worked out by Mrs Laperrouze and Mr Vidal-Quadras.
There is also a new compromise within the Council.
We are serious about voting again tomorrow on electricity to re-establish the way things were many months ago.
However, that has been superseded; that will not be the result.
A parliament that wants to be taken seriously must be open to these new conditions and changes.
We have been rushed through the entire process and I was constantly told that we had to work fast, we had to hurry, we could still try the experiment of finding clever solutions that move in the direction of Parliament's decision.
Therefore, I urge you to go beyond party lines and vote for the proposals we have presented here, to find compromises along the lines of what we voted for regarding gas and what the Council voted for.
