on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, you had an excellent team in Bali.
They worked until they dropped, and I ask you to convey these thanks to your staff.
As a European patriot, I believe that the real success of Bali lies in the absolutely crucial decisions taken by the European Union last March in favour of a trio of 20% reductions, and that is the basis on which our lives will be lived in this continent in the coming years.
I do not intend to deal with the various successes achieved in Bali, because my fellow Members will no doubt see to that.
I am pleased that, besides making progress with the United States, we were also able to ensure that, in addition to the 38 countries which have already signed the Kyoto Protocol, the closest G77 countries are now committed to doing something rather than constantly lamenting the fact that every government is waiting for the others to act.
This cat-and-mouse game is over.
That breakthrough, incidentally, could not have been achieved without the help of the United States.
Allow me, Commissioner and Mr President-in-Office, just to say a few words on the things that will exercise us in this debate.
We learned in Bali that we fall short if we confine all our discussions to CO2.
I believe we need to develop far greater awareness of the sustainability debate, and it has also become apparent that we have more than just a climate crisis but also a raw-materials crisis, but even that can be turned to advantage.
I believe we must associate the concept of sustainability far more closely with our objectives in this field in order to heighten awareness.
But that, of course, brings me straight to the Council, Mr President-in-Office.
We are already observing our Member States starting to baulk at the 20/20/20 goals and trying to move heaven and earth to avoid having to achieve them.
I believe you face an extremely formidable challenge as you strive, together with us, to achieve these goals, for when the show moves on to Poznań and thereafter to another northern country, we shall have to stand our ground.
I hope that the Commission and Parliament will be the guarantors of further progress on this issue.
