Mr President, Mrs Harms, tank-busting is actually a positive thing in a pacifistic sense!
The scientific facts are well-known: the climate change that we are witnessing today has much to do with human activity.
In that respect, the achievements of the Temporary Committee are therefore exemplary.
What perturbs me about this report, however, is its threatening undertone.
I am perturbed that absolutely no space is given to divergent scientific opinions.
The fact is that whenever politics claims to be infallible, it gets something wrong.
The report talks about heat waves of unprecedented magnitude and about species extinction of up to 70% being caused by climate change.
It says that almost every region of the world will be adversely affected.
These assertions are based on projections from long-term modelling, but they cannot be ascribed so simplistically to human-induced climate change alone.
Against this background, I think it is scandalous for our Parliament that amendments tabled by Mr Březina which draw attention to precisely this situation are to be declared inadmissible.
Mr President, I would ask you specifically to declare Amendment 15 admissible.
Environmental protection is not well-served if certain opinions are suppressed simply by means of administrative procedures.
An exaggerated threat will trigger policy measures which lead to a skewed view of political priorities.
One example is the assertion that climate change should become a priority in development assistance.
However, AIDS, malnutrition, malaria and earthquakes are more pressing problems today, and this is where we should be deploying our political resources.
In Europe, too, the debate about climate change has reached a dimension which is putting social achievements at risk.
Already, a family in Germany is paying more than 40% of the electricity price to the state, and at the petrol pumps the figure is now between 55% and 78%.
The new emissions trading scheme will drive up electricity prices again by at least 30%.
I advocate a rational approach to the issue of climate change, so that we can then identify solutions which are socially and economically compatible.
The amendments tabled by Mr Březina would offer a number of starting points, and I would ask you for your support.
(Applause)
