Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Solana, I would first like to thank Mr Kuhne for his report and for the way he went about it, which meant that we were able to achieve unity on almost all points.
Mr Solana, a few months ago, you attended Mr Polin's funeral in Bayonne.
He was the first soldier to have lost his life in a European operation.
For me, this was a very moving event, a very sad event, which caused me to think very carefully again about when we actually deploy soldiers and under what conditions.
This is also, at the same time, my answer to Mrs Beer and the concept of human security.
The concept of human security is certainly an interesting one - including for development aid.
Without security, there is no development.
However, I am not sure that this concept is appropriate for the European Union's security and defence policy, as it would be possible to take it to mean that we should intervene in every case, all over the world.
That raises expectations that it may not be possible to fulfil.
When people are in need, they do not look for the one who has the best intentions but for the one who can actually help them.
This is the weakness in this concept, and nothing would be worse than raising false hopes here.
My group will therefore be voting against mentioning this principle.
The French Presidency is ahead of us and along with it, there will most probably also be some important decisions to make.
I have mentioned this already: more and more soldiers are being sent on dangerous missions.
We have a responsibility to ensure that that they also have the necessary equipment, the best possible equipment for these operations.
That is not yet the case in many areas.
We have shortcomings in telecommunications and - this is extremely important - in the civil area and in civil operations.
We have deficits in reconnaissance and navigation.
Here I expect concrete suggestions to be made so that, in the future, there will be closer cooperation and so that such projects and shortcomings will be solved together in the European way.
The report in front of us demands that Eurocorps be permanently subject to the European Union.
In my opinion, this would be a great step forward compared to Battle Groups, which are only ever made available to the European Union for a six-month period.
I am calling for the European Security and Defence College that Mr Kuhne mentioned to become more than just a virtual college so that it is given the means with which to perform its task.
