Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as was only to be expected, this debate has focussed very clearly on the really crucial issues.
We should talk about them openly because we are dealing here with reality and not wishful thinking.
The reality is quite simple.
The traditional patterns of conflict are no longer what they once were.
The traditional distinction between internal and external security is becoming increasingly blurred.
For instance, not everybody in this Chamber will agree with the American view that the fight against terrorism is a war.
Yet most Americans share that view.
The technology used to maintain internal security, especially to combat international crime and terrorism, is tending more and more to come from the same research centres and the same enterprises and also to be used for the same purpose, although with different fields of application.
We must clearly recognise that we need to draw the boundaries elsewhere, namely in the place where the political decisions on the use of instruments are taken.
At this point let me state quite clearly: the Treaty applies here.
General Morillon - if I may use Mr Morillon's title here, given that he referred to his important role in the Balkans - has drawn our attention to that again.
There have been European operations to prevent conflict, resolve conflicts and avoid conflicts for a long time.
I do not need to call any senior officers as witnesses, since everybody here knows that those who are responsible for the safety of European soldiers sent on these missions rely heavily on having an exact and precise picture of the situation.
Under today's conditions it is no longer possible to obtain that kind of picture without the use of space technology, because otherwise the other side would have it.
We would be putting our own forces in extreme danger and making them less effective if we said that for reasons of principle we Europeans could not allow such a thing.
I want to draw attention to these problems again to show that I am very much aware of them.
They relate both to our space policy and to the area of security research.
I can only urge Parliament to see its role as also ensuring that in this difficult situation in which we find ourselves, where things are not just black and white but there is also a large grey area, we still proceed in a manner that does not compromise our values and our principles.
