on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, may I express my thanks to Mrs Willmott for the fair and constructive nature of our cooperation in committee.
The report reflects the high priority attached to health and safety at work in the 27 Member States of the European Union.
The key safeguards are emphasised and weighted.
The cost of accident prevention and safety is high, but let me stress unequivocally that good health is priceless.
The important points are that the provisions should be transposed and applied in all Member States and that the European Union should help Member States to transpose the rules and should offer them advice rather than meting out punishments.
I believe that particular attention should be focused on small and medium-sized enterprises, which need assistance in this field if they are to remain competitive.
In this respect we call on the Commission to create the appropriate basic conditions for SMEs in cases where these conditions do not yet exist and to improve them where they do exist.
The protection afforded to employees must not depend on the country in which they work or the size of their company.
In the brief time at my disposal I only wish to list a few points of particular importance, such as better protection against hepatitis and AIDS and the continued systematic removal of asbestos from workplaces, however complex and expensive that may be.
I believe we must focus on hepatitis B and especially on those people who run a high occupational risk of infection by hepatitis viruses, in other words medics, paramedics, carers and first aiders.
In the realm of first aid, efforts must also cover those people in many Member States who, in addition to their daytime jobs, perform unpaid voluntary work with the emergency services.
I believe it was very important that the report stuck rigidly to the subject and avoided citing examples, which might well have engendered prejudgement of many issues.
Thank you for our fruitful cooperation.
The EPP-ED Group endorses the report.
