Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are all agreed on one thing: we are against any form of discrimination.
I should like to clarify this right at the outset.
However, there are different approaches to reaching this objective.
I am of the opinion that protection against discrimination cannot conclusively be better regulated at European level than at national level.
Here, too, we are expected to comply with the principle of subsidiarity.
Many areas of life are currently regulated by EU anti-discrimination regulations.
Four anti-discrimination directives have been adopted in recent years: the Race Directive, the Employment Directive, the Equal Treatment Directive and the Gender Directive.
A multitude of infringement proceedings are currently in progress against Member States on account of problems in transposing the Treaty.
Strictly speaking, they are even now in progress against 20 countries, that is three quarters of the EU Member States.
It appears there is considerable legal uncertainty here.
A new, broad and over-simplifying approach in the form of a framework directive is the wrong response to the legal uncertainties that exist here.
The current problems first have to be examined before the Commission proposes new directives.
Otherwise, the result otherwise will be more bureaucracy, more costs to citizens and less legal clarity, which benefits no one, particularly not the fight against discrimination.
For this reason I, like my group, am against the articles in the Lynne report that call for a framework directive, a horizontal directive.
If the other groups assert themselves, however, and the demand for a framework directive persists, I see myself being forced to vote against the report, not because I am against protecting against discrimination, but because a framework directive at European level is the wrong way, in my opinion.
In the field of disability, all Member States as well as the European Community have signed the UN Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
Here we must and shall fulfil our obligations.
We shall not, however, help anyone by adopting yet another unclear and wishy-washy framework directive.
