Mr President, many thanks to Mr Deprez and Mr Guardans Cambó for their comments.
I think they are very much in line with our group's position.
The report is entitled 'The factors favouring support for terrorism and the recruitment of terrorists'.
Other speakers have welcomed the fact that we are talking about this issue, and they are right to do so.
However, we are not discussing it for the first time.
The European Parliament and the Union as a whole have talked about the preachers of hate and have taken preventive measures to cut off the flow of funds to terrorist organisations.
These are certainly useful measures.
In that respect, I think that the report largely hits the right note.
I think it would be slightly overstating the case to view the Internet as the root of all evil or as a safe haven.
It is undoubtedly a space which reflects social trends just as much as real life does, and I do not believe that we should be focusing all our efforts on quelling it once and for all.
We simply will not manage it.
The question, then, is what can we do instead?
We have talked about audiovisual services, and the question which arises here is: why does the European Union not take action if certain channels are broadcasting hate programmes on EU territory that are aimed directly at children?
In one of Hezbollah's programmes, for example, a figure disguised as Mickey Mouse - in whatever form - attacks Jewish settlers.
This is intended to teach small Palestinian children about their history.
It is not the case that a Member State intervened to put an end to this problem.
Instead, the Walt Disney company asserted its rights over Mickey Mouse, and at the end of the series, Mickey Mouse was killed off by a Jewish settler.
This was broadcast on European territory!
Why is Hezbollah still not on the EU's list of terrorist organisations?
We have just had an interesting discussion with Dick Marty on this issue.
I believe that, in general, more building blocks are needed to curb terrorism as a whole.
This must certainly include tackling the roots of terrorism in the countries concerned, for example by creating healthcare systems, infrastructure and education systems.
We should not leave it to terrorist organisations like Hamas in the Gaza Strip or Hezbollah to provide these services, for these havens within society are the very places where these organisations recruit their supporters.
