Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Commission has been advocating the reduction of fine and ultra-fine dust particulates for years now.
Since 2005 the Commission has proposed a raft of legislative measures for improving air quality, of which you are aware.
As part of the Seventh Framework Research Programme, however, important aspects of an environmentally friendly transport policy are being examined.
When laying down standards for vehicle particulate emissions, the Commission concentrated first on diesel cars and commercial vehicles, since the supply of these vehicles was considerably larger than the supply of motorised two-wheelers.
We therefore concentrated to begin with on tackling the problem of where they occur in large quantities.
Here we have reached some important milestones.
Parliament and the Council adopted a regulation on emissions from light and commercial vehicles in 2007.
These are the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards.
They have already been adopted and are coming into force.
The additional particulate emissions from diesel vehicles are now being reduced by these Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards from the current 25 milligrams per kilometre to 5 milligrams per kilometre.
In addition, the Commission put forward a proposal on 21 December 2007 for a regulation on emissions from heavy commercial vehicles, and this is the Euro VI standard.
It reduces the limits for nitrogen oxide emissions by 80% and particulate emissions by 66% compared with the Euro V standard in force today.
The problem of particulate emissions from two-wheelers essentially arises from two-stroke engines.
Particulate emissions from four-stroke engines are very low in comparison, even when they correspond to the Euro 5 standard.
In 2004 the Commission commissioned a study intended to shed light on whether a legal provision is reasonable for limiting particulate emissions from two-stroke engines.
The result of the study was that the particulates discharged from these engines are predominantly hydrocarbons.
The limits for hydrocarbon emissions from motorbikes and mopeds - two-wheelers, therefore - were already tightened up here substantially in 2004 and in 2007, and the situation has already improved considerably for new cars.
In addition, manufacturers are switching from two-stroke engines to four-stroke engines so that the hydrocarbon limits can generally be maintained.
For this reason, the Commission has not put forward any specific measures for limiting particulate emissions from two-wheelers.
I must say, however, that the situation is clearly more critical for older vehicles with two-stroke engines emitting hydrocarbons and particulates in larger quantities.
These emissions can be significantly reduced, however, if synthetic oil is used for lubricating the engine instead of mineral oil.
The Commission therefore supports the corresponding campaign by the Association of European Motorcycle Manufacturers and by the Motorcyclists' Association.
The Commission is nevertheless investigating the need for a revision of the legislative provisions for two- and three-wheeled motor vehicles.
A study was commissioned at the beginning of this year, which will examine the findings of the study from 2004, taking account of the latest technical development.
The results of this study will be available by the end of this year.
If it emerges that a legislative proposal is needed from the Commission - and I am prepared to make one, should it be necessary - then this would take place in 2009.
According to the framework directive on ambient air quality assessment and management and the respective individual directives, which define emission limits for PM10 particulates and for benzene, the Member States must ensure by appropriate measures that the limits are maintained nationally on the appointed date.
The Member States must also provide for emergency measures in the event that the limits are temporarily exceeded.
In areas in which there is a considerably higher probability of two-stroke motors exceeding the limits, Member States will make allowance for this situation with their respective air quality plans and emergency measures after the Commission has carried out an assessment.
