on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, equality between women and men is one of the values and goals of the European Union.
The EU intends to establish that equality in every area of activity.
It is unthinkable that the realm of advertising should be excluded.
I therefore welcome the report by Mrs Svensson, who has addressed this important issue and presented a balanced report.
You have my sincere thanks.
Advertising affects us subconsciously.
One major effect is the way it creates gender stereotypes.
Discrimination in advertising runs counter to the aim of equality.
The EU is not doing enough to eliminate sexism and discrimination in the media.
We must therefore make it clear that Europe is a Europe of values.
We do not want any misogynist advertising, any advertisements that degrade women into objects or revel in crude clichés about women.
The same applies, of course, to adverts about men.
I would be delighted if, on the contrary, advertising helped to shake up our well-worn role perceptions, our images of men and women.
Regrettably, however, the advertising industry has drawn up battle lines against something that should actually be taken for granted, namely respect, and particularly respect for women.
I fail to comprehend why the advertising industry is raising such a storm in a teacup.
I call it a storm precisely because it seems to have caught the ear, unfortunately, of many female Members of this House.
For all that, we can surely agree, in fact, on the following basic principles: we need to be more awake to discrimination in the media, and we also need national monitoring authorities with which complaints can be lodged.
Something similar already exists, by the way, in many Member States.
This is why I cannot understand what all the fuss is about.
I had even wished that we would go further in this report.
For this reason I hope that we can indeed agree to support what is now on the table, for we need this report as a basis, and we should not water it down any further.
