Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I understand the Kosovo Albanians' rejoicing and delight at the freedom and independence they have gained.
At the same time, however, I understand the consternation and grief of many Serbs in Kosovo, and of course also in Serbia itself.
Unfortunately, no other mutually agreed solution was found.
The Milošević regime achieved anything but the integration of the population and the promotion of respect for Kosovo's Albanian citizens.
I therefore welcome the European Union's decision to create EULEX.
I would like to take this opportunity to extend heartfelt thanks to Mr Rupel, Minister of Foreign Affairs, for the way in which he tried to achieve agreement in the Council in this difficult situation.
This is very positive and should be pointed out clearly.
However, even all the assistance that will now come from Europe is of no use at all unless Kosovo itself gains the commitment of the majority to create a multi-ethnic society in the European sense.
Much of what I have seen in recent days, including the behaviour of Prime Minister Hashim Thaçi, encourages me and prompts me to hope that this multi-ethnic society is firmly seated in the minds of those responsible for the country.
We will see some demonstrations in the coming days, particularly in Serbia.
We should exercise patience.
We should extend a hand to Serbia.
We ought to understand that there is a kind of collective sense of loss at work here, and most of all, we should stress what Mr Jeremić said today in the Parliamentary committee regarding the renouncing of violence and boycotts.
That is a fundamental element and also the basis of further discussions with Serbia.
We want to accompany Serbia on the road to joining the European Union.
However, that is a decision to be made in Belgrade.
It is not for us to make that decision for Serbia.
I am well aware of the situation in Kosovo.
Many people coexist there.
Perhaps they are set against each other right now but I believe that it is possible for them to stand together, to work with one another.
This mutuality must be the goal of our policies, including here in the European Union and the European Parliament.
(Applause)
