Madam President, this gives me an unexpected opportunity to respond to Mrs Harms' contribution, which I shall do with the greatest of pleasure, for the distinction between suggestions and facts, I believe, is certainly discernible in the report.
We have essentially incorporated a judgment of the Federal Constitutional Court that created a new fundamental right.
The right to the confidentiality and integrity of IT systems was the first thing to be enshrined in this legislative act.
We have thus acted faster than any Member State, particularly my own.
Publicly accessible private networks have also been included, services like Facebook, Bebo, etc., that have hitherto lain completely outside the scope of directive.
What about cookies, similar software or other applications that transmit user data back to home base, as it were, without the consumer's prior consent - will they become a thing of the past?
Consumers have given their prior consent, in principle, in respect of everything in their computers, mobiles and other applications belonging to, or even accessible to, third parties.
In future, location information can only be captured anonymously or with the prior consent of the consumer.
Unsolicited marketing, irritating text messages, stupid e-mails and the like - the directive will rule out all of these things.
Notification of the data-protection authorities will be mandatory in future whenever any authority searches for anyone's personal data.
Last but not least, we have created a clearer framework for the notification requirement in the event of security breaches and the loss of data than has existed to date.
Since we were talking about suggestions before, I do not wish to omit that we are considering how to deal with IP addresses, because IP addresses - and we must not confuse these things - are not the data that are being traded, which are personal data, credit-card details, etc., and even if they were traded - just to explain this briefly - an IP address is not necessarily a personal characteristic, at least not when your fridge transmits a message to your computer.
(The President cut off the speaker.)
