Mr President, opinions are divided on milk quotas.
We have also seen this within our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which has nevertheless accepted a unanimously agreed compromise.
If the European Parliament therefore wants to send out a signal to the Commission and the Council of Ministers, it should also be aware, however, that the farmers and their representatives are still divided.
Some are fully able to accept an increase in quotas of 2% or more and therefore a soft landing prior to the total abolition of quotas.
They want growth opportunities through better use of their production potential, because the market opportunities in the EU and on the world market as a result of constantly rising demand are very attractive.
Others fear a slump in production prices, which have only recently become fairer, if greater quantities of milk are produced.
Opinions are also divided on the European balancing out proposed by the Committee on Agriculture.
Does this not now mean abandoning the national milk quota system when there is an undersupply of 3 million tonnes across Europe?
Would the target not be reached too by reducing the superlevy and increasing the dairy quotas?
Which dairy farmer has the courage to play poker in the countries where - as in Luxembourg - the superlevy for 2006-2007 will once again be falling due by overshooting the quotas?
Because a voluntary 2% increase in milk quotas for the 2008-2009 milk year is part of the compromise, I am able to support it.
I am particularly pleased with our report's request to set up a milk fund restructuring programme.
I think it is extremely important that an analysis of the economic, social and ecological effects of increasing the milk quotas and a report on consumer behaviour will shortly be demanded that expressly calls for consideration of the particular factors of milk production in disadvantaged regions such as Luxembourg, with difficult production conditions.
The money planned for the milk sector must continue.
It must also be clarified that producer prices, which are fairer in the long run, are only marginally to blame for higher prices for food.
Distributors and the dominant food chains are continually counting their blessings here.
