rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner Hübner, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budgetary procedure is special because it is the last one to obey the rules that have applied in the past.
As of next year we will be establishing our budget according to the procedure set out in the Lisbon Treaty.
That means our Parliament will have to concentrate more carefully because we will have to express our political will in budgetary items and budgetary figures at a single reading.
We will no longer be able to rectify, to amend compromises we have reached, or to make up for mistakes at a second reading.
The first and indeed only reading must remain and must serve as a workable basis for negotiations with the Council up to the end of the year.
It is therefore important for us to emphasise that alongside the 2009 budgetary procedure we expect to make preparations together with the Council and the Commission to ensure that we conduct the budgetary procedure in accordance with the Lisbon Treaty.
Our current budgetary procedure is, however, somewhat different already.
At the suggestion of the Working Party on Parliamentary Reform, the Committee on Budgets has decided it will no longer submit our usual guidelines in response to the Commission's Annual Policy Strategy in the form of an initial motion for a resolution in plenary, but will instead present our proposal on the budgetary framework and priorities for 2009.
The groups are responsible for the APS resolution, which will address all the policy areas.
We in the Committee on Budgets have concentrated on the overarching budgetary concerns we consider especially important and have set them out in 11 paragraphs.
I want to draw particular attention to three aspects.
Firstly, it is clear that our budgetary cloth has been cut very closely, i.e. it is a very tight fit.
The margins for the individual headings are very small.
We cannot fund political priorities that would urgently need budgetary flanking measures, such as playing a practical role in climate policy, without putting earlier priorities at risk.
The same applies to funding growth and employment or a sustainable Europe.
If we take, for example, Heading 1A we see that we can under no circumstances finance any new agencies with available funds.
We will have to stick to our old, but simple and eminently reasonable principle of 'new tasks, new money'.
Secondly, it is clear see that Heading 4 is chronically under-funded.
The picture there remains the same year after year.
We expect the Commission to present us with a preliminary draft budget that has analysed the requirements precisely and is realistic.
We want at last to use the flexibility instrument for the purpose for which it was introduced, namely for unforeseen needs.
We do not want it to have been swallowed up, in part or even in full, by the end of the year.
Thirdly, we are firmly resolved to inform the Commission before Parliament's summer recess of our intentions regarding pilot projects and preparatory actions.
We expect the Commission to leave us adequate margin for manoeuvre for this parliamentary instrument in the preliminary draft budget, and to do so for all headings.
We certainly noticed that it has not included the pilot projects and preparatory actions in the tables attached to the Annual Policy Strategy for 2009.
In conclusion, we are resolved not to go beyond the financial framework but are very clearly aware of the restrictions and problems and therefore hope for good cooperation with the Council and the Commission.
