Madam President, Commissioner, the Haug report presents our first reflections on the Preliminary Draft Budget at a very early stage, and we are combining these with a plenary mandate for the conciliation that will take place on 17 July.
Naturally, without the Reform Treaty, some important key points of future-oriented common policy are not yet in place but, even without the Treaty, there is much that contributes to the need to rework the Preliminary Draft Budget: compelling and conspicuous deficits, particularly in foreign and security policy, and the EU as a Global Player under heading 4; and the results expected from the G8 Summit and the conclusions of the European Council on 19-20 June also have to be taken into account.
In at least 13 paragraphs, the European Council has in fact presented an intensive programme for revising the multiannual financial programming: the further development of Frontex; Europol; strengthening Eurojust; measures to deal with natural disasters; pilot projects in second-generation biofuels and clean coal technology; funds for agriculture in developing countries, food security assistance and stabilisation; an increase in public development aid of 0.7% of GNP by 2015; trade assistance for developing countries; immigration policy; and new financial resources for dealing with climate change.
I am eager to see how the Ministers for Finance, with whom we now have to negotiate, will tackle this series of innovations put forward by the Heads of State or Government and what figures and proposals they will provide to back up the political conclusions of these Heads of State or Government.
I want to concentrate on two supplementary elements - I expressly support the overall lines that the rapporteur has produced here thanks to intensive cooperation, including with the specialist committees.
If the Commission is now thinking about producing savings from agriculture for a new programme to benefit farmers in developing countries, then people are welcome to discuss where these will come from.
However, sneaking a project like that in under heading 2 by creating a new legal basis is simply not on!
If the intention is to finance it in that way, taking into consideration commitments we have made, this constitutes a revision of the financial perspective and belongs under heading 4.
Secondly, we need considerable further discussion about whether to proceed by simply giving these funds to the United Nations or the World Bank without having access to the internal audits and without certain guarantees with respect to correct political priorities.
Given the experience we have had, it is not that simple!
Naturally, we know that, for example, we spent three times as much on Palestine in 2008 as is stated in the 2009 Preliminary Draft Budget.
Given the new challenges, given the political decisions, the old trick of financing the common foreign and security policy and new priorities at the expense of the developing countries in heading 4 is no longer acceptable and we shall not put up with it.
