Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon will mean a considerable improvement for employees - Mr Wurtz, I have to contradict you here.
We therefore have to accept it because social policy is becoming a duty across the board.
Everything in future has to be checked by legislative means from the viewpoint of social policy and the definition of the social market economy as provided for in the Treaty represents substantial progress.
We need competitiveness, we need more productivity - and this must certainly be a headline in a global order - but in all three cases we note that it is not a matter of competition in a global order here, but rather whether work was carried out in certain sectors in the European Union between its Member States as part of a common internal market.
We must not get into a situation in which global order is used here to set employees from different Member States up against one another on the basis of international competitiveness.
If employee solidarity is destroyed, the European Union, the cohesion of our societies, will also be destroyed.
For this reason it is important that we are not now taken to task by the courts, but that we make it clear that we have to examine the legislation.
The Posting of Workers Directive dates from the beginning of the 1990s.
It no longer applies today.
We have to find out what is wrong with it.
I do not know in detail.
Collective bargaining partners must check that they are concluding their collective bargaining agreements in accordance with the internal market.
National legislation must be adapted to it.
We have to check all this.
At the same time this must not lead to partitioning and protectionism because mobility should be guaranteed.
When we address the four basic freedoms, we mean the four basic freedoms of the market.
However, my definition of a social market economy means that market can take place only within the framework permitted by the legislator so that we have a fair distribution of the benefits of this economic order and do not leave them to the free play of market forces.
If this happens, the market will devour even itself.
We therefore need this kind of framework condition of a social market economy.
Mr President, allow me in conclusion to read out a quotation.
'Not the free market economy of the laissez-faire plundering of a past era, nor the free play of market forces' - and similar phrases - 'but the socially responsible market economy, in which the individual comes into his own again, which places a high value on the person and subsequently also provides a fair return for work carried out; this is the market economy of a modern type'.
This is a quotation by Ludwig Erhard, of whom it definitely cannot be said that he was against a market economy.
