rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 2004 the European Network and Information Security Agency, known by the acronym ENISA, was founded.
Its task is essentially to improve network and information security in the European Union and to promote closer cooperation among the Member States.
ENISA's mandate is unquestionably complex.
Computer viruses, spam mail, phishing and Trojans are real threats in a world of virtual data.
Hacking threatens private and public networks.
The damage done to our modern communication society is immense.
Security is the Achilles' heel of our computer systems.
This is where we are vulnerable and endangered; when I put it that way, you will understand how important this agency is to us.
On the other hand, this agency does not have a large staff, but it still has this mammoth task to perform.
This raises the legitimate question whether ENISA can actually perform its tasks in the way in which it currently operates.
We have very often discussed, both in the chamber and in other bodies here, how ENISA might perhaps be further developed.
The latest proposal from the Commission was that ENISA be merged with the planned European Authority for Telecommunications Markets.
That proposal was not embraced by Parliament or by the Council.
Instead, Parliament and the Council decided before the summer recess that ENISA's mandate should be extended for three years.
The ultimate purpose of our question to the Commission is to ensure that this debate is structured over the next three years.
By asking the question, we also want to grasp the nettle and challenge the Commission to state its position on the points we regard as critical.
In its present form, can ENISA perform the tasks that are expected of it?
Is the Commission thinking about replacing ENISA with another organisation?
Is it absolutely essential that these tasks be performed by an EU agency?
In the Commission's view, what general changes to ENISA's structure should be considered?
I look forward to the Commissioner's reply.
I am keen to find out how far advanced the deliberations are in the corridors of the Commission.
We in Parliament, of course, shall subsequently be called upon to form our own opinion on the future shape of ENISA.
