on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, many thanks for your reply, which met us half-way in at least some points.
You have to understand that we are impatient with regard to these issues because the latest incidents have again shown how pressing the problem is.
Firstly, with regard to the Roma forum: approval from our side.
I believe it is a good idea, particularly with the involvement of the Roma themselves.
It is important, however, to act quickly because I am afraid that, now that the proposal has been made, it will simply be discussed to death and there will be too much dithering.
I believe the Roma forum should be set up as quickly as possible, within the current year.
Parliament will certainly provide assistance.
Secondly, it is also important, of course, to engage the local authorities, because governments are often well-intentioned and make promises, but then the problem ends up with the Mayor or somewhere else in the region and is not actually dealt with.
Thirdly, many thanks for your undertaking regarding the proposals for equal treatment beyond the workplace.
This is an important subject generally, which my Group very much supports.
But for all that, Commissioner, I should like to say on behalf of my Group that these interdisciplinary groups - we are all familiar with them from our own administrations - are all arduous and helpful.
In our view it would be important for there to be one Commissioner responsible for coordinating the subject area, or for there to be at least one authorised representative among the Commissioners whose task it is to carry it through.
I still do not know why the Romanian Commissioner has the job that he has.
If he were at least able to attend to it, this would help.
I don't know.
But we would like to see these matters given great priority.
Things are moving in the right direction.
Thank you, Commissioner, for your report, but a bit more force and a bit more pace would be of great value in the interest of the Roma.
