Mr President, first of all I would like to congratulate Mr Kuhne on his report, especially since it applies a very comprehensive definition of security and therefore defines a comprehensive range of security policy instruments which, naturally, includes the military, although it is not based exclusively on military measures.
Mr Wiersma will go into this in more detail.
I would also like to thank Mr Saryusz-Wolski very much for his effective cooperation, which we recently experienced in the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
I would like to mention two matters.
The first - and we have already discussed it today in our group, as Mr Schulz has already mentioned - is the question of energy security and common energy policy.
We are not interested in criticising bilateral agreements that were concluded in an era when there was no discussion about a common security policy.
However, such agreements are still being concluded now, and especially for the future, it is important to make it clear that, when such agreements are concluded, they must be embedded in a common security policy and a common energy policy.
Today I spoke with a prominent representative from Azerbaijan who is here in Parliament.
He said, 'Friends, you present quite differently from China and Russia'.
This is not acceptable!
We must appear united if we want to pursue common goals, and he was right to point this out.
This brings me to my second matter, which we will deal with in more detail in the Brok report.
There is a lot of talk now about the Union for the Mediterranean.
As a group, we are calling for a Union for the Black Sea region too.
This is also an important region, in which we must do a great deal, particularly in our own interests.
I thank Mr Saryusz-Wolski for having addressed this matter.
The proposal, as we have it from Poland and Sweden, is good.
We support it, but it does not go far enough.
We must go further if we really want to represent our political interests in this region in particular.
Obviously, we support this, in connection with this report and will discuss it further in connection with the Brok report, so that our common neighbours in the east and the south become co-advisers, involved with us in managing and implementing the European goals.
Finally, a remark on the diplomatic service - the High Representative, Mr Solana, also mentioned it.
There is a lot of discussion about it and we will also produce a report on it, but let me make one thing clear: we need a diplomatic service that is viable and is acceptable to the Commission, the Council and the Member States, one that is efficient and can really take its political responsibility seriously, including its responsibility to this Parliament.
For us, the critical thing is to make it clear that this service - however it is organised - is, of course, responsible to the European Parliament through the High Representative.
A final remark on Iran: Mr Solana, I wish you good luck in Iran.
Obviously we are taking the same approach, which is to be flexible, but to state clearly that we do not want any more atomic weapons, especially in that region.
They would create further insecurity, not more security.
All the best, then, in successfully establishing these fundamental principles.
(Applause)
