Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the energy package will live on in my memory as one that was not properly conducted in every detail, for we were rushed through it.
We did not always take the time that was needed for it.
I would say this now here in this debate and at this particular time.
I hope that it all does not catch up with us one day.
I have now seen again that in politics there is a real risk of staking everything on a cure-all and then railroading it through with all vigour while promising the people that this will solve all their problems.
I hope that at the end of the day we really will find a solution to the problems facing us, namely how we acquire more investment and obtain more reasonable prices and how we achieve security of supply in the European energy sector.
From morning to night we read in the newspapers and hear on the television about the cares and woes that all this is causing around the world.
Is that the solution that we have been working towards all this time in these debates?
I doubt it.
I am therefore thankful that we have made some headway on the gas directive, that we have moved a little further towards a compromise, that we have been more discriminating and have noticed that electricity and gas are different, that there is no longer a one-fits-all solution.
It is good that we are now aiming for the third way and no longer just see unbundling as the number one option, and that we have managed to make a few amendments to much of what the Commission had proposed.
Whether this is enough only time will tell.
I am pleased that in June the Council demonstrated, through its new proposal, that even in such difficult situations we are able to rise above national boundaries and differences of opinion so as to come up with solutions.
I would hope that what we have now agreed on gas will be revised slightly tomorrow and will move a bit closer to the compromise that has already been found in the Council.
If we are to reach a swift settlement then we ultimately need to achieve a compromise between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
I believe that what has been presented to us by the Council is very close to what we have now come up with for gas.
Perhaps we should also take this as a benchmark for the electricity market.
