Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the resolution drafted by the Steering Group focuses on three key areas: the internal market, where we are concerned in particular with the need to close certain gaps, and I need only quote the examples of the absence of a uniform patent law and the absence of an internal market in insurance; the labour market, where we are concerned in particular with security through flexibility; and monitoring and control, where we are concerned in particular with implementing the strategy in the Member States.
This time we chose deliberately to focus not on energy and climate, because that was the key area in the past two years, and in strategic terms we have in fact achieved what we wanted to achieve with our resolutions, namely to ensure that the Commission and the Council concern themselves deeply with the subject, which is what they are doing.
One aspect we continue to regard as important and which is addressed in the general part of the resolution is the whole complex of better legislation.
In particular, we refer to the problems that still exist in regard to evaluating results and cutting back on red tape.
Of course arguments also arose between the groups during the preparatory stage, nearly all of which were settled.
In the end one decisive point of dispute remained.
My Group stands by the integrated guidelines and, like the Commission, believes that we do not need to change the integrated guidelines at this point in time.
Overall, we can regard what has been achieved in recent years as a success.
When in 2005 we in a sense revived the Lisbon Strategy, everybody assumed Lisbon was merely the capital of a Member State, Portugal.
Nobody connected its name with a concrete strategy.
That was not the case, for example, of Kyoto, which stands not just for a town but also for a global strategy.
We have made considerable progress in recent years in terms of our perception of what Lisbon stands for.
We support the Commission's position that growth and jobs are the key aspect and that progress in that area is of crucial importance.
For only if we have growth and jobs can we conduct a good environmental and social policy.
