Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is only one reason why we wish to have a debate this evening and that is that the attacks from the American side, by both Boeing and many members of Congress, on the awarding of the contract to Northrop Grumman/EADS are very bitter and even go as far as to target individual Member States.
That is the reason why we are holding a debate here and why there will also be a resolution, for which I am very thankful, because we in the committee have been trying for a long time to bring this resolution about.
The frustration is directed against the fact that Northrop Grumman/EADS presented a better offer, to which the US Air Force gave preference over a Boeing model in a public tender.
That is the most natural thing in the world.
We are dealing here with NATO partners and not with countries who do not work together regularly.
We have the Transatlantic Partnership, which is reaffirmed at every summit meeting.
In the three stated areas, Europe purchases four times as much from the Americans, and so, to that extent, we already have a very intensive mutual 'partnership'.
There is absolutely no reason for the Americans to be frustrated, and that is what we want to make clear here.
We do not need to go into the details again - I am very grateful that the Commissioner and Mr Papastamkos have already done that.
It is essentially a political protest that we want to voice today - and which, by the way, repeatedly influences the WTO discussion on the American side, because comments are constantly being made.
The US Air Force cannot be permitted to award a contract to, among others, a European consortium, at the same time as a WTO case is being decided.
This makes it plain that the two issues are interwoven politically, but the Commissioner is absolutely right when she points out that, in reality, they are not connected.
I should like personally to thank the Commission and the Member States for repeatedly setting great store by getting the facts right.
I should also like to thank my fellow Members for the fact that we are finally having this discussion and can present the resolution.
I hope this means that the Americans will give us a good hearing.
