rapporteur. - Mr President, I should also like to thank the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur, the Council and the Commission for their effective cooperation.
I believe we have been trying to create a complete package in order to maintain a certain coherence between the three reports.
At first glance I would say that Parliament to some extent leads the way.
We were perhaps hoping to have achieved a result already in an unofficial trialogue.
However, Parliament can now point the way.
I am convinced that the Council can very usefully take on much of what has been debated here and will be agreed.
The transport manager, as just stated, plays an important role in access to jobs.
I believe it is important that we shall know tomorrow how enterprises are structured in an international sector such as this, who takes responsibility there on the one hand in terms of finances and reliability, but also on the other hand in terms of the important regulations on transport.
If we are working at international level tomorrow, it is important to know how partners are structured and that we can rely on them.
We have tried to organise this as simply and transparently as possible in administrative terms.
We are, however, very much counting on the Council's cooperation because the information network we want to create must be transparent, efficient as well as readily available.
Any kind of delay here is unnecessary in our view, because progress on this can be very quick thanks to today's information technology.
The preconditions for jobs are also clear.
We do not want any special conditions for people who already have work experience and have proved they are reliable.
We would, however, like this also to remain verifiable at regular intervals.
In terms of market access, transport by bus is somewhat easier.
We have also sought coherence there with access to jobs.
We in Parliament have set our priorities on focusing for the time being on serious offences.
An exchange of information on minor offences between countries in future was really not what we were after.
If we have good information available on serious offences, we are already a major step ahead.
In our view existing treaties should not be jeopardised.
In addition, we believe public urban transport is already protected by its own regulations and it is incumbent upon the Member States to check whether or not problems are occurring there.
The 12-day regulation is already the subject of debate here, of course, and as has just been mentioned, Parliament had already requested this 12-day regulation before, but it was not resolved under the British Presidency at the time.
Parliament has always spoken out clearly on this because we are not just market-oriented.
We have also been considering safety criteria and we wanted to take this subject up once again.
I hope that this Parliament will find the right time as well as the correct formula for adopting this subject.
Finally, access to road haulage: the famous concept of cabotage is, of course, enormously important here.
In simple terms it is ultimately about somehow regulating what is referred to as the Services Directive in the transport sector.
How should I, if I come from a third country, provide services in another country?
Should I be doing this indefinitely?
Should I be doing this under just any conditions?
This is ultimately the key question.
We are not talking about large transport companies here, but about smaller enterprises.
On the one hand we are accommodating the environmental aspect by wanting to avoid empty runs, but on the other hand we should not - being well aware that the social as well as the fiscal conditions differ greatly from country to country at the present time - be encouraging direct dumping in these two sectors either with this regulation.
Limiting cabotage operations to three a week is at least in my view a clear statement.
This is much better than the term 'temporary', which would virtually have meant 27 countries having 27 different legislatures in the next few years, which would definitely not have been beneficial for the sector.
I believe the regulation is clear.
The fact that this now has to be completed within a reasonable time is, in our view - I am now speaking for myself - plain sailing insofar as the differences in terms of wages and taxes are being abolished.
We have also been examining cabotage rather more realistically and this means we are already able to start after the first unloading.
Unlike the Commission, I am of the opinion that cabotage must be possible on an international journey as well as on the return journey.
We therefore also want some coherence in market access in terms of serious offences and information about them, just as we also want to simplify the administrative procedures.
Finally, an appeal once again to the countries themselves.
With these regulations, as we have been debating and adopting them here today - particularly with regard to cabotage - there is little sense in going into too much detail when the countries as a whole are not being given the necessary funds to carry out accurate monitoring of these cabotage journeys.
There is not a vast amount of work.
In our view it entails eventually harmonising the management documents on the one hand, and on the other hand getting to a point where total cabotage expenditure of 2% is properly monitored at European level; for certain countries, however, this does mean 30-40% of the work in this sector.
I believe that only then will what we are doing here make sense.
Certain details, which we disregard, will then make sense, too.
