Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Libicki, ladies and gentlemen, you will understand that this report is very important not only for this House but also for the public at large, as Mr Libicki has already said.
30 000 signatures demonstrate the concern there is around the coast of the Baltic Sea, which has been described as a sea dying of pollution.
It is very shallow.
At the bottom, it still has military vessels from the Second World War.
The question is: Is it really the most sensible thing to drive an energy pipeline along the bottom of this particular part of the European Union?
I have the honour of writing the opinion for the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and, as well as the environmental issues which the Committee on Petitions has looked at, we were also concerned about the nature of the environmental assessment study which the Commission has just referred to.
Commissioner, in your reply could you confirm that you will accept Parliament's paragraph 20 of the Libicki report, which calls upon you and the Commission to carry out an independent environmental assessment?
There is some concern that if the proposers commission an environmental assessment it might lack objectivity.
We also call on all littoral states around the Baltic Sea - all nine, including Russia - to be fully consulted and also to be fully involved in the maintenance and security of such a pipeline were it to be constructed.
The Commission has already stressed the importance of recognition of international and European law and we would add that liability by the company is also necessary.
The appropriate insurance should be taken out to cover any potential risk or damage caused by the project, either in its construction or thereafter.
Finally, we insist upon the principle of reciprocity.
Yesterday's failed attempt to remove the BP-TNK chief executive by Russian partners does not bode well for mutual understanding between EU companies and Russian companies.
We look for harmony in this exercise, but we also look for the Commission to follow this project very carefully, and as the rapporteur has pointed out, and two Commissioners to the hearing, the current proposal as tabled by Nord Stream is unsatisfactory.
I would just like to finish by saying that my group will be voting in favour of the Libicki report.
