Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a signatory of some amendments on behalf of the PPE-DE Group and as a member and Vice-Chairman of the Committee on Regional Development, I would like to take the opportunity to present my views on the Solidarity Fund and its revision, as rapporteur of the European Parliament.
Since the report on the Commission's draft instrument on the new Solidarity Fund was adopted in Parliament by an overwhelming majority in May 2006, this draft has been with the Council, where a majority of the Member States reject the new Fund in its amended form.
None of the intervening Council presidencies has included the new Solidarity Fund in its work programme.
On the contrary, the revised version is being blocked in the Council by the Finance Ministers.
Accordingly, the new Fund, designed to cover the period from 2007 to 2013, is not in force.
Unfortunately, until further notice we only have the old Fund, which has been in existence in its present form since September 2002 and which was cobbled together hurriedly at the time.
In tough negotiations and hard bargaining here in Parliament in 2006, we managed to work out compromises designed to make the Solidarity Fund a faster, more effective and, above all, more clearly defined emergency aid instrument.
Now the Council wants to bury this revised version once and for all.
I fail to comprehend how we, as a community based on solidarity, can turn our backs in this way, because of the sensitivities of some Member States, on an emergency instrument whose name celebrates the concept of solidarity.
We improved that instrument.
We extended it.
I cannot grasp why those who have already benefited from the Fund are now withholding their approval.
For this reason I make an urgent appeal to the Council to reconsider its decision and finally adopt the revised version.
We are a community based on solidarity, Mr President, and no one knows when or where the next disaster will occur.
It will then be your responsibility ...
(The President cut off the speaker.)
