- Mr President, the Alps are important this year for Europe.
Slovenia has the Presidency of the European Council, Switzerland and Austria are hosting the European football championships and all eyes are on the mountains.
I congratulate the Presidency on taking over the official functions.
It is an important Presidency.
The Lisbon ratification process is quite rightly your first priority.
The ESDP is being put to the test in Kosovo.
In Parliament we are looking to you to make clear to us - if we don't manage to achieve a Security Council resolution - that Resolution 1244 is a watertight legal basis for all ESDP measures.
My Group Chairman has said: we are against an accelerated stabilisation and association agreement for Serbia without cooperation with the ICTY.
We celebrate the fact that Slovenia is the first Member State from the accession countries to take over the Presidency.
We Liberals have always fought strongly for this enlargement.
We have also advocated it whenever we encountered antagonism at home.
We do not feel very much like celebrating at the moment, however.
I am from North Rhine-Westphalia and learnt from 2 300 people in Bochum yesterday that Nokia are closing their production facilities and will be relocating to Romania.
The impression was then created that it was happening with EU money.
I want to make it crystal clear for the FDP that the relocation of jobs within the European Union must not be facilitated with EU funds!
We shall be doing everything we can to ensure that no EU subsidies are flowing in this case.
I see that the President of the Commission is nodding.
I hope that we get a clear response to this from the Commission.
This is a very important subject, which scares people and makes them afraid of Europe.
This should not be!
We shall also ensure that eligibility for assistance is checked if national subsidies are directed into Romania.
This is a problem and we hope that the skilled and motivated people in Bochum will soon find work again.
