on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, you have attempted in a strategy paper to carry out a health check of agricultural policy, not so much in terms of agriculture, because that is going relatively well as the moment, even if not in all sectors.
The question was: is the agricultural policy up to date?
I have to say here: feverish displays on their own are not sufficient; we also have to develop appropriate treatment if deficiencies are diagnosed.
In fact you have diagnosed deficiencies; you have said as much yourself in your speech.
I do not want to go into details now, as that wastes too much time.
It now therefore depends on measures being taken that will also be socially acceptable.
What is essential is that agriculture has to contribute, of course, to the stabilisation of the climate.
It is doing so, but there are areas of agricultural production where it is becoming difficult to put forward proposals without restrictive intervention.
It is particularly important, however, that we ensure that public funds are distributed in such a way that the measures we consider necessary can be financed.
It is a disadvantage that what is referred to as the second pillar - rural development - has been curtailed in medium-term financial planning and has had to come to terms with cutbacks of more than EUR 20 billion according to the Commission's proposal and that of Parliament.
Consequently, we urgently need to reassign funds.
We also need to do this because we need social acceptance in 2013.
You have now put forward some proposals and here it must be to the credit of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and specifically the European Parliament's rapporteur, Mr Goepel, that he has bestowed practical relevance on the proposals you have put forward, which will subsequently lead to equal treatment among businesses that compete with one another.
You have proposed the introduction of degressivity of up to 45%.
On the suggestion of the rapporteur, the Committee on Agriculture has adopted this, but with the amendment that businesses with a large number of employees now also have an opportunity to evaluate their wage costs.
We were together in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania; we saw these businesses and you know that distortion of competition can be eliminated and justice created only if we introduce these measures.
I hope that you will also abide by this rule in your legislative proposal.
If not, we would still have the opportunity as Parliament to save ourselves in 2009.
Commissioner, we are in a codecision process and we therefore have a quite different and, for us, very comfortable position!
