Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a number of objective factors contribute to or cause the rise in prices.
There is also speculation, as Mr Schulz has explained in detail.
Does all this mean that we are helpless, that all we can do is sit and watch?
I do not believe so.
The Commissioner and representatives of the Council Presidency have mentioned certain points.
I would now ask you, Commissioner, together with your Commission colleagues, to draw up a comprehensive plan over the coming weeks as to what answers we can provide, as citizens - both globally and in Europe - want an answer to the question of what we can do and what we cannot do.
One point is the development of thriving, sustainable agriculture.
This is a vital aspect.
I do not want to repeat what has already been said, simply to make a brief additional comment: We were recently in Kosovo, where there are many areas of land where we as the European Union are, however, not doing anything to enable the simple people there to develop appropriate agriculture.
We must do more in our own region therefore - in the Balkans, Ukraine and in other countries - to promote the development of sustainable agriculture.
Secondly: we cannot simply say 'well, prices are rising, and that is all there is to it' because we know who is worst affected.
We know that the poorer people are, the greater the proportion of their income they have to spend on food, and that they are more seriously affected.
Therefore we must give clear signals on distribution and social welfare awareness so that when there are wage increases, and especially pension increases, these support in particular lower income groups here in Europe.
Of course, we must also support those on low incomes throughout the world.
We must also point out that although there is social unrest, the response to famine and shortages is, of course, much better in democratic countries.
The development of democracy, in all our countries but particularly in the third world, is an important aspect of counteracting these privations.
Fourthly - as has already been mentioned - the effects of speculation.
Does this mean then, that we cannot do anything?
Could Europe, perhaps within the framework of the UNDP, the World Bank, etc. not be proactive so that, by appropriately warehousing and releasing stores, we could at least partially lessen the effects of speculation?
We cannot say 'oh well, that is just how speculation works,' but we must see what we can do in this area.
Perhaps the same applies to oil and gas; there is work to be done there too.
As far as our energy policy goals are concerned, we should not throw the baby out with the bathwater.
It is absolutely true that there are exaggerated expectations, particularly as regards the first couple of technologies that were developed.
However, this is exactly where we must conduct more energy research, leading towards a second or third technology - I agree wholeheartedly - and especially the use of biomass and other raw materials that do not have the harmful displacement effect that is currently the case.
Here, too, the Commission must join with us in reflecting on this, and not abandon the goals but rather adapt them.
Finally I will restate my clear, firm message: let us help the poorest of the poor - worldwide, but also in Europe - to access healthier food despite this difficult situation.
That is our important social-democratic goal.
