Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we owe our thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Westlund.
She worked with a great deal of commitment and very cooperatively.
I welcome this, and it means we can also be happy with the result.
I believe that the new Regulation on food additives has achieved a satisfactory result for both manufacturers and consumers.
The current legislation on food additives is almost 20 years old.
With the transfer of new directives and two decisions into two regulations, the text has been simplified and updated in accordance with new technological and scientific developments.
It is a very good achievement to have a positive list that clearly states which substances can be used.
I believe this is a good thing, and I am also in agreement with the use of the comitology procedure when new substances have to be added.
We should act quickly here.
I am satisfied with the rules on GM products.
We need both authorisation procedures - there will be assessments - and so I do not see why we should not proceed accordingly here, as some Members have said.
Granted, thinking about azo dyes - the results of the Southampton study are indeed available - we also have to take note of the fact that the European Food Safety Authority has developed a study that has published an initial verdict in which it clearly states that the Southampton University study is not infallible.
It is not 100% reliable.
We must not become hysterical and start striking out because a procedure has been instituted.
The licensing procedure via the Food Safety Authority is excellent, but what bothers me - and here I should like to ask the Commission to have a rethink - is that we are giving the Food Safety Authority nine months for authorisation or risk analysis.
The Commission also needs nine months to take a risk management decision.
A business must therefore wait 18 months before receiving permission to place the product on the market.
This is a long way from bureaucracy reduction, so we really ought to put some thought into how it could be done more quickly.
