- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if the regulars at the long-distance drivers' table, hauliers and public policy watchdogs are not criticising our proposals to replace and simplify existing directives, then we are on the right path.
For me, it is a good path, because it contributes to several fundamental points: firstly, to increasing safety in road transport, because controls and the exchange of the data thus gained are more important than new legislation, but also because access to a profession and the issuing of licences are subject to unified quality criteria.
Secondly, to eliminating distortions to competition, because it makes it possible to put a stop to the activities of the black sheep in the transport industry, fight discrimination and increase the status of the occupation.
Thirdly, to environmental protection and the conservation of energy resources by reducing unladen journeys.
Fourthly, to making coach tourism more attractive, because 12-day tours will be guaranteed once more.
Fifthly, to the reduction of bureaucratic requirements, because the national electronic registers will be networked and access to these should be made easier, and simplified templates for Community licences and driver attestation are also planned.
Sixthly, to setting the modernisation of the sector in motion.
I believe that legal certainty for future cabotage transport operations is particularly important, even if these currently make up only 2-3% of the transport market.
Every unified regulation in Europe is better than the current patchwork quilt arrangement.
From an ecological point of view, we should open the way for cabotage transport immediately, but from a social and economic point of view, it makes better sense to limit it for the time being.
However, the goal must be the complete abolition of all limitations on cabotage transport operations by EU companies, as long as they meet the new licensing conditions.
I expect to see concrete steps towards this by 2014.
Moreover, we should not hamper bilateral agreements that open up the market more quickly.
