- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have recently had news from Japan that will certainly have delighted the rapporteur, Mr Buzek.
What it said was that my country, Germany, was completely isolated when it comes to using nuclear power.
I sometimes wonder how such reporting can be possible and whether people do not know how few countries around the world actually use nuclear energy.
If you really look into it you will see that three quarters of all the world's nuclear energy is produced in just six countries, while there are one or two others that have a marginal share of the nuclear power market.
This means that on a global level nuclear energy has made little or no contribution to date.
It only plays a role in part of Europe and in North America, where it figures largely.
There are many factors dictating whether this state of affairs will change or not, and one of these is how much public money is once more to be pumped into this dying industry.
The US, which was so conspicuous in Hokkaido, has now - thanks to departing President Bush - pledged USD 18 million to promote two or three reactor projects.
Nothing of this kind has been built there for twenty years and the nuclear industry needs a lot of public money in order to create a market artificially.
Some EUR 6 billion have been announced for the UK.
This is what a reactor is said to cost there if the German company E.ON builds it.
If we look around elsewhere we see that the Belene plant will be built for less, though Bulgaria wants EUR 600 million from Brussels to put the scheme into practice.
We really have to decide whether in the years ahead we are to put public money into future technologies and new markets or whether we want to stick to technology from the last century that poses enormous risks.
I am arguing for the future and against nuclear energy because I am convinced that the risks presented by this technology cannot be overcome.
Today's report of yet another accident at the Paks nuclear power station in Hungary simply reaffirms my opinion.
Thank you all for your attention.
