rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, many thanks for your closing words which are very encouraging.
I think that we have been able to identify a consensus here in the House, and this consensus naturally obliges us to undertake further scientific studies and to eliminate the remaining doubts, for after all, in which area of human knowledge is there no room for doubt?
That is something which, as rapporteur, I certainly want to see happen.
I am grateful for the praise which has kindly been expressed today, and I would like to pass it on to the staff behind the scenes who worked extremely hard on this report.
Let me take this opportunity to voice my warm thanks to them once again.
Listening to today's debate might give the impression that we are arguing over CO2.
Let me say this: we will have many other issues to argue about, for CO2 emissions are just the tip of the iceberg.
Yes, they are a serious issue, there is no doubt about that, but the real challenge is how we deal with our sustainability strategies.
How should we care for our planet Earth, which we hold in trust for our children?
The energy sources that we are currently burning up took many millions of years to create, and we are squandering them in just a thousand years or so.
The challenge, then, is how to make a litre of fuel go twice as far as it does at present.
That is what we need to achieve, and then we will have fulfilled our task.
That is the major challenge ahead: increasing efficiency in Europe, developing state-of-the-art technologies, using these technologies at home - that goes without staying - and also selling them profitably worldwide in order to create jobs.
That is our opportunity, as I see it, and I would ask all of you to help us seize this opportunity with both hands.
Let me reiterate my thanks to everyone, but with an eye to the Rules of Procedure, I would like to draw your attention to one last point.
From the very start of this debate, there has been a dire mistake in the translation of Article 10 which says that I condemn something.
That is not at all in my nature.
I may disapprove of one thing and another, but I never condemn anything.
I shall not mince my words: I think it is important to point out that there is a problem with bad translation in the House, which is evident throughout this entire report, and I would like to draw your attention to the correctly phrased amendments in this area which have been tabled in the House.
I would like to thank everyone involved and invite you to work with us on the next and more difficult stage in this process, namely resolving the question of how we should now respond to these scientific facts.
