on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, network security - it sounds like a specialised field of knowledge, but the security of networks is influencing more and more aspects of our daily lives: mobile communications, the Internet, which is squeezing its way, rather like an octopus, into more and more areas of everyday activity, ambient intelligence - the computer intelligence that is built into our environments, be it to assist elderly people or to control complex work processes.
All of this shows us that we are becoming more and more dependent on such advanced forms of technology.
They rule our lives and the growth of our economy.
How dependent we have become was recently demonstrated in Estonia.
You mentioned, Commissioner, that Georgia was affected too.
People are less aware of that case, but if we had needed a more spectacular example than Estonia, we got it there.
We saw how a modern, network-driven economy suddenly became dependent on that factor, on that technology, how it was attacked and how its security really did come under very serious threat.
That is also the reason why the Commission, in which Commissioner Liikaanen held the portfolio at that time, rightly recognised the need for a network-security agency.
This is why we were taken by surprise when ENISA was evaluated after only a year, before it was fully and properly resourced, and the agency's very existence was called into question.
That certainly shocked us at the time, and I am therefore delighted that we are conducting this debate here.
Why did we call this agency into question after only a year?
How do you intend, do we intend, to fashion ENISA's mandate in such a way that it can operate like an agency that deals on equal terms with the agencies that exist in the United States, Japan and China?
I should like to thank you for your recognition, following the second evaluation, of ENISA's achievements.
Nevertheless, day after day we Members of Parliament discuss this culture shift, this climate change that affects our economies, that forces us to give up our economic dependence on fossil fuels and switch to other energy sources.
Every day we put our heart and soul into these efforts here.
We all know that changing our systems is the only option.
To that end we need intelligent solutions, and we need network security, for security is paramount.
This is why I am grateful that we are holding this debate as a building block in the construction of a more robustly resourced ENISA and of greater network security.
