on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, I have great respect on a personal level for the two speakers from the Council and the Commission.
However, I think that the proposals which we have heard today and over recent days are too little, too late.
For example, the Commission's paper makes no mention at all of the word 'speculation'.
It is not that this is the main cause of the price increases, but to publish a paper today which makes no mention of speculation at all: even the G8 is more progressive than the Commission here!
As regards the substantial profits which, naturally, are also not mentioned, I have appealed to the Commissioner several times and, given that there is apparently no way of introducing control mechanisms, I have asked him at least to ensure, by means of voluntary agreements, that some of these profits are invested in energy-saving measures, the development of alternative energies, and research.
This is currently being discussed in France, for example.
However, the Commissioner has made no comment about that today, and nothing is being done.
On the issue of energy saving and consumer protection, we support this in principle, but the Commission's proposals were very weak.
It took this Parliament and the decision today, in the context of the Morgan report, to bring about a substantial expansion of consumer rights here, especially in relation to energy saving with smart meters etc.
As to the social measures which the Commissioner has proposed: all I can say is that it has been apparent for some time that social measures are required.
We have been discussing Ireland today.
Let me be frank: what makes citizens very nervous is when they get no feedback from Brussels about their specific and real concerns.
Whether the citizens concerned are fishermen in the SME sector or socially disadvantaged consumers, they want to get some kind of message from Brussels which helps them cope with their difficult situation.
We are expecting some clear signals from the Commission and the Council here, especially in the next few days.
