on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, Mr Vice-President, Minister, before I begin I should like to thank Mr°Díaz de Mera García Consuegra for his constructive and outstanding cooperation.
Our teamwork, including with colleagues from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, has been very good despite, incidentally, the isolated case where the Socialists criticised the rapporteur.
We have no misgivings at all about the expansion of Europol, which was founded in 1994 as the European Drug Unit and was converted into Europol, as we now know it, in 1999.
This is necessary to protect our population in the fight against organised crime, which does not stop at borders, whether these be sea, land or air.
In the same way, Europe's officials must be able to take action and deal with it.
It must be equally clear, however, that there are certain ground rules in police work.
Immunity of Europol officers, as is regulated in the codicil, does not make sense.
This has to be said.
It does not make sense that Europe's police officers should have more powers as Europol officers than others do.
Nor does it make sense that there are no parliamentary controls over police cooperation.
After all, we want to create an efficient authority, which can also be called to account for any mistakes it may make, and not the Sheriff of Nottingham!
The same applies to the judicial scrutiny of Europol.
It is inconceivable that a police authority in Europe should be able to act without its actions being subject to judicial review.
As a result we Liberals (our colleague Mr Pirker has perhaps misunderstood this) have introduced an amendment, whereby a revision clause is to be adopted, as Mr Fava has already stated, so that the European Parliament is able to deal with this once again six months after the Treaty of Lisbon comes into force.
As for the rest, we - that is the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, at least - also expect a clear statement from the Council here that this revision clause is being considered and included in the negotiations.
In the face of a structural majority, we would not wish to make use of Article 53 or Article 168 of the Rules of procedure, that is, referral to the Committee, because we, too, believe that we need Europol now and that its expansion should not be delayed.
However, when forced to, we must act in this way.
