Mr President, I would like to join my fellow Members in expressing thanks for the very good cooperation between the rapporteurs on this package and would like to be the first to respond to an accusation that played a major role in the German discussion about the energy package and particularly about the unbundling of production and transmission networks.
We Europeans are constantly being charged with wanting to make life difficult for large, successful companies.
I did not find any such negative orientation in the debates held in the committees - not at all.
In my view, it is a positive list that cannot be represented often enough by Brussels.
We want fair prices for energy, particularly for electricity.
We want transparent pricing, fair market conditions - including for new and smaller production companies.
We also want better conditions for decentralisation - an important precondition for the organisation of transmission networks in order to be able to effectively take account of renewable energies and efficiency.
What also matters a great deal to us is to put an end to the wastage that is occurring everywhere in the existing network structures.
If that is not a positive list of goals for this energy package, then I do not know how it could be improved.
Many fellow Members who do not agree with the majority decision by the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy say that the market, if it is functioning and is left alone politically, can achieve all these goals itself.
However, so far, the so-called energy market in Europe has pushed prices up to the highest possible level, and they are still rising.
In some countries, there is absolutely no transparency at all for price formation.
There is continuing concentration in the energy market and climate goals, environmental goals, are being met either in an unsatisfactory or at best in a mediocre way.
The unbundling of production and transmission networks is an important step towards bringing us closer to the positive goals in this energy policy.
In the light of the Irish vote last weekend, it is also undesirable for a German-French political cartel to work against the suggestions of Parliament and against the original suggestions by the Commission, as that is a classic trade-off issue.
The Germans and the French, Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, are supporting domestic companies at present.
What we want to see taken into account are the interests of consumers and the question of whether we are really future-proofing our energy sector or not.
The majority of citizens would not choose a Europe of companies but, at this point, would choose a Europe of consumer protection and fairness.
Thank you for your attention.
