Member of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me set the record straight once again.
This is not about changing the current food hygiene rules.
These rules will not be amended, even to a very minor extent, and there will be no exemptions of any kind for anyone.
In future, as now, everyone must comply with our food hygiene rules.
What we are talking about today is something entirely different.
We are talking about whether the extremely complicated and bureaucratic provisions that we currently have in place should be applied to all businesses if, in the first stage of the procedure, they are able to prove that there is absolutely no risk, or that the risk is sufficiently controlled.
That is the purpose of this proposal.
In answer to my question: the proposal only concerns those businesses which can demonstrate in the very first stage that there are no risks to food hygiene, or that such risks are sufficiently controlled.
This provision is, of course, one which will have a particular impact on small and medium-sized enterprises and especially the micro-enterprises, which will find it easy to furnish the necessary proof.
The proposal will not result in an additional burden on the authorities, unless Mr Corbett's additional amendment is adopted, which would mean that at every stage of the procedure, the authorities would have to take action.
In that case, we would have a greater administrative burden.
I would ask you to support the rapporteur's proposal.
He has indeed improved upon the Commission's original proposal.
What we are trying to achieve is quite straightforward: the existing law is currently being applied in a way that does not conform with the legislator's original intention.
With this amendment today, we will ensure that the law will be applied as originally intended by the legislator.
The Commission underlines that the amendment to the HACCP regulation does not weaken existing food hygiene requirements.
It simply serves to provide greater clarity and, thereby, more effective use of the existing flexibility provisions of the regulation in respect of reporting requirements.
The existing flexibility provisions in respect of reporting requirements do not distinguish between different size classes of companies.
However, given the nature of operations of larger food business operators, these provisions are less likely to apply to larger companies.
The amendment is, therefore, likely to be particularly beneficial for small and medium sized enterprises.
A proposed new recital makes this explicit.
The amendment does not create any additional compliance burdens for competent authorities since the responsibility to demonstrate compliance rests exclusively with food business operators.
The objective of the amendment is to reduce administrative burdens on companies through a more effective uptake of the existing flexibility provisions on reporting.
