Madam President, Commissioner, human trafficking, as we have heard, is a crime against humanity, especially against women - a new form of slavery and a highly profitable business, widely developed with an annual turnover of EUR 44 billion according to the OSCE.
It is worth discussing this at greater length as well as highlighting the various facets.
We are dealing today with trafficking in women and forced prostitution following the campaign we conducted at the 2006 World Cup in Germany.
There was also a report here in Parliament, which I was able to draw up, which dealt with forced prostitution and in which we requested various measures from the Commission.
The response was the action plan.
The question on implementation has already been asked repeatedly today and I should like to emphasise that it concerns residence permits for victims and training offensives at police training colleges, institutes for social studies and the like.
It also concerns education in the countries of origin and educational and training opportunities for women locally as well as for young men.
They, too, are increasingly affected.
Obviously 18 October is EU Anti-Trafficking Day, which we were able to hold for the first time last year.
In other respects I still cannot see much sign of the campaign.
Regard for this subject has also declined since the Red Card campaign and the World Cup.
We therefore want to give it another boost.
This is not about the ban on prostitution or discrimination against sex workers.
On the contrary!
It is about raising awareness and also seeking here to reject stigmatisation and building up a social network in order to protect sex workers in their trade as well.
Conviction of forced prostitution is vehement.
The European Football Championship in Austria and Switzerland gives us the opportunity to draw attention to this.
I can guarantee that the Austrian authorities are taking the appropriate measures.
They are pleased to invite you to a great European Championship and are hoping for fair play and fair sex.
