Mr President, I should like to congratulate the Slovenian Presidency for successfully encouraging all 27 Member States to move forward with the ratification process.
I am concerned only by the note in the minutes for the Czech Republic.
I do not know what this is in aid of, since other countries, such as Germany and the United Kingdom, also have judicial reviews under way.
Therefore, why, precisely, is there a note in the minutes for the Czech Republic?
I hope that this is not an invitation to the country to delay the ratification process and even render ratification impossible by playing domestic political games.
Perhaps you could say something on this matter.
President-in-Office of the Council, you have praised the synergies between the Commission, Parliament and the Council.
That is right and proper, but, then again, as far as communication policy is concerned, it is also wrong.
We have a deadlock that has been going on for a long time.
The Council is not prepared to participate in a common communication strategy.
It is really quite shocking to see how the pro-Europeans are helplessly at the mercy of the anti-Europeans.
The way in which this Treaty was marketed was shoddy, amateurish and totally clueless.
We now learn from this shock that we need to adopt a different dialogue strategy with the citizens.
This cannot continue.
You then rightly said that we must promote the European identity, that we must make it clear to the citizens what unites us.
The idea of creating a football team cannot be such a bad one.
Perhaps our Information Offices might also compile a list of all the Olympic medals won by citizens of the EU.
However, I believe that symbolism is one thing and substance is another.
The fact that people are afraid of Europe and do not associate Europe with any kind of hope must give us cause for concern.
There must also be some kind of change in policy here in areas such as food prices, energy prices, the credit crisis and high managers' salaries.
In many areas that give citizens cause for concern, we either get there too late or we make only half-hearted decisions.
Therefore, Europe must serve the people, it must protect the people, and then they will also support and follow us.
This is also a lesson to be learned from the Irish people's vote.
