on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the public should be able to benefit in two ways from the potential for greater road safety.
For this reason, along with the report we are discussing today, I call for more research into, and education about, the safety benefits of driver-assistance systems.
Most people have no practical experience whatsoever of these systems and cannot therefore appreciate, first of all, that driver-assistance systems possess undisputed safety potential - after all, driver error is the cause of some 80% of road accidents - secondly, that they make driving less stressful, thirdly, that they support drivers and ease the burden on them without usurping their ultimate responsibility and, fourthly, that they encourage economical and environment-friendly driving behaviour.
According to recent studies, driver-assistance systems could prevent up to one third of all serious accidents if all drivers used them.
Systems such as adaptive cruise control (ACC), lane-change assistance, and electronic stability control (ESC) are technically well developed and highly reliable.
On the other hand they, too, must undergo regular technical inspection and must be tested after major accident repairs.
Intelligent vehicle systems help to avoid risky situations altogether and, by easing the burden on drivers, are conducive to a more relaxed and foresighted driving style.
Unfortunately, these systems are not yet standard vehicle components.
In spite of Vision Zero, traffic accidents will still happen in future.
From the end of 2010 all new vehicles are to be equipped for the electronic satellite-based eCall emergency call system, so that professional help can be given within what doctors call the 'golden hour' immediately after an accident.
Through the European emergency phone number 112, the emergency call centre and the emergency services receive rapid automatic notification of an accident and its precise location.
Until the emergency services arrive, however, each of us should be able to administer first aid.
In modern vehicle cockpits, however, there is also a danger of sensory overload.
The increasingly complex operation of everyday functions such as air-conditioning, car radios and navigation systems, combined with audio and visual signals from assistance systems such as automatic parking systems, bumper-control devices, alcohol and overload interlocks and other devices can distract or even overburden drivers.
For all this potential, there remains the problem of replacing the vehicle fleet.
That is primarily an issue of affordability.
Sadly, the average age of our vehicles is increasing rather than decreasing.
Vehicles must remain affordable.
That is our responsibility.
Lastly, let me express my warmest thanks to Mrs Gurmai for her outstanding work.
