Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased to see that this debate has shown broad consensus in many respects: firstly, a broad consensus that hydrogen technology is an interesting potential way of helping to solve our energy problems; secondly, consensus that hydrogen technology is a potentially interesting option for road traffic; and thirdly, a very wide consensus that, of course, hydrogen technology in general makes sense only if the overall ecological effect is positive - that is, if hydrogen is made from clean sources of energy.
That is a very important result.
I would also like to inform you that the Commission has placed particular importance on the development of hydrogen technology in the 7th Framework Research Programme.
EUR 800 million have been made available for research into hydrogen technology, and not only for vehicles, in a joint technology initiative.
I want to avoid giving the impression that we are spending EUR 800 million to enable research into hydrogen as a fuel technology.
That is only part of the project; overall, the project is about creating clear principles in terms of the extent to which hydrogen can actually contribute to drastically reducing our society's CO2 emissions.
Along with the President of this Parliament, Mr Pöttering, I had the opportunity to drive a hydrogen powered vehicle for a time.
My personal impression was that the technical problems connected with the use of hydrogen in vehicles have basically been solved.
The technology is there.
It can be done.
What is totally lacking - and this has been mentioned several times already - is the infrastructure.
I can imagine that, once this proposal has been accepted and provided encouragement to the industry, we will then have to deal with the question that Mr Bulfon also raised in this debate.
That is the question of whether perhaps those who run large fleets of vehicles used mainly locally, such as parliaments, including this Parliament, national parliaments, governments, and the European Commission, should set a good example as soon as practicable and, through their procurement policies, facilitate the bringing onto the market of vehicles of this type.
At the moment that is still only a pipe dream, but it is something we should think about when the time comes.
Let me thank the rapporteur again for her truly excellent work, as well as all the speakers from the groups and committees, who have shown that we have a common vision here of what the future for vehicles in Europe could look like.
