Madam President, 130 000 dead and more than two million homeless: that is the bitter reality in Burma.
In addition, widespread famine is threatening.
The floods are causing diarrhoea pathogens, such as Salmonella, to spread like wildfire.
There is a high risk of illnesses such as typhoid, cholera, malaria and dengue fever.
Children, who have weaker immune systems and whose bodies dehydrate faster, are particularly endangered.
The survivors of the disaster need clean drinking water, which cannot be provided on a sustainable basis without good treatment plants.
They need emergency accommodation, not least to prevent the spread of respiratory diseases.
The military junta remains unwilling to admit Western aid workers, as Commissioner Michel just confirmed in his powerful speech.
It is thereby jeopardising the existence of tens of thousands of people.
What is the responsible approach?
Exerting pressure by petitioning the Criminal Court in The Hague?
Absolutely!
However, is there also a need to amend international law so as to restrict national sovereignty in the event of a humanitarian crisis?
That would be difficult to achieve, and the Chinese would be sure to veto it in the UN Security Council.
China is one of the few allies of the Burmese dictators.
It must, however, make every effort - and so must the Member Countries of ASEAN, as Hartmut Nassauer stated - to ensure that the international teams of experts and aid materials, which have been in place for some time now, are allowed to enter the country.
One of the reasons why Myanmar is blocking the numerous aid operations mounted by the international community is evidently a desire to influence the donors' conference in order to obtain multimillion sums and be able to use them as it sees fit.
Like the Burmese regime's contemptuous and brutal treatment of peaceful demonstrators during the Buddhist monks' revolt in September 2007 and its subsequent imposition of a news embargo lasting several months, this is a totalitarian act which is directed against the interests of the population.
This alleged exercise of national sovereignty is entirely unstatesmanlike and totally inhuman.
