on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, coming back to the actual subject of the report, let me give Mrs Budreikaitvery warm thanks for her report, which I regard as very balanced and competent.
It is also a particularly important one at this point in time because we can now take provisional stock and also draw conclusions in regard to greater development cooperation on the part of the new Member States, with particular reference to the ACP states.
Accession to the EU clearly also means an obligation under the Treaty to accept the achievements of the acquis communautaire.
It is also clear, however, that the Treaty is one thing and public awareness of a major area of policy in the various countries is another.
The statistics we have been given make that very evident.
Development cooperation with the states of Africa, Asia and Latin America often does not look like a particularly urgent issue in countries that are themselves still lagging behind in their economic development.
That is why we must jointly push for recognition of the importance of this task and urge that we continue to pursue it, looking back also at the development cooperation that certainly existed in the past with some states, in particular African countries.
Many ties that existed prior to 1989 were dissolved very quickly yet almost without a murmur.
There were also some very regrettable episodes.
A number of projects that had been started up in those countries now lie in ruins.
I think we need to make a new start here.
I am also rather sad that by agreement with the Commission, nearly all the Central and Eastern European Member States are concentrating their development cooperation on cooperation with the former Soviet republics, which sidelines the real objective of development cooperation, namely to achieve the Millennium Development Goals.
Even if the new Member States were to succeed in raising their ODA to 0.17% by 2010 as agreed, it is to be feared that only a fraction of that amount would go to development and support for the poorest countries in the world.
Once again, let me give warm thanks to Mrs Budreikaitfor her report.
