Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to congratulate Mr Özdemir on his very successful report.
The European Union joined the race for Central Asia with very hesitant steps and was late to take an interest in the region, following behind Russia, China and the USA.
Until now, Central Asia has not perceived the European Union as a global player.
An EU strategy for Central Asia is long overdue, especially as a means of reducing its energy dependence on Russia.
The German Presidency initiated it.
It is important that we now see a follow-up.
Sadly it keeps emerging that the EU still does not speak with one voice in its external energy policy.
We in Europe should focus above all on diversification, on representing our common interests and on solidarity in the event of crises.
Yet the bilateral energy agreements the EU Member States concludes with third countries keep putting in question the European Union's ability to take a common stand.
But it is in the interest of the European Union and its citizens to pursue a common external energy policy.
We must not, however, regard energy supplies, which are extremely important to our citizens, as the only reason for EU relations with that region.
We are not trying to profit unilaterally from a strategy for Central Asia.
In that respect Europe must distinguish itself from other players in the region.
It is far more a question of helping the Central Asian republics to develop the rule of law and democratic forms of society, together with a sound economy.
If Europe does that, the citizens of the region should become far more aware of it.
Yet Europe must also move with the necessary caution, because advice from the West could all too easily be mistaken for patronisation or intervention.
The world is growing closer together outside the EU too and we should seek a constructive partnership with the Central Asian countries, a partnership that does not give the impression that Europeans are concerned only with what is useful to them, a partnership founded on mutual advantage.
