Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, let me make a few more, very brief points.
Our strategy for growth and jobs, also known as the Lisbon agenda, is in fact nothing other than an attempt to compensate in the most intelligent way possible for the fact that we do not have a common economic policy in the European Union and - we are currently in the process of ratifying a new Treaty - will not have a common economic policy on the basis of the new Treaty either.
What Mr Toubon called for was, therefore, well intended, but not very realistic at the present time.
We have no option but to proceed on the basis of partnership, in order to persuade the 27 to act jointly with the Community institutions and do what is necessary to achieve our common objectives at Member State level and at European level.
Is one of our aims really to become, let us say, the most dynamic, competitive and best region in the world by the year 2010?
Way back in 2004 the Council, Parliament and the Commission said that this Lisbon objective laid down in the year 2000 would not be achieved.
The fact of not achieving it is nothing new.
We have known that since 2004.
That is why we presented an entirely revised strategy in 2005, which no longer mentions that date.
That means we should not measure the growth and jobs policy we have today by the objectives that were set out in the year 2000 and that we know cannot be achieved.
I am giving you my personal view on the subject.
I do not think the point is whether we do better than someone else at some time.
What I think is important is that we should be in as good enough a position as soon as possible to achieve the social objectives we all want to achieve in Europe.
They are: a high standard of living for all our citizens, a high level of social security for all our citizens, a high environmental standard for Europe as a whole and awareness of our global responsibility.
Those are our major social objectives.
If we want to achieve them, we will need a strong and stable economic basis, which is precisely what this strategy is aimed at.
I think Mr Rosati was right to ask about the deficits.
If he looks carefully at the country reports and at our recommendations, he will see where we have found deficits and that we have found them precisely in the areas he mentioned.
I will answer him.
Why does lifelong learning not exist in Europe as it should?
Why do we not have as much modern infrastructure throughout Europe as we should have?
Why have we not given the priority to research and development, education and training we really should have?
The answer is simply because in many Member States and at Community level too - as you all know - the financial priorities still lie elsewhere.
If we jointly decide to try to change those priorities, that would be a good thing.
It assumes, however - and I am not just saying that because the Commission's macroeconomist and great politician of stability is seated beside me but because I am firmly convinced of it - that we have a stable and solid macroeconomic framework.
Primarily that means, for instance, the consolidation of state finances.
Without solid state finances in the individual Member States it will not be possible to set new investment priorities.
On the guidelines, I understand the needs here and the Commission will be happy to continue discussing them with Parliament.
Let me just point out one thing.
Those guidelines are not a political programme as such.
They are not an action programme.
The guidelines are, if you like, the intellectual basis for the national reform programmes and for the Community's Lisbon programme.
I am speaking with complete conviction here.
The guidelines, as formulated today, make it possible to do all those things that various speakers in Parliament today called for if they are implemented in practice in the national reform programmes and in the Community's Lisbon programme.
We are quite happy to take on the very concrete challenge issued by Mr Olle Schmidt to Mr Almunia and myself, namely to check a specific incident in Sweden.
Let me just say one thing on the subject.
The Commission fully endorses a policy under which tax incentives for enterprises and entrepreneurs are also used to create jobs.
That is our policy.
Indeed, we will very soon be making a proposal on reduced VAT rates for service-intensive undertakings.
Joaquín Almunia and I do not know exactly what happened in Sweden, but we will look into it.
It seems to me that this is more of a technical than a really basic political problem, but we will clear it up and ensure that the necessary dialogue takes place.
