Madam President, I must say, I am startled at what Mr Wojciechowski has just said about Germany, and what a disturbance to the fabric of Europe Germany represents.
I have always seen it differently.
I find it odd to hear comments like that made here in the European Parliament.
Commissioner Verheugen, I believe you addressed the most important points, but there was one thing you did not mention, and that is how difficult the negotiations were this time.
It is still very early days for the Transatlantic Economic Council and expectations are, naturally, very high.
There is a lot on the 'to do' list and I personally believe that healthy realism would be appropriate, because there are some on the team who are simply overloading the Council with too many topics - including psychologically difficult matters such as the poultry issue.
My personal recommendation would be to be a little more realistic here, and perhaps to pare down the agenda.
Mr Wiersma also pointed out that it is a difficult year politically for the United States.
Here in Europe we are also facing a difficult year; in fact, it is already beginning.
Many are involved in pre-election campaigns and need to ensure that they will be re-elected and from next year we will have a different Parliament and a different Commission, so it would be good for both sides to cultivate realism so as not to get into difficulty, as has happened so often.
We should never forget why we did this.
We did it so that we could better understand what the integration of the two markets means - not that we want to integrate them, but that they are in fact already integrated.
Mrs Neyts-Uyttebroeck was right to highlight the figures.
What we would still very much like to do - and that was the goal, after all - is to remove the barriers that we can remove.
We cannot remove them all.
We will just have to live with some of them.
We live with barriers within the European market too, not all of which can be removed, yet the world does not fall apart.
We need only remove those barriers that we can remove, the ones that are difficult to live with, that are difficult for consumers to live with, the ones whose removal will create more jobs, the ones that are irrational.
Some barriers are ridiculous.
You have only to visit small businesses; they will tell you that there are some absolutely stupid barriers.
Indeed, there are many silly barriers, and those are the ones we should get rid of.
I very much hope that the Commission and Parliament will continue to work together in such a committed way.
Many problems start in Parliament or have to be dealt with by Parliament.
Therefore, thank you very much for the close cooperation, and all the best for a successful next meeting.
