on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Dr Solana, Commissioner, there are three issues involved here: human rights, nuclear weapons, and free democratic elections in Iran.
What is not an issue here today is the question of whether Mujaheddin should be blacklisted or not; we shall deal with that separately.
In the realm of human rights, the numerous and often brutal executions in Iran are a running sore as far as we are concerned.
I agree with what Mr Gahler said on this point and hope that public opinion in our countries can have a significant impact.
The second issue is that of the nuclear programme.
We stand four-square behind the views expressed by the High Representative.
We do not want nuclear weapons in Iran; we want no nuclear weapons anywhere in the region.
It was scandalous enough that many countries - including, I am sorry to say, the United States of America - stood by and watched as the bomb was developed in Pakistan and as bomb-building technology was transferred from there to Iran, because Pakistan was seen from the sole perspective of the common struggle against the Soviet Union and hence against Afghanistan too.
What we need is supervision - and I would ask you, Mr Solana, to make particular efforts in this direction - to ensure that nuclear industries, and especially their enrichment and waste-disposal operations, are more fully incorporated into multilateral frameworks and are more strictly supervised.
We must do more in this respect, because this concerns not only Iran but other countries too.
Another thing we need - and for this the Americans must be prepared to make further concessions - is the recognition of legitimate security interests, not of any government but of the Iranian nation.
That security must be guaranteed, and then we could surely make progress in our dialogue with Iran.
I likewise endorse the UN resolution, because it is a significant advance.
With regard to the elections too, Mr Solana, I can only echo your sentiments.
Elections and democracy begin to serve a purpose when elections are truly free, and if President Ahmadinejad believes he has such broad support in Iran, I can only urge him to ensure that genuine free elections can take place without external intervention, and then we shall see whether he enjoys such widespread support.
Free elections in Iran are one of the keys to the democratisation of the entire region.
(Applause)
