Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I very much hope that the main messages of this debate will reach the citizens of Europe.
The first main message of this debate, for me, is that the ECB and the euro are not the causes of the concerns and problems, but part of the solution.
The second main message is that the euro provides benefits and protection.
It benefits the citizens of the whole of the European Union, not just the euro zone, the political project of the European Union and the European Union growth and employment policy.
Apart from the internal market, the euro is the most effective answer to globalisation.
The euro and the European Central Bank do not, it is true, make us independent of global influences, but they make us much more able to deal with them.
I should therefore like to thank the European Central Bank for the steady and level-headed policy, because at a time when trust is being lost it is undoubtedly one of those that are gaining trust.
However, I should also like to say to all the Heads of State and Government on this occasion, hands off the Stability and Growth Pact, hands off the European Central Bank.
If you have internal problems and do not do your homework, it is too easy to say others are to blame.
For that reason we have to do everything possible to improve awareness and do away with the information deficit.
There is no general awareness of the connection between inflation, interest rates and price stability.
I am grateful to Mr Juncker for pointing out that indirect taxation should not be increased but reduced whenever possible.
We have to communicate the message that the euro is not responsible for higher energy and raw materials prices.
I also welcome the fact that the cooperation between the European Central Bank, the Commission and the financial services sector has contributed to the successful launch of SEPA, cross-border payments.
Let us use the sensitivity and the justified concerns and fears of the public to enter into a dialogue with them, provide answers and explain, and let us not just make complimentary speeches here.
