rapporteur. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to thank the shadow rapporteurs, and the other fellow Members in particular, who have helped in producing a good, very balanced report.
My philosophy on this report is as follows.
I might perhaps mention a visit I made a few weeks ago to Vukovar - which, as a reminder, is the town where the war was particularly brutal, where hundreds of people were dragged out of the hospital and killed.
It is a particularly painful wound for the Croatian population.
I have also seen the memorial there and I have talked to the people.
The wound goes deep, but no hatred, no rejection of neighbouring Serbia has emerged, but instead an attempt to cooperate anew with the Serbian population there.
The mayoress has sat down at the table with the Serbian representative and colleagues from other ethnic groups and together they have represented the interests of the people there.
This shows clearly - perhaps more clearly even than the fact that the country's Deputy Prime Minister comes from Serbia, which is also to be welcomed - how this country has tried passionately to overcome the schisms, conflicts and wars of the past and to create a modern Croatia.
All these things, of course, do not resolve the problems that Croatia still has to solve.
They do not resolve the issue of the reform of the judiciary or of the public administration, nor do they resolve the issue of the shipping industry - Croatia still has much to do there.
Therefore, it is simply not the case that we are ready to conclude the treaties and negotiations - absolutely not.
We are, however, on the right track, and that is something that is important for Croatia, but also for the entire region, as the region is also being sent a positive, an important signal with Croatia's accession: if you fulfil your duties and responsibilities, if you do your homework, then you can become a Member of the European Union.
The European Union has to stand by this obligation, and that is something we also make clear in this report.
In addition to the internal reforms, there are, of course, needs and a few problems, including in relations with the country's neighbours.
I was sad when it was unilaterally decided to introduce the Ecological and Fishing Protection Zone.
It was not that there were no good, substantial or objective reasons for ecological administration of the fisheries, but it did not make sound sense to take this step unilaterally at the same time as promising Italy and Slovenia that no unilateral steps would be taken before finding a common solution.
Now, Croatia has taken that not-so-easy step and the fishing zone has been abolished for the Member States of the European Union.
We in the European Parliament now believe that the preconditions exist to overcome many of the impasses there have been - I do not want to put up for discussion here whether or not these were justified.
Hence my request to Slovenia - Minister Lenarčič is here as a Council representative rather than as a Slovenian minister; he has to wear two hats - as well as to our Slovenian fellow Members in this House, is to help us overcome the bilateral problems.
Croatia must, of course, play its own part in this, as we have always said, but if we want to convey the European spirit to the regions or to bilateral relations, we need this help.
Hence, also, the proposal in the report - I am saying this now very informally - that a third person or a third institution help to solve this problem.
Whether we call it mediation or arbitration or whatever is not the crucial issue.
What is crucial is that both countries, Croatia and Slovenia, come together to decide the conditions, and that they accept the judgment to be given by the third institution, by mediation.
Things will then be on the right track.
The problems in the border area cannot be insoluble.
I perfectly appreciate Slovenia's interest in having access to the sea.
This is a perfectly justified concern.
I believe that this concern of Slovenia's is perfectly reconcilable with Croatian interests.
This is not insurmountable if we are not deeply and directly involved.
In conclusion, I wish to state clearly that I should have liked to have been able to conclude negotiations on the part of Croatia in 2008.
Unfortunately, this is no longer possible or realistic.
I would therefore ask my fellow Members to take a realistic date, 2009, as the date for the completion of negotiations, so that the newly elected Parliament will then be able to give its assent and ratification to take effect.
If we all apply ourselves, Croatia can become a Member of the European Union in 2011.
This is a fine aim, a good aim.
Let us give it our support.
