on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, the Council representative said that there is considerable controversy in the Council on this issue, and that exists in the European Parliament as well.
The background to this controversy is as follows.
It all depends on our definition of soil: is it a treasure hoard of fertility, whose purpose is to provide a source of nutrition for our crops and which forms the basis of life in an ecologically sound farming system, with a high level of CO2 capture?
Or is it simply a substance which supports plants in a system of agro-industrial production which involves the use of oil, chemical and genetic technology and has extremely hazardous climate impacts?
These are the two trends which exist, including in the European Union.
We also have soils which have been taken out of agricultural production.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development adopted an opinion which triggered a certain amount of controversy because the rapporteur who was appointed wanted to reject a directive.
The majority in committee then delivered an opinion which accorded with a sensible approach to soil management, and this has been taken on board in the report.
From an agricultural perspective, it would be extremely beneficial if this directive were adopted.
I cannot understand, let alone support, the opposition from the traditional farmers' associations.
In my view, they are shooting themselves in the foot, because farming created our cultural landscapes during the course of history and is in a position to maintain them now.
I cannot endorse the view that it would create too much red tape.
Mr Mulder, you said that this is already happening in some countries, one of them being Germany.
We do not want excessive red tape.
Why should these examples which you have cited not be incorporated into a framework directive with a clear principle of subsidiarity, taking account of regional, cultural, social and climatic conditions, so that decisions can be made at grassroots level as to what is necessary and what is not?
