Vice-President of the Commission. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, taken together, the European Union and the United States have 60% of the world's gross domestic product and 40% of world trade.
Transatlantic commercial services and revision flows amount to USD 3 billion a day.
Transatlantic economic relationships create jobs for 14 million people.
That is the scale of what we are talking about here today.
In April 2007 the European Union and the United States signed a framework agreement to strengthen transatlantic economic integration between the United States and the European Union.
This agreement is based on recognising not only that the European Union and the United States are each other's most important economic partners but also that we have common interests and challenges and share a wide range of shared values, such as a commitment to free trade and openness for investment, a commitment to free, undistorted competition, respect for property rights, including intellectual property rights, and effective protection for consumers, employees and the environment.
The transatlantic agreement is a strengthening of our shared commitments to achieving closer economic cooperation and speeding up the dismantling of transatlantic barriers to trade and investment.
The Transatlantic Economic Council was created to ensure that this cooperation will function.
Its goal is to dismantle barriers to a true transatlantic market.
At the same time, however, we are also involved with common challenges in our relationships with other countries.
The Transatlantic Economic Council has already proved a valuable forum for strategic dialogue on how to proceed in relation to China and in relation to state funds.
The product security of imported goods and the assertion of intellectual property rights in third countries are specific examples of practical cooperation in specific matters.
The biggest barrier to trade between our highly developed economies is different rules and approaches to regulation.
Non-tariff barriers to trade have been virtually eliminated in the eight major world trade rounds over the last 60 years.
Non-tariff barriers, such as unnecessarily strict regulations and administrative procedures that limit trade, are now the main type of barrier.
These barriers are often less visible and more complex, and they can be very politically sensitive, as they are frequently the result of deliberate internal political decisions.
The good news for us is that the United States, which in the past was always very sceptical of regulations that it had not passed itself, is increasingly open to international cooperation on regulatory issues, especially with us.
The decision by the US Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) to accept the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) was a historic step forward.
As the European Chair of the Transatlantic Economic Council, I have grasped an important concept in these early stages.
Transatlantic cooperation is not possible without political leadership.
To agree that it is desirable to have a market without trade barriers is one thing; but as soon as we begin tackling specific barriers, we find that economic integration requires a great deal of hard work, patience, perseverance and, as I said, political leadership.
By the way, it was the same when we wanted to make the European internal market a reality.
I recall that 30 years of economic and political integration paved the way for our European internal market project.
Changing existing regulations and ingrained procedures is not always popular.
There will always be groups who, thanks to the status quo, do not have to surrender their privileges.
Some group always feels threatened on its home ground.
When we give in and ease off this pressure, losing sight of the advantages for the European economy as a whole, then we are sealing ourselves off and putting our collective head in the sand.
Today I would like to point out not only that economic integration and reducing the regulatory load are being hindered by existing regulations, but also that new statutory initiatives can undermine the desired goal.
One example is the act by the US Congress that proposes prior checking of 100% of the freight that leaves our ports destined for the United States.
Naturally, this is something that will be discussed within the framework of the Transatlantic Economic Council.
The Transatlantic Economic Council's next meeting is next Tuesday, here in Brussels.
It will be the first meeting on European soil.
The Americans are bringing a large number of government politicians.
We have a broad agenda that will feature progress in many areas.
As at our first meeting, in Washington, this meeting will continue the strategic dialogue.
The topics planned are the integration of Russia into the world economy, the question of how to respond to the growing dangers of protectionism and, most especially, what conclusions we can all draw from the crisis in the financial markets.
As you can see, we cover a very broad spectrum.
The Parliaments on both sides of the Atlantic have a major role to play in the whole process.
I am very grateful to the European Parliament for the keen interest it has shown in this process.
I am also grateful to the European Parliament for the close contacts it maintains with Congress and I must say that as Members of Parliament, you have a very important task, because much of what we want to, and can, agree upon politically then has to be formalised in law.
For that to happen, we need approval from Congress in the United States and from you in Europe.
This is also the reason why the statutory dialogue is included in the overall project.
To close, let me point out that the approach recently chosen is very different from all previous attempts, all of which failed, more or less spectacularly, and that both sides are convinced that it is the most promising approach so far in terms of achieving real change.
It is important to have permanent political scrutiny and a clear allocation of responsibilities for the initiatives, as initiatives were taken in the past but unfortunately did not achieve the goal.
Therefore, it is very important to clarify the point that this is an exercise in cooperation that is not being put together in a hurry.
It is a long-term project.
Both sides are fully agreed that neither the lifespan of the current US Government, whose term of office expires next January, nor the lifespan of the current European Commission, whose term of office expires in November next year, can be allowed to play a role in the medium- or long-term planning of this work.
We are absolutely determined to ensure that this project will extend beyond legislative terms and terms of office.
