on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, to the many thank-yous we have heard I should like to add a very special one of my own.
I was responsible for the framework directive in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, and it is thanks to the political instincts of Catherine Trautmann in media matters and her ability to work in a very structured and systematic manner that we in Parliament have perhaps been able to prevent the pursuit of a misguided media policy through the report on the framework directive.
We shall see.
Commissioner, in my view, Parliament has made crucial changes to the draft framework directive as regards competition law but also, and more especially, on frequency-trading.
I found that your initial proposals for the framework directive were purely market-focused and vastly overestimated the digital dividend.
Thankfully, these proposals did not appeal to the members of the Committee on Culture and Education or, subsequently, to the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
On the contrary, my fellow Members put public cultural and political interests and the general public good at the heart of their deliberations, and I believe this is reflected most clearly in the following elements of the Trautmann report:
Radio frequencies are defined as a public good and will also remain the responsibility of the Member States.
Priority will be given to broadcasting in particular but also to opinion-forming services.
Your attempt to force broadcasting onto the defensive has failed, Commissioner.
It will be easier to introduce pan-European services - that is a good thing, as I am sure you will agree.
The Member States will also have primary responsibility for further harmonisation of frequencies.
If there are difficulties, decisions will not be taken by the Commission alone - Parliament will also be involved.
BERT will play a major role.
It goes without saying, as far as I am concerned, that its funding must be European.
I hope we shall manage to ensure that it is.
Besides the framework directive and the point about frequencies, I would also like to say something about two other reports, beginning with the Harbour report.
In your report, Mr Harbour, there really are some very good provisions for consumers and consumer interests.
Greater consideration will be given in future to the interests of people with disabilities, for example.
I also believe that you even contribute to media pluralism through your proposed rules on mandatory services.
My group does not agree, however, with the attempt that is made in the report to regulate copyright too.
We do not like that at all.
Neither the French model - and this is addressed to the Council Presidency too - nor the 'three strikes' model has our support - on the contrary.
This attempt does not allay any of our concerns about copyright or about the protection of privacy on the Internet.
Let me conclude with a few words on the Alvaro report.
You have spoken with great conviction once again, Mr Alvaro, about data privacy.
I find, as you have suggested in your speeches, that there is no consistent line yet on matters such as the protection of IP addresses.
Our experience of the telecoms scandal and the trade in addresses through call centres has shown that IP addresses must be given maximum protection, and I hope that we shall reach agreement to that effect within the next fortnight.
