on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats I expressly support the proposal that the Council has put forward for integrating Europol into the framework of the European institutions, on several grounds.
Firstly, because we will have a new legal foundation, which will save us lengthy ratification procedures and therefore make it possible for Europol to adapt quickly and flexibly to new situations, and secondly, because not only will the protocols be adopted, but jurisdiction will be extended to encompass preparatory data and data on procurement of funds, because the operating appropriations are being increased, because the funding comes from the EU budget and therefore greater independence is established for Europol as well and better monitoring opportunities are provided for us as Parliament and last but not least, because in future, data protection will also continue to be safeguarded at a very high level.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his very realistic amendments, particularly as regards the tasks of the mixed committee, the immunity of Europol employees in their operational commitments, the role of Parliament in appointing the Director and also particularly as regards data protection.
He has done an excellent job here on Parliament's behalf.
If all these proposals are accepted, Europol will become more effective, more flexible and more manageable.
I have no sympathy for the Liberals' proposal to postpone all these measures to strengthen Europol to provide more security in the interest of citizens until the Treaty comes into force.
We need security now, which means we need Europol now.
We have to do the work now and then we shall certainly deal with the subject once again - should it be necessary - after the Treaty has come into force.
I would therefore ask the Liberals to reconsider their proposal and if possible withdraw the amendment.
