Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if you have followed the debate this morning, you will have noticed that this Treaty is accompanied by great expectations.
First there is the expectation that it should be ratified and enter into force.
Then there is the expectation that it will put the European Union in a better position to live up to its task in the world, a position from which it will be able to deal with the consequences of globalisation, and so on and so forth.
I would like to add a further expectation to this: I believe and hope that the Treaty offers another opportunity to take a further step towards reconciling the European Union with its citizens, as there is a gap between the Union and its citizens.
This gap was highlighted by the referendums in France and the Netherlands, and it needs to be closed.
The Union needs the endorsement of its citizens, and the new Treaty offers good opportunities for this.
It gives the national parliaments the opportunity to participate in creating legislation.
Within the framework of subsidiarity, it includes national parliaments, and quite rightly.
Therefore, because approval from citizens depends, among other things, on the allocation of tasks between the EU and the Member States being clearer than it has been until now, and managed in a more balanced way.
The national parliaments have a contribution to make here.
I do not see us as competing with the national parliaments, but I believe that we must cooperate.
I am of the opinion that the national parliaments should also make use of these opportunities.
I want to challenge them outright to do so.
It will be fascinating to see whether or not this new instrument for monitoring subsidiarity is effective.
One further point: if we look at the European Union from outside, we see an example of regional cooperation, successful regional teamwork, of which there is only one other example in the whole world, and it is not nearly as successful or advanced as the EU: the ASEAN states.
As regards ASEAN, they keep a close eye on the European Union as they attempt to cooperate and make a contribution to peace and security in the world.
