Mr President, Mr Jarzembowski, the reason the state of Hamburg now has a black-green government is so that the Conservatives can learn a thing or two about all this.
That is excellent.
I would first like to congratulate Mrs Ţicău, as it is her first report.
She did a very good job, as of course, did Mr Grosch, of whom Parliament has come to expect good reports.
I was somewhat startled by the questions put from outside.
We are not trying to reinvent road transport with these three reports, but rather to determine how best to organise it and also ultimately how to raise the safety criteria, because there are a great many companies that want to use the roads.
Finally, we are also interested in how social protection is connected with all this.
The freeing up of cabotage should not really pose any problems either.
As has already been mentioned, unladen journeys are of no benefit to anybody.
They make no sense at all.
However, we do need to ensure that the situation does not get completely out of control.
Therefore, it would make sense for us to resolve tomorrow that we will check, in 2012, what has happened by then, and how everything has developed, so that we build in some reserve, as it were - and there is an amendment in this vein by Mr Grosch, which we support.
By 2014, when everything is supposed to launch fully, it also should be provided with a safety clause.
In the event that serious disruption to the market does occur, a Member State can then say 'We are pressing the emergency button and going to the Commission.
This is a case that requires a remedy.'
My final point concerns the 12-day rule.
I have always supported it; we supported it at the time.
Now, however, a new situation has arisen, in which the unions and the hauliers have reached an agreement.
That could cause problems with the amendments.
Therefore, tomorrow, we would be very much in favour of postponing by a month acceptance of the report that contains the part about coaches and deal with it later, in June, when it is fully ready.
To do it that way would make sense and would also involve the industry.
