Madam President, Commissioner, may I say to Caroline Jackson that I am unhappy with the compromise, but that is not because of any flaw in Mrs Jackson's negotiating skills.
On this occasion, I have to say to Stavros Dimas that my displeasure is directed at the Commission for a change.
In the case of aircraft, industry and motor vehicles, the Commission is extremely strict, haggling for every gramm by which it can reduce CO2 emissions, and rightly so.
In the case of waste-management policy, however, CO2 does not enter the equation at all.
The evidence points to a potential cut of 100 million tonnes of CO2.
That is a golden opportunity, but it has been squandered in this document.
My second cause for regret is that we have become a kind of concreting firm.
We concrete over the divergences in Europe instead of aiming for harmonisation.
Although we define targets, they are not binding.
Over the next 20 years we shall not obtain any genuine harmonised targets in Europe.
That is what disturbs me about this report.
Twenty years is almost half a generation.
We ought to have been far more innovative, and we could have been.
I believe, Commissioner, there is only one major problem, namely Article 14.
I would be delighted if you could say some more about that provision.
In a federal state, it may be a highly complex matter.
It is about the question of mixed or unmixed waste management and how it is dealt with in accordance with the principle of self-sufficiency.
I beg you earnestly to comment on this matter again in your concluding explanations.
At the present time, of course, one or two people are saying that we shall secure a large majority, but, if these questions are not resolved, some of the large countries will undoubtedly agonise over their vote.
Please consider that we do not only have tomorrow's reading; we have a third reading too, and 64 amendments on the table are quite a lot for a conciliation procedure.
So if you take the opportunity, Commissioner, to explain one or two things about these unresolved issues, I could imagine that we might reach a successful outcome.
