Mr President, may we thank you very warmly for your European speech.
Your presence here and your speech have made it clear that Slovenia and the Slovenian Presidency under Prime Minister Janus Janša - and I see two ministers sitting here: Janez Lenarčič and Janez Podobnik - want to work closely with the European Parliament.
As the President of Slovenia, you convey that message with particular resonance.
Our experience here in the European Parliament has shown us that it is not the size of the country - small, large or medium-sized - that determines whether an EU Presidency will be successful; it is the spirit guiding the Presidency that counts.
I think we can safely say that because Slovenia - and its President - are motivated by such a European spirit, this is a Presidency which will take Europe forward, and we would like to express our warm thanks to you for that.
(Applause)
We would also like to thank you for supporting the European Parliament's priorities.
Let me mention just two that you have talked about.
The first is climate protection.
If we stick to the timetable, we will complete our work so that there is an EU position for the UN Summit in Copenhagen in December 2009.
We would also like to thank you for your appeal for human rights, for if we, as the European Parliament, do not champion the cause of human rights, who will do so?
So often, governments are guided by other interests - which is understandable - but we must find a way of dovetailing these interests and our values skilfully in a way which genuinely benefits people, and that is why human rights are at the heart of our policies here in the European Parliament.
Mr President, thank you for visiting the European Parliament.
You will be staying with us for a little longer.
Once again, on behalf of the House, may I express my sincere thanks to you personally and to the Slovenian Presidency.
We wish you every success for the rest of the six months during which Slovenia is at the helm of the European Union.
If you succeed, we all succeed, and by that I mean the European Union.
That is our common goal.
Thank you.
That concludes the formal sitting.