on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, first of all my sincere congratulations to Reino Paasilinna, our rapporteur, as well as to Commissioner Figeľ.
That we carried this off here in such a short time was truly a crowning achievement!
The rapporteur has been diligent and circumspect and has very much included us all.
I should also like, however, to offer very particular congratulations here to the President of the Commission, Mr Barroso.
We must indeed be very clear that this project was his own initiative in January 2005.
We have got it up and running in three years.
That is awesome.
We are fast in Europe and this, it must be said at least once at this point, is a crowning achievement by us.
It took only three years, although it was indeed a critical subject.
We have to get involved through education.
Education lies at the heart of cultural and educational sovereignty in the Länder of Germany, the country I know best and of course, the Member States are keeping a close eye on it.
We have nevertheless managed to wangle a compromise.
I refer to the finances.
We wrestled for a long time over the question of where the money should actually come from.
In addition, we managed to set the EU budget at the first attempt from beginning to end.
In the past it was just: subsidy, subsidy, subsidy.
You are familiar with the debates.
Now, though, for the first time, it is: innovation instead of subsidy!
That is awesome!
I should like to thank my colleagues on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development very specifically, because they had to agree to and then make compromises here.
We have also been able to resolve disputes very quickly, such as the issues of how independent the EIT should be, how long the pilot phases should last, what the EIT's relationship should be to the Seventh Research Framework Programme, cannibalisation and even what is referred to as the 'EIT label', i.e. the issue of whether everything should be shown on this label when a project is launched under an EIT flag.
We have resolved all of this.
Now to implementation.
At present - as Commissioner Figel' has said - the Governing Board is being prepared, and the European Parliament (thank you for including us) will be considering who will be sitting on the Board, because we regard this as very, very important.
The subjects will also have to be selected, however.
Mr Swoboda has just been addressing the subject of energy.
In fact we should be focussing on Europe's overall response to climate change as well as managing the EIT and therefore, for example, the issue of energy efficiency etc.
However, we must also talk about the location.
I still regard Strasbourg as a choice location.
This has never been raised so clearly before, but we do have to address it once and for all.
This building is a choice location for an EIT and for a European Research Council.
Strasbourg could become 'Scienceburg', and we should all be taking up this cause.
