Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we all feel the same about the situation on the European internal market.
We do not yet have a European internal market; we have national markets and we have monopolies or small groups exerting control over national markets.
We have a situation where energy prices are rising every day and we are dependent on imported energy.
We all see the situation in the same light and we also agree on the goal.
Many Members have spoken about this.
We want more competition, falling prices, and more investment in transmission networks.
We want interconnectors to be extended in order to permit cross-border exchange.
We do not want the market to concentrate around only a few large suppliers.
The big question is how we want to achieve that, and that is where we come to a parting of the ways.
Many Members, including some who have spoken today, believe that ownership unbundling is the universal remedy.
I say that if we go down this road only, then we are not seeing the full picture.
This is not the way to go!
Allow me to refer to certain countries; Mrs Grossetête also mentioned the situation there.
In Spain, two companies, Endesa and Iberdrola, produce 48.3% and 28% of the electricity respectively.
In Sweden, Vattenfall is boss, also producing almost 48% of the electricity generated; while in Italy the market is concentrated around ENEL, which has a 43.9% market share.
Nobody can tell me that ownership unbundling will achieve what we want, which is to break up the market and create competition.
Therefore, I would ask all fellow Members to support Amendments 165 and 168 tomorrow rather than continuing to see only half the picture.
As for everything else in the Morgan report, I find it very satisfactory.
My compliments to Mrs Morgan; she has shown a great deal of energy and commitment.
However, on that particular matter, I think we should also open a second way for the countries that have unbundled in a different manner.
Countries in which the state still owns 100% of the production and transmission systems - such as Sweden, for example - should not be required to change this.
However, nobody can say that tomorrow we will be passing a package that includes equal competitive conditions.
That is a fallacy.
