on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, setting up the CARS 21 High Level Group was exactly the right thing to do.
The results speak for themselves.
We had two representatives of Parliament in this Group - Malcolm Harbour and Garrelt Duin - and they produced some very good work.
As the shadow rapporteur for this report in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, I only wish to deal with the environmental issues.
However, as a member of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy too, I am firmly convinced that preserving and increasing the competitiveness of the European automotive industry is closely tied to the question of how eco-friendly and environmentally sustainable vehicles stamped 'made in Europe' will be in the future.
I therefore welcome the fact that we were quick in implementing the Euro 5 and Euro 6 standards for motor cars and that the Commission proposal for a Euro 6 standard for goods vehicles has now been put forward.
This source-based legislation will enable us to help the towns, cities and communities of Europe to meet the particulate emission targets that have been set and in this way to provide a better air quality.
However, it remains a mystery to me that when it comes to emissions reduction people are always trying to postpone the 2012 deadline set for the introduction of the CO2 legislation and move it back to 2015.
That is not right.
We have had the Bali Climate Conference, where Europe put forward a very assertive front.
However, when it comes to the actual legislation we always take a nifty step backwards.
Car manufacturers have known since 1995 that something had to be done in the area of research and development to produce environment-friendly models.
I think that a set-up time of 12 years would be sufficient to achieve the 120 g/km target by 2012, and this includes any complementary measures.
That is something quite important.
Climate change will certainly not wait for us, which means that we have to act now.
It is also important to ensure that CO2 output will have peaked by the year 2015 so that we can then set about reducing these emissions.
Here every industry will have to play its part, including the vehicle manufacturers.
