Mr President, Commissioners, the debate on the gas market and gas supply networks that was held in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs was not ideologised to that extent.
We in the ECON Committee reached our decision very coherently and by a large majority.
Clearly, the emerging compromise on network unbundling is not to be seen in such ideological terms.
Our report places much greater emphasis on the question of how suitable the national approval procedures really are, realistically, when it comes to ensuring future progress in the field of cross-border networks, network development and network investment.
We believe that there is still much catching-up to be done here and regret for example that in the position adopted in plenary very little emphasis has been placed on the need to accelerate the approval process at national level.
A second aspect that appears important to us is the question of the regulator.
States would be very much more prepared to accept a regulator if the latter were given a large measure of independence.
Contractual concerns have been voiced in this regard.
However, looking at everything in regulatory terms it is only possible to argue in favour of a regulator if such an office would also have appropriate powers of intervention.
Still on this particular subject I would again express sincere thanks to my colleague Mr Buzek.
We have been having an integrated discussion on the subject of energy policy and Mr Buzek has put forward some very constructive proposals as part of the SET-Plan.
As rapporteur for CCS demonstration I too will be supporting this with solid funding proposals.
After such a heated and ideological debate I think that we should now give priority to the question of exactly what these concrete steps should be.
This means that we now have a transition period in which we also have to examine whether the proposed measures actually work.
To me this seems to be much more important than any ideology-laden discussion of network ownership.
