rapporteur. - Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the European Commission, ladies and gentlemen, operations under the Security and Defence Policy are becoming more dangerous.
That has been shown by the fact that for the first time a soldier has been killed during an operation under European command.
Gilles Polin was killed on the border between Chad and Darfur.
We must, therefore, consider whether some of those risks can be avoided.
They arise as a result of the wrong kind of command structures, but also when the necessary equipment is not available for specific operations.
When we consider this matter, we start with Javier Solana's broad approach to security strategy, which covers the armed forces and also the European Union's critical infrastructure, its external borders and humanitarian operations as well.
Here we keep finding weaknesses in the area of space, satellite-based reconnaissance, satellite-based telecommunications and satellite-based navigation.
If we cooperate more closely in this area, we will be able to spend our money more usefully and achieve greater efficiency.
I will start with reconnaissance.
We have the Helios reconnaissance satellites, the German SAR Lupe ones and the Italian Cosmo-Skymed.
It is vital to ensure that the imagery received from these reconnaissance satellites is actually available to our satellite centre in Torrejón.
Then there is the MUSIS project, planned for the future.
In the report I urge that this project eventually be brought within an appropriate European framework.
Then we have satellite navigation, the Galileo project.
The report states quite clearly that the Galileo project should also be available in future for military operations, because our military forces that plan and conduct such operations need Galileo to give them directions.
That brings me to telecommunications, which must also be satellite-based.
Closer cooperation can be of great benefit here.
I also regard software-defined radio as a joint project that offers great opportunities; it sets a common standard for protected telecommunications that could lead to interoperability between armed forces on the one hand and the police on the other, and also with the forces that have to stand by for disaster aid.
We also need space surveillance to monitor our space infrastructure and protect our satellites.
Here we should develop a common European system.
We need an early warning system for ballistic missiles and for communications and electronic intelligence.
A word on financing.
We note that we are already spending a sizeable amount of the European budget on security, firstly on security research, secondly on GMES, the satellite observation system, which also has security connotations, and now on Galileo.
We are in fact spending EUR 750 m of the budget on security aspects.
Perhaps we should consider whether European budget funds could not also be made available for the other planned projects I mentioned.
