Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, just to clarify, sadly, many more than 8 000 people die each year on our roads.
The figure of 8 000 relates to road fatalities in the most vulnerable group: pedestrians and cyclists.
Furthermore, it relates to the year 2004 and applies to the EU-25.
Therefore, the real number is higher.
Secondly, I agree with those who say that a lot more could be done to protect this most vulnerable group, by taking measures in the area of traffic management, road safety, road infrastructure and road rules.
The Commission agrees wholeheartedly and supports this too.
However, at this point we are talking about the technical possibilities offered by the vehicles themselves.
Thirdly, therefore, in the high-level 'CARS 21' group (Competitive Automotive Regulatory System for the 21st century), which discussed the future of the European automotive industry and made recommendations, there was complete clarity regarding the fact that, in the long term, the European automotive industry can be successful only if it offers not only the best and cleanest cars in the world in technical terms, but also the safest cars.
Therefore, the measures that we are agreeing on today have the support of European vehicle manufacturers.
Finally, I agree with those who say that this is not the last word on the matter.
We must keep a close eye on technical possibilities.
I myself have already seen the technology of the future in development and have even been able to test it in some vehicles.
These new technical possibilities such as automatic distance control and automatic obstacle recognition are already available in some top-of-the-range vehicles.
However, they are not available to the majority.
Nevertheless, we can already see where this is all leading and that we will be able to talk about the next steps in a few years' time.
Thank you for the broad support that the Commission proposal has found in this Chamber.
I believe we are truly making a very useful and important contribution to road safety in Europe.
