rapporteur. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank the Slovenian Presidency, too, as it has done everything it can right up until the last minute to ensure that this programme is able to be implemented on time.
I should also like to thank all my fellow Members, of course, because we have demonstrated once again here how effective European legislation can actually be.
When you think that the report was only introduced in January and that tomorrow we shall be voting on it, then you see that this House, the Presidency and the Commission are able to work together very effectively.
We can be extremely proud of this.
I should also like to thank the Secretariat of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy, as it is not easy to negotiate a relatively complex matter in such a short space of time, to prepare and implement the basic principles accordingly.
We are very happy that Slovakia, the United Kingdom and - at the last minute - Luxemburg, which we did not know about until yesterday, have expressed a wish to join this programme in recent weeks.
I shall also be tabling an oral amendment on this tomorrow, and I would ask the Presidency that Luxembourg therefore be considered tomorrow when the Member States are named, so that small and medium-sized enterprises in Luxemburg, too, are able to take part in this programme successfully.
During the negotiations, we in Parliament have been emphasising a transparent and above all unbureaucratic, but efficient programme for promoting research.
This should also, in particular, make possible our very earnest wish for one-off payments to be made and quick decisions taken, so that enterprises raise the funds needed to carry out research activities and do not take out a bank loan in advance, and then often have to wait a very long time for the money.
I believe, Commissioner Potočnik, that this programme is a sign of better regulation, that we have really succeeded here in implementing the objectives concerning SMEs and better regulation under the Seventh Framework Research Programme appropriately.
Participation and management by Eureka is also exemplary, as Eureka is able to make very efficient and rapid decisions on this as well as ultimately bearing a large share of the responsibility.
The Community ultimately provides up to one third of the support.
Commissioner, as you have already said, we are talking about up to EUR 100 million.
New to the programme is also the fact that this is a genuine bottom-up programme, and therefore comes from the business community, from the small, research-intensive or medium-sized enterprises.
I am actually proud of the fact that the Eurostat Secretariat in Brussels is operating on the market here very efficiently and very quickly in close cooperation with the national funding agencies, and that it is therefore also becoming possible to focus on market-oriented research activities aiming at short- and medium-term commercial results.
This is a key element of the work of small and medium-sized enterprises, and it should be cost-effective.
High costs should not be incurred in the process for either the enterprises or the authorities; instead, everything should be clearly and coherently worded in order that each individual enterprise is also able to respond to the questions asked as part of its activities without a huge outlay.
We have recently checked this.
It has been a great success.
