Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me thank Mr Liese, the rapporteur, for his helpful and considerate collaboration.
This gives me great hopes for the forthcoming energy package that we shall be producing here in this House and then in association with the Council, and all to be done in this legislative term.
The present compromise shows that Europe is now taking climate change seriously.
This compromise, which transcends national boundaries, is also an indication that internationally we are making progress when it comes not just to climate protection but to energy efficiency too.
I am particularly pleased that all aircraft above 5.7 tonnes are included in the measures and that certain aircraft, such as corporate jets, are not excluded.
The public would not have understood it if we had provided exemptions for privileged groups.
We have had many hearings in this House in recent weeks and months on the subject of climate change.
Every single expert has said that we need to halt the trend for emission levels and we need to do it in the coming decade.
With this compromise we have succeeded in stopping the trend in the aviation sector.
In 2012 we shall introduce an upper limit of 97% in the allocation of certificates, which will be reduced to 95% from 2013.
This will halt the trend in this specific sector, where emission levels have been rising rapidly, increasing by 73% between 1990 and 2003.
We can then set about achieving a trend reversal.
Some of my fellow Members have already mentioned this: 85% of the certificates will be allocated free of charge, while 15% will be auctioned.
I would have preferred a more ambitious approach here.
However, this is a compromise that everyone can now live with and a compromise is better than going to third reading.
The revenue should be used to combat climate change and to fund adaptation measures.
This is explicitly stated in the directive.
I would once more call on Member States to actually employ the money for this purpose and not to use it for plugging holes in some budget or other.
These revenues must be allocated appropriately, otherwise they will be perceived as an additional tax.
I particularly welcome the fact that the directive is to be reviewed in 2014, which will allow us to establish whether we need to make readjustments somewhere or can adopt a more ambitious approach.
During the legislative process for NOx emissions I supported the introduction of a multiplier system.
That is now my question to the Commissioner: when will the Commission be presenting a legislative proposal in this regard?
