Madam President, I do apologise for my late arrival.
There are some very long distances to walk in this building and the lifts can be very slow sometimes.
The matter we are discussing today and will vote on tomorrow is not necessarily a question of left or right - although it is true that we also have that type of debate in this Chamber - but rather a disputed question about what instruments will achieve our goal.
We are agreed on the goal, and Mrs Niebler has just underlined it: we want more competition on the European market; we want prices to be more transparent; we want pricing that is easy to understand.
The instruments to achieve this vary greatly, however.
I am among those who proceed on the basis that the option of finding a third way can also be an instrument.
We have included these suggestions here and emphasised repeatedly that this has not only initiated the third way, the Council's original suggestion, but that we have also introduced additional regulatory components because the third way that came to us from the Council was not enough for us.
From this angle, we should talk about it again, take stock of ourselves and allow this second and third way as an additional option.
What is even more important is that we in Europe achieve uniform regulations, and that the regulatory authorities in the Member States are given consistent competences and independence to implement what we decide here, because in the end, they are the ones who have to respond on the ground.
Recent weeks have given us two succinct examples of the Commission's function of overseeing cartels and competition, although the timing does allow pause for thought.
However, a company that violates antitrust law deserves to be punished; that is all there is to it.
I do not make any concessions here.
Nevertheless, we should discuss whether ownership unbundling is really the instrument we should be equipping ourselves and the regulators with, or whether we should offer more flexibility.
I hope that tomorrow's vote will be such that we still achieve a compromise.
Otherwise, we will definitely have to work with the Council to seek and find a compromise.
Thank you very much and apologies again for being late.
