Madam President, Mr Barroso, you will be aware that I am very attached to the economy, the environment and our common policy.
You went a little further today in developing the vision outlined by Angela Merkel and the Heads of State or Government.
The vision they set out last spring was perfectly apt.
It came at the right time.
Now, however, it has to be fleshed out, and in that respect you have not let the whole cat out of the bag.
I have not heard too many figures today.
I should like to hear some of those, because we want to solve this problem together with the interested parties, not in spite of them.
The programmes you have presented over the past fortnight, along with today's programme, will drastically alter Europe's economic and industrial policies.
It is for that very reason that I believe we need far more shoulders and must not rely solely on the main pillars.
I must confess to a degree of disappointment, Mr Dimas, that waste-management policy, and particularly waste-disposal policy, does not play much of a part in this programme.
In Europe we could reduce CO2 emissions by millions of tons for the benefit of our major export industries if only we were courageous enough.
Have we not all learned in the last two years that we are facing far more than a climate problem?
In future we shall have a resource problem.
Our children will ask us awkward questions, Commissioner, Mr President, if we do not adopt a bolder approach.
We must, of course, play fair by companies and environmental organisations, and I strongly endorse the five priorities you have set.
We cannot put our exporting companies into a straitjacket yet expect them to outperform their competitors.
That is not possible.
We have to get on with what needs to be done - to get butter on the fish, as we say in my dialect.
As far as the emissions-trading system is concerned, it is, when all is said and done, the best-known and the time-tested system.
We must learn from our mistakes, but we must keep it tight.
We shall be doing no one any favours if we concede too much.
It must be tight, and it must be fair.
Then I shall be right behind you.
The European Union should not be so terribly afraid of the subject of climate change.
We should take it as an opportunity, an opportunity for our environment, for our industry and, in particular, for future generations.
(Applause)
