Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, during the public minutes of silence ordered by the Chinese authorities, people stood still - people in the streets, on buses and in shops - and their facial expressions left no doubt of the sincerity of their feelings.
It was quite different from the normal compulsory collective demonstrations of solidarity.
Why was that?
Because state television was able to report round the clock, evoking a profound sense of shock at the unimaginable suffering of the people in the stricken areas.
That inspired a new sense of solidarity in China.
Respect for the individual has become apparent again, even among political leaders.
The only great national focal points had hitherto been China's economic growth and, more recently, the Olympic Games, but in the light of the present disaster, these things almost fail to register any more with many people.
What should the international community do?
This question has already been answered to some extent: besides sending aid materials, disaster plans and, of course, technical equipment, there is a need to pool the experience gathered in the aftermath of the major earthquakes in Armenia, where more than 100 000 lives were lost and a nuclear power plant was damaged, in Turkey, where tens of thousands lost their lives, and in China in 1976, where several hundred thousand people died, and to use that collective experience to develop principles of good practice for the international community and apply them for the benefit of China.
I know it has been mentioned that what could happen to dams in particular should make us examine the earthquake resistance of public buildings, hospitals and schools.
There is much that can be done in this respect, and appropriate indications can be given as to which rules should apply to the building of earthquake-proof structures.
As a member of the Delegation for Relations with China, I naturally subscribe to the messages of condolence conveyed by the previous speakers.
