on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, we know that trafficking in women for the purpose of sexual exploitation has to be outlawed and combated throughout the world.
It is a scandal not worthy of a Europe of values and human rights.
We also know that trafficking in women no longer stops at borders.
We therefore need a European, a global response to the problem, but one that must go far beyond border controls and repression alone.
In principle it is a positive sign that this topic has been on the agenda for around 10 years, but the focus lies too one-sidedly on border controls; prevention and victim protection are unfortunately neglected too much.
Nor is any all-clear being given.
More and more people - girls and women - are becoming victims of sexual exploitation although, as Mrs Gröner has already mentioned, there was no sign of the feared increase at the 2006 World Cup.
We do know, however, that the estimated number of unreported cases is high.
There are too few crackdowns against human traffickers and too few proceedings against unscrupulous criminals.
The European Commission has also confirmed this in response to a question I raised in Parliament.
We are focussing on better victim protection, not just in Germany, but in Europe.
In this regard I find it somewhat regrettable that the Commission can apparently find only fine words to say and is not really doing anything to improve matters.
How the Commission is agitating for the implementation of the Directive on protection of the victims of trafficking in the Member States is not transparent, nor is its implementation being monitored.
I find it extremely regrettable that the Commission merely points to a study in response to my second question in Parliament on how the Directive on protection of the victims of trafficking is implemented in Germany.
I would ask the Commission ultimately to take a very firm stand on whether the directive has been properly implemented, not only in Germany, but also in the other EU Member States.
It cannot therefore be true that the Commission does not know whether its own legislation has been properly implemented!
This would be a sign of inadequacy.
On migration, we should be looking not only at the subsequent migration of family members, but also at the possibilities of how women can migrate legally so that they do not have to place themselves in the hands of human traffickers.
