Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to make use of one of our Rules of Procedure and make a personal statement relating to several comments by colleagues from other groups about my speech addressed to the President of the Commission.
I do not wish to go back over the debate here; I think it has become clear that there are both agreements and divergences.
Not even the Commission President's closing words can obscure the fact that there is a particular political message associated with his insistence on the Lisbon Strategy and the unaltered guidelines of the Lisbon Strategy.
His message is that these guidelines do not need altering in any way.
Our message is that they must be altered so as to improve social inclusion in Europe.
That is the difference!
(Applause)
However, Mr President, two things are unacceptable and I wish to make this perfectly plain.
If Mr Watson and, in particular, Mr Karas are trying to create the impression in this House that the slightest critical remark addressed to the Commission is sacrilegious because it creates a split between the European institutions, we cannot go along with that.
It is the European Parliament's duty to tell the Commission in what direction to go.
(Applause)
Furthermore, it is my duty as Chairman of this Group to point out that we perceive a social imbalance in Europe.
If you believe otherwise, that is your affair.
It is not, however, a criticism of the Commission to say that we would like it to alter its guidelines.
To turn this criticism into a disagreement between the institutions serves only one purpose, a political and ideological purpose.
I caution you: if you want to force the Commission into the Liberal and PPE-DE corner, if you create an impression that it is a Liberal/PPE-DE Commission, then you are making a mistake because you are portraying this Commission in ideological terms.
We do not want that; we stand by our policy of cooperation with the Commission.
You, not we, are pushing Mr Barroso into the right corner!
(Uproar and applause)
We want a policy of social justice, however.
That is what we are advocating here, and we will not be drawn into an institutional debate when we are conducting a political debate!
(Applause)
