on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, Galileo could also be subtitled 'The Neverending Story'.
I hope this subtitle will no longer be an issue after today's discussion and tomorrow's vote.
The neverending story is now becoming reality.
I should like to thank Mrs Barsi-Pataky specifically for her helpful cooperation, not only in the trialogue negotiations, but also in recent years.
She has always been a fair partner and we have found reasonable and sound compromises.
Thank you also, of course, to the Presidency and specifically to the representative of the Presidency, who has been conducting the five trialogue negotiations with us.
A highly competent, committed woman who, it is safe to say, had quite simply - I suspect - not found this compromise in the Council.
My group, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, has always backed the Galileo Project and we are now also backing the result that has been established.
I can assure you that there will be no dissenting votes tomorrow from our group and we shall all be voting in favour of it.
We must also register the fact - and I would ask you to register this just once more, and it must not appear in the Minutes - that some of the German representatives had to lead the battle with their own government in order to get this going.
Mrs Niebler is smiling because she knows what I am talking about.
We have managed with this regulation to define clear structures, to find clear responsibility between the Commission, the Supervisory Authority and the ESA.
We have the Interinstitutional Panel, on which the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission have witnessed the progress of this project.
We shall be meeting four times a year until 2013 and we all assume that 2013 is a date that we shall likewise be keeping to, and that we shall also be keeping to the budget of 3.4 billion, otherwise it will become difficult to argue.
Galileo is - as my fellow Member Mrs Niebler has just stated - not only a satellite navigation system, which enables some citizens perhaps to arrive more quickly at their destination.
Galileo is an important technological development for us in Europe and we must maintain our know-how in astronautics, in navigation technology and in electronics.
It is therefore important for us to carry out this project here.
It is now particularly important that the Commission finalises the call for tenders before the summer.
This will be a very difficult task.
There will be a decisive settlement.
We must give the industry a second chance and the industry must grasp this second chance.
I hope that the industry representatives know what is in store for them.
We cannot afford a second failure as a result of industry difficulties.
I am very anxious about the proposal, the Commission's action plan and above all about the financial perspective from 2014.
Let us in conclusion together assert once again: the PPP is therefore not ultimately washed up.
As from 2013/2014 we shall be able to apply the PPP again when using the model.
I would not now want to write the PPP off entirely.
