rapporteur. - Mr President, the first thing I wish to do - and this may come as a surprise in the light of her intervention - is to express my thanks to Mrs Fraga Estévez, for we personally cooperated very constructively on the report and resolved numerous problems too.
We should keep that separate from the institutional conflict which exists between the Committee on Fisheries and the Committee on Development regarding the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure.
The latter has something to do with the fact that, as a result of the ICEI study, we have been allocated the new task of performing coherence checks.
The Council decided that measures in 12 policy areas were to be checked for consistency with development policy.
These policy areas are always part of the remit of other committees.
This naturally keeps causing institutional conflicts.
It is a problem, but I would nevertheless like to thank you for our good personal cooperation on the substance of the report.
Commissioner, I believe that the Commission has been on the right lines with the FLEGT process and with the new Fisheries Partnership Agreement since 2002.
That is a sound basis for further progress, and I would like to encourage you to proceed resolutely along that path towards the promotion of sustainable development.
There is still a lot to be done here.
This sound approach must be further developed.
In so doing, you can surely rely on the support of this Parliament.
Let me say one final word on the link between migration and overfishing.
I need hardly say that it is not the sole cause of migration, for which there are many reasons.
There are, however, clear indications that overfishing does play a part.
And the European Union, among others, is involved in that overfishing.
The International Organization for Migration has just provided very tangible evidence of this link in relation to Senegal.
To that extent the President of Senegal would be very ill-advised to close his eyes to the reality within his country and off its shores.
We should examine these matters more critically and address and resolve these problems together.
