on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, Kosovo's independence has been declared; Kosovo is a state.
Anyone who experienced the situation in Kosovo between 1989 and 1999 must have known that this independence was inevitable.
The long-time pacifist president and winner of our Sakharov Prize, the late Ibrahim Rugova, would be very pleased to hear of it.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to negotiate a solution.
I am sure that every one of us would have dearly loved to be part of one.
The current solution brings to mind a modified version of Churchill's aphorism: this is the worst option, except for all the others.
On Sunday I watched - half joyful, half tearful - as events unfolded in Priština.
Half joyful because I believe this was the only way out of the stalemate; half tearful because I am certain that we have created problems for ourselves that will not be easy to solve.
Nevertheless, the EU has been firm, even though the press has frequently painted a picture of disunity.
The EULEX mission was launched unanimously.
It is not an attack on Serbia; rather, it is necessary, including for the Serbs in Kosovo, because it will keep a close eye on implementation of the Ahtisaari Plan, which this Parliament passed by a two-thirds majority in spring 2007.
This plan guarantees extremely generous minority rights for the Serbs, respect for the borders and the rule of law, and therefore also the protection of other minorities.
Politicians in Kosovo must now create their state with sound judgment and determination.
The battle against unemployment can be won only by a functioning constitutional state.
Radical measures to deal with crime are an equally high priority.
The EU mission will support them in this, where possible.
Kosovo has a large number of well-educated young people who will be delighted to help establish the new state.
Kosovo is not a test case.
It is unique.
Its development into a state is the final stage in the downfall of Yugoslavia, initiated by Milošević in Kosovo in 1989.
I therefore regret the fact that Milošević did not live to see it, but his democratic successors must take on this onerous inheritance.
We wish the Serbian politicians composure, and hope that they will now devote all their energy to taking Serbia along the path to EU membership.
(Applause from the right)
