Madam President, I am surprised, pleased and concerned all at the same time.
My surprise is at the speed at which Parliament's rapporteur, in a back-room meeting with the Council Presidency, managed to sweep practically everything from the table that Parliament has considered to be of importance to this dossier over the last two years.
This should not be the benchmark for our debate of the energy package that is before us, for that is back-room politics not transparent democracy.
However, I am pleased that we have kept our feet on the ground.
In our inclusion of the airlines it is especially important to keep the cost of the system down, for any airline today that does not operate an efficient fuel management regime pays for it with their own demise.
Finally, I am concerned at the wishful thinking that seems to be affecting many of us as regards the international situation.
Mr Liese, emissions trading in the US was not rejected by the President but was defeated in the Senate, in which the party that holds the majority could well be providing the President the next time round.
We really need to be realistic in our assessment of the situation, for even if we succeed in convincing the Americans to join in the emissions trading system we shall still be faced with a list of other countries around the world and I personally am not sure how we are ever going to start talking to them.
I am thinking for example of the Emir of Dubai.
In commercial terms this region is for us a much greater challenge and the competition from that particular source is much more significant than that which comes from a couple of - if you will forgive the word - bankrupt US airlines.
This is something that we have completely ignored.
It is very important to keep a sense of proportion, a sense of perspective when debating that we should certainly move ahead but not make so much progress that the others can no longer keep up with us.
We are provoking a trade war here.
This is something, Mr Liese, that you must have been made aware of one-to-one during your hearings in the US Congress, though funnily enough you will never say that openly here.
For this reason we now have a compromise that is fairly realistic but, it is to be hoped, in terms of procedure is not ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
