- Mr President, I would like to congratulate the Slovenian Presidency of the Council on its comprehensive programme, the final phase of the programme of the three Council Presidencies, and also on the successful development of your own country.
You are part of Schengen, you are part of the euro area, and it really is a historic Council Presidency, of which I make the request that you do not do as all the others before you have done and present a programme that even a large country would not be able to accomplish in six months.
As a smaller country, you have the solidarity of the larger countries as well as of the European Parliament.
My request, however, is that you do not overdo things.
UN reform will certainly not be possible within six months under a Slovenian Presidency of the Council.
There are some very pressing problems pending, a few of which you have listed.
The most difficult will be the Kosovo issue.
Here, too, you are in a particularly difficult situation.
Another is the continuing development of the internal energy market, the agreement with Russia - these are the priorities you will in reality be able to address.
And if you succeed in moving ratification of the Lisbon Treaty forward, then you will be able to say at the end of this six-month Presidency: yes, as the first country from the former communist block, we have managed to shape this Council Presidency as a positive role model for prosperity, freedom and peace.
Finally, a minor observation for our colleague, Mr Schulz, who is no longer here.
He talked about the Socialist Group here - in Germany he keeps quiet about this - but we do know he has done so.
At the end he warned against right-wing radicalism, as though communism might have been a right-wing extremist system!
If I quote him correctly, he has also assigned you the task of bringing Turkey's membership forward.
The Commission has already confirmed that it is dealing with Croatia and Turkey even-handedly.
Do not get involved!
Leave this to the larger states, which have not been able to resolve it to date.
If you concentrate on the Western Balkans, you'll be doing Europe a great deal of good and you will potentially have a lot more success in this than in trying to resolve Turkey's problems!
