Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, space policy will play a very important role over the next six months, as it is one of the French Presidency's priorities.
The Commission finds that most welcome.
All of us here know, of course, that space is a fascinating topic.
We see it today as we follow the scientific adventures of the Phoenix Mars probe, as we did a few months ago with the successful installation of the European Columbus Laboratory module in the International Space Station.
I must add that over and above its major achievements, space technology is offering a growing number of instruments we need in order to achieve our policy aims.
That applies to environmental policy, transport policy, agricultural policy, but also to major external policy areas such as development policy, humanitarian aid and international aid for disasters and, of course - and this brings me to the subject Mr von Wogau has successfully kept on the agenda for many years, for which the Commission is most grateful to him - space policy and European security.
The Commission described the importance of space applications for the European Security and Defence Policy in its communication on European space policy last year.
I agree with the rapporteur that the two are closely linked.
The Commission therefore welcomes this report on space and security with its proposals and details about specific initiatives and measures.
I would like to discuss a few points in more detail.
The report stresses that the European Union is allocating more than EUR 5 billion to financing space projects under the current financial perspective.
The lion's share of that goes to applications of the GMES system - Global Monitoring for Environment and Security - which will soon be given its own and, in my view, very attractive brand name, like Galileo.
That will happen in September.
The potential applications of GMES are also most important to the European Security and Defence Policy.
I want to leave no room for doubt here, so that we do not repeat the mistakes of the past: GMES has a multi-use potential, we do not deny that, and this multi-use potential should and must also be used sensibly, to avoid duplication and unnecessary costs.
That is the only way we can ensure that our space industry is competitive and that we develop its technology.
My next point is most important to the Commission, in the context also of our experiences with Galileo.
If we want to make GMES services available for the long term, we need a permanent operational financial basis.
We do not have that at present.
We are still at the development stage and are funding GMES from research and development resources.
We will be entering the operational stage very soon, however, and then we will have to be prepared to draw the necessary conclusions from what we have jointly decided so far, not just specifically in relation to space policy but also on the basis of the European budget.
It would make little sense to spend billions on developing a technology and then not want to finance it once we are in a position to apply it.
If we want a long-term, operational financing basis - and I am speaking without any reservations here - then we must incorporate space projects that are relevant to security and defence.
That brings me to a second point.
We agree that there is a close link between space and security and defence policy.
We should, therefore, make optimum use of the synergies between space and civilian and military security, both in the field of technology and in the operational field.
I am, therefore, very glad that the report encourages strong inter-pillar cooperation, i.e. between the Commission, the Council, the European Defence Agency and the European Union Satellite Centre.
I would also stress that we must look at the whole spectrum of the question of space and its links to European security and defence policy, while respecting the provisions of the Treaties - the Commission would never touch them and has said quite clearly that we cannot finance any European defence measures or measures of a military nature out of the EU budget.
The Commission very much welcomes the fact that the report also addresses aspects of foreign and security policy in the stricter sense of the term, such as the development of a code of conduct for space activities or the potential of satellites to monitor international arms control agreements.
A central concern of our policy is the use of space for purely peaceful purposes.
The European Union - and here I can refer to various European Parliament resolutions - supports every initiative to prevent the weaponisation of space.
That is also why the Commission welcomes the European Space Agency's intention to develop an instrument to that end, called space situational awareness, that can not only verify the observance of the relevant agreements but also monitor the security of our satellites.
We will be discussing how to coordinate that with the Community's activities in a few days' time at a meeting between the ministers responsible for space affairs, the French Presidency and the Commission to be held in Kourou, our European spaceport in French Guiana.
The report on space and security clarifies the security challenges that will face Europe in the coming years.
We should see this as an opportunity to make Europe more capable of action and more competitive.
An innovative European space policy and a common European security and defence policy can bring us some way towards achieving that.
