on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, may I express my thanks to Mr Lehtinen for the really good draft report he has given us, which provides us with a very sound basis for our discussions.
I should like to highlight three very important points from this report.
The first is the need to ensure that a leading role is played by instruments which we already possess in the European Union for the promotion of safety and prevention.
This is why it is very important that the RAPEX system should be further improved so that it can serve the interests of consumers even more effectively.
The second very important point is that Solvit, which is such a key instrument, should be nurtured and improved.
There is still a very considerable information gap among consumers, too many of whom have never heard of Solvit and do not know that it could resolve a good few problems for them.
That is also very important.
I am also very gratified that the European Commission is to examine the EE symbol again.
Many people believe that the EE symbol is a safety mark, but unfortunately it is not.
We should ensure, together with you and Commissioner Verheugen, that the rules governing this symbol are formulated so as to enable us to assure the public in future that they can rely on the safety of products bearing the EE mark.
That is a very important aim.
The last and most important point, however, in the view of my group is the system of collective redress that we in the Socialist Group are advocating.
The entire statute book serves no purpose if consumers cannot assert their enshrined rights, be it because there is a cross-border dimension which makes the law very difficult to enforce or because there are many small claims for minor losses, although these can certainly suck people dry over time.
It is absolutely essential that we not only encourage the European Commission to examine and develop such a system but actually urge it to do so and to present us with an appropriate piece of draft legislation as soon as possible so that we can really give consumers due security and protection.
I very much regret that the PPE-DE Group has not seen fit to advocate this system with the vigour and commitment that are needed to give consumers and the public at large real confidence in the European Union and the internal market, for such confidence comes from knowing that they are properly protected when they go shopping in Europe.
