rapporteur. - You cut me off, Mr President, when I called you a despot.
I would like to justify why I do that.
I have been waiting for this answer since March 2007, in relation to a very, very important matter regarding an error by this Parliament which is serious for me personally and for my political work - when I was assigned to a group against which I have always fought, because I hold them to be Nazis in disguise - and I made a lengthy personal submission to you.
In the meantime, I have lodged a complaint with the Ombudsman.
When it comes to one-minute speeches, Mr President, you have all your constructions off pat, and when it is supposed to be my turn, you do not allow me to take my turn, so I call you a despot.
I also call you a despotic President because you arbitrarily singled out certain Members in the so-called incidents on 12 December, not those who were members of the party you still belonged to at the time, but apparently those who caught your eye.
I also call you a despot because you keep on cutting me off while I am speaking and say 'no, you will not give me that answer'.
It is surprising that you are letting me finish speaking now.
Furthermore, I call you a despotic president because, on the basis of this additional enabling interpretation, and I am not the only one who believes this is untenable, procedures can in fact take place here that truly have no place in a proper Parliament, at least not the way I learned about it in school.
However, for me, that is a very long time ago - if you read my curriculum vitae - to make me choose such an expression.
A great deal must have taken place for that to happen.
I am, however, convinced that you allow this despotic approach precisely because in fact it was not a matter of seeking clarification on the question of the secretarial assistance allowance.
You allowed me to be put in the pillory due to ludicrous errors of form that could happen to anybody - yes anybody, and I am sure they happen to every Member of this House.
However, they obscure the fact that, according to internal investigations, at least EUR 80 million would have to be claimed back from Members of Parliament if there were equal treatment and proportionality of funds.
These do not exist and therefore I maintain that indeed, in my opinion, you - as the political representative of 14% of Austrian voters - are, unfortunately, a despotic president who is inflicting unnecessary damage on this Parliament and the important underlying idea of Europe.
I long to see a true, fair, democratic Parliament, where it would be neither necessary nor desirable to use such an expression.
