Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will keep to the report on the discharge for the other institutions and thank the rapporteur, Mr Lundgren, for his cooperation.
As far as the institutions are concerned, I would like to point out first and foremost that we must at last find the legal basis for their discharge in the Financial Regulation - and this applies particularly to the Council.
The current practice, that Parliament undertakes discharge of the Secretary-General of the Council and the other institutions, is not enshrined in the Financial Regulation, nor is it consistent with Article 274 of the Treaty.
Particularly in sensitive areas such as budgetary control, reference to a 'gentlemen's agreement' dating back to the 1970s is no longer appropriate and contradicts the principles of legal clarity and legal truth.
We therefore call upon the Commission to submit a suitable proposal by September 2008, so as to rectify this shortcoming.
That is why I am asking that all Members back our amendment No 1 on discharge of the Council.
that these costs will be lost sight of? that administrative costs will predominate over these costs?
Now I will address the costs for common external and security policy again.
It is imperative, for the greatest possible transparency, that the Council resists the temptation to prioritise administrative costs at the expense of these costs in future.
hit the jackpot?
This year, as every year, building policies of the institutions is an area in which budgetary control has proved worthwhile.
Take the Court of Auditors, for example, which did not even bother to put its own extension building out to tender or negotiate contracts for it, even though it is responsible for financing.
am a bit worried that this may be meant to be 'procurement' except I would expect to see Beschaffung, so have stuck with award/vergabe
I would also like to bring up again the regulations on awarding of contracts.
It is unthinkable to convey to our citizens that every small municipality, when it has a contract of more than 200 000 euros to award, must call for tenders throughout all of Europe, when the institutions themselves do not observe the regulations on awarding of contracts.
Allow me a last word on the Court of Auditors.
I greatly regret that, according to our report, the Court of Auditors should be organised according to the European Central Bank model.
I fear renationalisation of this institution, which ought to be kept free of all political influence from Member States.
