Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the newly revised Lisbon Strategy has basically been successful since 2005.
This is readily apparent from one fact: when one spoke in public about Lisbon in 2005, everyone knew that it was the Portuguese capital but no one associated it with a process at that time.
Kyoto was already a process then, in respect of climate protection.
It is now 2008, and thank goodness the world has changed.
Now, when Lisbon is referred to in public speeches, it is of course still the Portuguese capital but it is increasingly associated with a political process, and I think this demonstrates a reasonable degree of success.
I also believe that it was right to set new priorities aimed at boosting growth and employment, because that is one precondition for being able to proceed sensibly with sound environmental and social policies as the second and third pillars of the Lisbon Strategy.
I furthermore believe that it was right to leave the guidelines unchanged, because they have on the whole been successful.
I nevertheless wish to mention a few shortcomings.
For example, I still see major shortcomings in the ongoing development of the internal market, which has supposedly been with us since the early 1990s but simply does not exist in many areas.
We have no internal market in the insurance sector, and in company law, for instance, enterprises are unable to take full advantage of their right of establishment within the European Union.
We still lack intellectual property rights and Europe has no rules on patents.
There are no common rules on alternative financial instruments and we are still awaiting the internal market in healthcare.
On the other hand, there has been a whole series of legislative proposals in other areas, above all geared to progress in the fields of social affairs, the environment and consumer rights.
That is well and good, but a balance must be struck.
I would therefore call on the Commission and the Council to pay particular attention to closing the loopholes in the internal market legislation.
