Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur.
It is not an easy task, coming in new to such a comprehensive dossier, and I think we can be proud that Mr Musotto has done such a magnificent job.
I think we can say this with confidence today, given that there are no amendments to this report for tomorrow.
That, too, is a tribute to the rapporteur.
Secondly, it is apparently of no interest whatsoever to one of the budgetary authorities to find out what is happening to the taxpayers' money.
Once again, the Council is shirking its responsibility.
Whenever we talk about how European taxpayers' money is being spent and try to seek solutions to difficult issues, the Council simply absents itself.
However, we have seen - and this brings me to the issue of what will happen with the discharges in our committee - that for years in the field of agricultural policy, where we have been resolute in our action and developed systems to control direct payments, irregularities have decreased.
In structural policy, on the other hand, where nothing has been done and where we have sat back and watched events unfold for years, the figures have gone up and up.
This has been apparent for years, and has repeatedly featured in the fraud reports for years.
Commissioner Kallas will see in the 2006 discharge that this is a problem and we will expect him to take action and not just sit back and watch.
That is why I would like you, Commissioner, to say this to those Member States which behave as if the rules that we have all devised do not apply to them, and this is also what the rapporteur says, with the full support of all the previous speakers: we want you to say, 'okay, we will put 10% of your funding on ice.
It will form a reserve, and you can have the money once you have taken appropriate action'.
That is a very practical demand from Parliament.
It is not a plan of action; it is practical action.
This is what we expect from the Commission, and then we will be very satisfied.
Once again, congratulations to the rapporteur.
