author. - Mr President, once again, it is necessary for us to talk about human rights violations in Iran, and it is no time at all since we last spoke about it.
Just three months ago, we drafted a resolution in this House on the executions in Iran.
Unfortunately, there has been no change for the better since then.
On the contrary: in the shadow of the nuclear crisis, the murdering by the Mullah regime continues unabated.
Only a week ago, an 18-year-old man, Behnam Saree, was executed in public.
The week before, a 20-year-old man was hanged for a crime he had committed at the age of 15.
The procedure is always the same: the young man has to climb onto a stool, the noose is placed around his neck, and when the executioner kicks away the stool, the noose pulls tight.
There is no mercy in this method.
Faced with this type of barbaric act, even greater barbarism is hard to imagine.
I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, could it get any worse?
Yet I have to say to you: yes, it can!
What is even worse is the execution of minors.
The death sentences imposed and carried out on young people who have not yet attained their majority is a severe breach of the Islamic Republic's international obligations and commitments.
Iran is party to a number of international conventions which commit it to refrain from executing under-age offenders.
It is macabre - indeed, it is verging on the tasteless - when Iranian Government representatives respond to criticism of this practice by claiming that the execution is suspended until the person has attained their majority.
Iran is the country which carries out the most executions of minors and thus occupies a deeply shameful position at the top of the league.
Since 1990, according to Amnesty International, no other country anywhere in the world has executed so many minors.
In 2007 and 2008 alone, 15 young people were executed, and the situation of under-age offenders who face execution has reached an unacceptable, indeed a critical level in Iran.
At least 132 under-age offenders are currently being held in death cells, and the real figure may well be much higher.
The situation in Iran's prisons is critical as well: since 25 August, several hundred Kurdish political prisoners have been on hunger strike in Iranian prisons.
They are protesting against the inhumane conditions, against torture and abuse, and against the death penalty.
The international community must take urgent action here.
We must continue to campaign tirelessly and insist on Iran's obligation to respect human rights.
The situation is far too precarious to brook any delay in tackling this issue.
