Mr President, I welcome market-based instruments as a means of implementing policies, including environmental policy.
I would, however, make the point that no policy instrument is effective simply because it carries the label 'market-based'.
All the instruments that we use to achieve policy objectives must meet certain criteria.
For example, is the instrument appropriate to the given objective?
If we confuse different objectives we will not achieve any of them properly.
If part of the thinking behind an environmental measure is that it should be a means of making money, we are already on uncertain ground because the measure is liable to be distorted for a variety of reasons.
Does a given instrument actually help to achieve an objective?
That question needs to be closely - and regularly - examined.
Is a given instrument compatible with others that already exist?
What about efficiency - the relationship between cost and benefit?
Reading this report, I am doubtful in some cases whether the criteria I refer to have been met.
Emissions trading systems work very well in theory but the reality is somewhat different.
The EU Emissions Trading Scheme is in a state of chaos.
Fortunes have been wiped out and the actual aim of the scheme has not been achieved.
Fair enough, you may say, this is the experimental phase and we have not yet got it right; but we certainly cannot afford much more of this expensive experimentation.
The policy on taxation of energy use also illustrates my point.
Taxation really has no place in an EU Green Paper about market-based instruments.
The mere fact that an instrument influences sections of the market does not make it market-based.
I have no objection in principle to tax measures being used to achieve environmental objectives but I will support their introduction only if they meet the criteria I have mentioned.
My case is that we should set out the objectives to be achieved; the choice of means to achieve them should then be left to those involved in the market.
