Mr President, I should like to start by thanking Mrs Berès for the speed with which she produced a draft report.
As you know, the procedure comprises two stages.
The first is the consultation; the opinion on the Council regulation.
This is not a codecision procedure.
At this stage, we in the committee were unanimous in our view that the increase from EUR 12 to 25 to 50 billion was the right step to take.
Three Member States have already availed themselves of funds: Hungary - whose situation Mr Becsey has just discussed along with its domestic responsibility - Latvia and Romania.
These European funds enable us to provide effective assistance and thus to actively support countries that have run into payment difficulties.
Yet we should not forget that, at the same time, the international institutions have decided to increase funding from the international financial institutions - the International Monetary Fund (IMF), the World Bank and development banks - by USD 1 100 billion.
This means we have a dual instrument.
Europe has contributed to increasing this funding whilst also assuming its own responsibility.
Against this background, the draft resolution on which we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs voted yesterday evening on the basis of compromise proposals is also suited to the adoption of Parliament's requests, requirements and demands of the Commission and of the competent Council in this regard for future legislation.
In this connection, there is a legal issue with regard to the Eurobonds and Article 100, which is binding on only the euro area.
If we consider that there is no legal basis for Eurobonds in the Treaties at present, we are on the right track.
On the other hand, however, the Commission must be given the task of examining the conditions required to make such measures possible in the first place.
I regard this as a responsible course of action.
Therefore, our group will be supporting the proposal as a whole - both the proposal for a regulation and the motion for a resolution.
We hope that this does not mean Europe embarking on some sort of additional financing responsibility that would shoot any budget to pieces.
Therefore, the limit of EUR 50 billion is completely justifiable at present.
If new challenges should present themselves, we shall not be able to close our eyes to them.
