on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank you, Mr President, for your hard work.
I should like to say on behalf of my Group that you have exercised your office with great dignity.
You have given Parliament dignity through the way in which you have led this House.
This is not the time to review your work.
The legacy of a President of the European Parliament is always subject to political scrutiny.
You can agree or disagree with one thing or another.
A review of the President's work must focus on what the President has done for the success of this House.
You have presented your conclusions.
There is nothing to add.
The question therefore remains: what has the President, as a human being, done for this House?
For me and my colleagues in the Socialist Group in the European Parliament it is clear that you have conferred dignity on this House, both inside and outside.
This House does not always conduct itself with dignity.
But that is true of all parliaments worldwide.
The dignity of a multinational joint parliamentary assembly of well over 700 Members from 27 countries, who belong to eight different parliamentary groups, who belong to different faiths, who have different skin colours, who come from different political traditions, who have experienced different historical development, must be safeguarded.
To unite them and to give them a sense of unity through their own representation is difficult.
That is exactly what you have done.
And for that you deserve our sincere thanks.
(Applause)
Mr President, you have tackled many activities in your two-and-a-half-year term of office.
To underpin what I have said about the way in which you have exercised your office, on behalf of our Group I should like to single out one point on which we fully shared your view and where you gave this House a voice that extended far beyond the bounds of political divisions, and hence gave a voice to disenfranchised people in a place that is assembled in exactly the way I have described.
You raised your voice against the scandal in Guantanamo at a time when it was not easy to do so.
That, Mr President, will remain an enduring milestone in your term of office.
You have shown that the requirement you placed on yourself to be a tolerant and cosmopolitan person on the one hand and to be committed to your fundamental Christian understanding on the other has been met.
But to place the entirety of human dignity, whether it comes from the tradition of enlightenment or, as in your case, from a religious orientation, at the core of your activity has earned you the distinction of being a good President of the European Union and that is how we will remember you.
Thank you very much.
(Loud applause)
