Mr President, I endorse the comments made by Mr Daul.
Mr Buzek, our group can also endorse many, if not all, of the points in the programme which you have presented.
This applies to the content of your presentation, to the procedural updates that you have proposed and to the revitalisation of the debate in this House.
The broad majority of the Members of this House will agree with the content of the speech that you have given.
I do not fully share Mr Daul's opinion that you have laid down your programme for the next five years.
Let us work on the basis of the next two-and-a-half years to start with, because that is a long time.
However, I believe, Mr Buzek, that you are taking over your office at a difficult time for the European Union.
You are also taking over your office at a difficult time for the European Parliament.
For the first time in a long time, the pro-European consensus is no longer undisputed in this House.
On the contrary, this House is, for the first time, a platform - this began in the last parliamentary term and has been reinforced by the most recent European elections - in which forces are at work and have gained attention and influence whose aim is exactly the opposite of what you have said in your speech.
The number of Members of this assembly who want to bring an end to European integration, the number of Members who want to reverse it and the number of Members who want renationalisation has risen dramatically.
In the previous parliamentary term, we experienced the process of attempting to have the Charter of Fundamental Rights signed by the three presidents of the institutions.
I would not have believed images and scenes of this kind to be possible in a multinational, democratic parliament, but we all bore witness to what happened.
The number of Members who hold opinions of this kind has increased.
This is why I would say that you are right.
The struggle to continue with and to deepen the integration process, the struggle for the Treaty of Lisbon, which is a fundamental requirement for the extension of the EU, and also the struggle to extend the EU on the basis of deeper integration, represent the right approach.
I am pleased that the President of this House - especially a President from a country which joined the EU in the most recent phase of enlargement, a President who, as Prime Minister of his country, began the accession negotiations - says as the central message of his period of office: we want more Europe.
We want an integrated Europe, we want a deeper Europe and we want an enlarged Europe as part of the deepening process, in order to achieve one thing, and this was the central sentence in your speech: the solidarity which has led to freedom.
This is the solidarity which we now need internally, so that this freedom can be achieved together with social justice.
For this reason, the socialists and social democrats fully agree with your speech, Mr Buzek.
It forms the ideological and spiritual foundation of a struggle which we must take part in during this parliamentary term.
When I was a newly elected Member, I had the privilege of hearing the speech made here by the French President François Mitterand in his role as President-in-Office of the Council.
I have never forgotten one sentence in that speech: 'In the end, nationalism always means war.'
This means that in the end, the opposite of nationalism, overcoming nationalism, the European ideal, means peace.
That is what we will be fighting to achieve together with you, Mr Buzek.
(Applause)
