Mr President, Commissioner Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, it is a clear goal of this directive to simplify the current legal provisions in the area of industrial emissions and to incorporate them into a single directive, thereby cutting bureaucracy.
However, as far as I can tell, there is little to be seen of this in the Commission's specific proposal.
For me, cutting bureaucracy does not mean the creation of new reporting obligations and complicated procedures but rather, above all, the avoidance of duplicated regulation and unnecessary burdens.
For agriculture, in particular, the Commission proposal will bring about a flood of new bureaucracy.
Expanding the applicability would mean that animal husbandry and breeding businesses that are, in no way, comparable to the industrial plants that this directive is actually aimed at will also be included.
What is more, the Commission proposes rules that are already contained in a nitrate directive or the water framework directive or the groundwater directive.
I ask for your support for our amendments in order to prevent such duplicated regulation.
The calculation of the upper limits for animal husbandry must also be reasonable and comprehensible in relation to poultry.
Please vote with me against the division into chickens for fattening, laying hens and turkeys for fattening.
In Germany, we call this kind of nitpicking 'counting peas'.
There must also be no attempt to use this directive to re-introduce the subject of soil protection by the back door.
Soil protection is important.
There must be efficient national laws to deal with it.
I would like to say to the rapporteur that I, personally, along with other members of my group, very much welcome the concept of a European safety network.
It represents a good compromise.
By setting emissions limits that the Member States must adhere to as an absolute upper limit when granting permits to large industrial plants, we will be putting a stop to the inflationary use of derogations that has thus far taken place in certain Member States.
In that way, we will be guaranteeing a uniform high level of safety.
Member States will then no longer be able to gain a competitive advantage at the expense of the environment.
