on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts and her initiative on this report.
Protecting children while they are using the Internet and combating child pornography are two of the most urgent issues which we have to deal with.
For me, it is very important to ensure that this Framework Decision on combating the sexual exploitation of children and child pornography offers a higher level of protection.
The abuse of children over the Internet can only be handled as a joint initiative at a European level, because the Internet is not subject to national boundaries.
There are three points in this report which I believe are in need of improvement.
Firstly, a balance must be maintained between children's security and data protection.
We must take into consideration not only children's personal data, but also the personal data of people and content which is relevant for the purpose of providing this protection for children.
As well as creating criminal offences for Internet users and suppliers of child pornography, we must first identify the people behind these dreadful activities and arrest them.
We can only combat this abuse successfully by attacking it at the roots.
We must also target those people who make these services, these appalling criminal activities, available to others and who profit from them.
As well as criminalising the offenders, as described in Mrs Angelilli's report, we must also raise awareness among people who look after children and explain the risks involved in Internet use.
We must focus on developing new technological methods and establishing the principle of privacy by design.
In addition, we must promote the exchange of information and experiences between the individual authorities in the Member States.
The data protection authorities in the Member States can act as important intermediaries in this respect.
Only an all-embracing approach will be successful.
However, I do not approve of making Internet service providers into an extension of the law enforcement agencies.
A much better solution is the implementation of agreements which allow Internet service providers to collaborate with the law enforcement agencies on a voluntary basis, as is already the case.
Child pornography in all its manifestations is no more and no less than a crime against humanity.
We must put every effort into combating it.
We must ensure that the Member States cooperate with us and that we in Parliament are all moving in the same direction.
On this basis, the members of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe will support Mrs Angelilli's report.
