Madam President, Commissioner Fischer Boel, ladies and gentlemen, for 22 years the programme of food distribution to the most deprived persons in the Community has contributed to the implementation of extremely important aims of the common agricultural policy.
This is about, on the one hand, stabilising the markets by reducing the intervention stocks, while on the other supporting the poorest levels of the population in the Community with food.
In 2006 alone, 13 million people from 15 Member States benefitted from aid measures within this programme - valuable help that should be retained.
Now, however, there are justified concerns about the Commission's proposal, which deviates from the old principles and does not want to use food from the intervention stocks alone for the programme, but also food bought on the free market.
Here, Commissioner, it is definitely a matter of social policy and not agricultural policy.
The argument that it is only with the additional purchase of food that the range of food offered will be able to provide a balanced diet, in my opinion, goes beyond the remit.
The rapporteur, Mr Siekierski, is now proposing the removal of co-financing.
However, this just emphasises once again the aspect of socio-political responsibility, which is why I would advocate co-financing.
The European Union must be clearly focussed on the well-being of the people.
There must be no hunger or want: that is something that all of the speakers this morning have once again clearly emphasised.
However, we must ensure a clear allocation of responsibilities.
It is not the case that agricultural policy wants to obstruct the aid and support for the poor.
However, with a fair and correct allocation of tasks and aid, the prospects for coordination and optimisation are also good.
European agricultural policy is currently facing, and will in future face, great challenges.
Changes to the content must always be seen in the overall context.
I would therefore ask the Commission and the Council for appropriate decisions and coordination in terms of social and agricultural policy.
