on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Prime Minister, President of the Commission, it is not easy to weigh up the progress that ought to have been made during the period of the Czech Presidency.
I have tried very hard to do this on behalf of my group, but what we would have liked to have seen - namely the Czech Presidency rising to the challenges - did not actually happen.
With regard to the financial crisis, when we reconvene here in September after the summer break we will have been talking about the required new regulation of the financial markets for a whole year, but we will have made virtually no progress in this regard.
A lot of statements have been made that are intended to reassure citizens, but not very much is actually being done.
As regards the economic crisis, the European recovery plan - I find it almost embarrassing that this is mentioned so often - is however merely a token programme to enable us to talk about European recovery planning, but it lacks any real substance.
It runs to a mere EUR 5 billion and then there is the petty dispute about how this EUR 5 billion should be used.
I do not think that this is something we ought to be proud of.
A programme that we have worked hard on, namely a consistent programme for energy efficiency in Europe, which would safeguard millions of jobs, has not been given any real consideration.
I now turn to the climate crisis and I hardly need to ask green politicians to evaluate the policy in this area.
Ivo de Boer, the United Nations' top climate change official, and Ban Ki-moon impressed upon us after the last conference in Bonn that all of countries of the world which have claimed that they would take a leading role in this global policy to combat the climate crisis have fallen far short of doing what would actually be needed.
If we take the European energy policy as a measure of what we as Europeans are actually willing to do, I do not believe that we can really regard the constantly competitive strategy that was so clearly employed in connection with the North Stream and Nabucco projects to be the starting point for a common future-oriented European energy policy.
Why is this?
What are the reasons for this?
I believe that the criticism for this should not really be directed at you, Mr Fischer.
The country which the chairman of my group, Mr Cohn-Bendit, visited carrying the European flag in his rucksack so that he could give it to the President was in reality weak.
And unfortunately, Mr Barroso, even though there is often talk about your strength, where was this strength during the times of weakness of this Council Presidency?
We did not see any evidence of it.
(Applause)
