Mr President, I should like to thank the Council and the Commission for their constructive cooperation with our Parliament's rapporteur.
As Commission Vice-President Tajani himself said, this is a very good example of how a good result can be achieved in a short space of time even on difficult dossiers.
However, I cannot hide the fact that we are not overly happy with the cabotage regime.
As the President-in-Office of the Council - and you, too, Vice-President - mentioned, it is intrinsically better, on environmental and economic grounds, to avoid unladen journeys in Europe.
Therefore, it would be better if the cabotage restriction could be lifted altogether sooner rather than later.
As an interim step, we are accepting three cabotage operations in seven days, but we are awaiting your report most eagerly, and hoping it will state that 2014 will mark the end of this restriction.
After all, it is a trifling area for the transport sector, but one that wastes money and has adverse effects on the environment.
Therefore, I hope that you will present a proper proposal in 2013, as a cabotage restriction is absurd in a European internal market of 27 countries.
I should also like to thank the Council and the Commission for supporting us in the end on the reintroduction of the 12-day rule for buses and coaches.
This is very important for the bus and coach industry, which, in many countries, consists of small and medium-sized enterprises, as the introduction of two drivers on such trips - which are mostly for senior citizens - has caused problems for SMEs.
We are pleased that this expires in six months' time.
It must be understood that there are many people, particularly older people, who do not like flying but would still like to travel as tourists in Europe and perhaps enjoy the sun in places such as Italy or Spain, hence the importance of our reintroducing the 12-day rule for buses and coaches and making it affordable and thus possible for senior citizens to travel.
This is a great success for us, for bus and coach companies and for passengers, and so I am much obliged to the Council and the Commission.
