on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I too wish to start by saying that the Czech Republic has had a very tough start to its Council Presidency and that, in connection with this new gas crisis, it could not have done any more in recent weeks to put right the lack of clarification in matters of European external energy policy that there has been in previous years.
We are all currently seeing a demonstration that the oft-cited phrase 'external energy policy' stands for a common strategy that does not exist in Europe.
Over and above this debate about Russian gas, Europeans collectively must answer the question as to what relationship they actually want to have with Russia in future.
Gas is just one issue, the trade in raw materials is just one issue, but we are talking about the fundamental relationship of the European Union with its largest neighbour on the east of our continent, and that does need to be clarified.
At the same time, it must be clarified how the European Union means to deal in future with the countries that are still wavering between Russia and the EU.
In my opinion, we could actually have foreseen what has now happened in Ukraine.
It is no surprise to anyone familiar with Ukraine that not only Gazprom and the Russian State but also Ukraine mix politics and economic interests.
The worst threat facing Ukraine at the moment is that the interests of certain political players could now result in the loss of the closer relations with, and reputation in, the European Union that the country has achieved.
The criticism that has been levelled at competent figures in Russia during this dispute goes at least equally for Naftogaz, RosUkrEnergo, those in charge and the Ukrainian Government.
This is much more than a trade dispute, and I think that the Czech Presidency has steered us through it well over these last few days.
I hope that the plans the Commissioner has presented will bear fruit.
I should like to congratulate the Commission on its clear position on the inappropriate attempt to re-connect the high-risk reactor Bohunice to the power network.
That would not be helpful, but rather would constitute a further infringement of Community law, this time from within the European Union.
