Mr President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we are now debating three reports.
The European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats have provided the rapporteur for two of these reports and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance for one of them.
I say this because it demonstrates clearly that the Socialist Group in the European Parliament does not have a monopoly on socio-political topics, but that these topics concern us all.
As vice-chairman of the PPE-DE Group, I would especially like to thank Mr Silva Peneda and Mrs Stauner for their work, because they are credible representatives of the European social and life model of the social market economy and are important champions within our group of a deepened social dialogue.
These reports should ensure that European Union policy can react effectively to the economic and social challenges.
They aim to give more people opportunities, to improve access to high-quality services and to show solidarity to those for whom the changes have negative consequences.
Everything we want from the Community must also appeal to a majority at home, because we do not have the authority to do everything that people expect of us.
Unfortunately, in social policy we cannot do everything yet.
However, the Treaty of Lisbon is a great step forwards.
Full employment will become a goal, the sustainable social market economy will become the European social and economic model and fundamental social rights will be enshrined in the treaty.
However, not only do we have too little authority, we have too little money.
Therefore, I urge the Commission to submit a proposal for a financial transaction tax by the end of the year and to put forward a concrete European initiative with two goals.
The first is to use the proceeds for the specific purpose of creating sustainable jobs, as anything which creates work, creates social stability and security.
The second is to put a clear European project on the table for the G20 Summit in the spring.
Now employees who have been made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis can also be supported and we have increased the cofinancing to 65%.
Although there is room for improvement, how would the future look without our European social model?
We must strengthen it - as Mr Silva Peneda urges - by strengthening fundamental labour legislation through the establishment of minimum standards in employment rights, by fighting discrimination, by strengthening social cohesion, by modernising social insurance systems, by fighting poverty, by promoting the transition to self-employment and by strengthening the Structural Funds.
We are taking a step forwards, but we still have a lot to do.
