Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for remaining here for this topic, which is actually a lot more important than it would seem from the number of Members present in the House.
It relates to the revision of transport policy in respect of the trans-European networks.
Firstly, allow me to extend my thanks to my colleagues who have contributed to this, in particular the Commission and the secretariat, which provided excellent support.
The trans-European networks have a long history.
For 15 years, projects were presented, lists discussed and decisions deferred.
This was and is a reason to look more closely at the whole story, to revise it and to see to what extent the goals have been or can be achieved.
The trans-European networks have not always been successful.
That - as so often in the European Union - is partly down to funding, and in particular to the lack of funding in Member States which still have the unfortunate habit of demanding a lot of support from the European Union.
However, when it comes to payments to the European Union budget, the sack is then firmly drawn shut and very little is given out.
Well, since nothing comes from nothing, many projects did not get off the ground, and we need to look at this more closely once again, particularly in light of the more recent challenges that we are facing with regard to European transport policy as a whole.
On the one hand, we are facing new challenges brought about by climate change, and we must respond to these challenges.
The question of sustainability with regard to transport and the question of damage to the climate caused by certain means of transport must be asked anew again and again and must also be reflected in the actions of the Member States and the European Union.
The second point that we, of course, need to deal with very decisively is the current financial crisis, which under certain circumstances will restrict still further the ability of some Member States to take action with regard to infrastructures and the associated investments that are needed.
However, enlargement has brought us completely new tasks to do in Europe that did not exist when decisions were taken on the list of trans-European networks.
Therefore, after long discussions in committee, the decision was taken in favour of an approach that is intended to address these issues in particular.
Firstly, the various modes of transport should be networked considerably better than they have been up to now.
This has been ignored in the past.
This affects ports and the hinterland in particular, which have been neglected in recent years and now form the main focus of this report.
However, this also requires the development of a core network and the network connections on which the whole system is based and with which the whole system is connected, allowing sound development in the transport sector and the continual improvement of its management.
We need not only a geographical network, but also a conceptual network between the modes of transport, better intermodal links and better technical work being carried out on the networks.
This relates to software rather than hardware.
This is the core of our report and I hope that we can agree on this resolution, which has broad support, and that we do not take a retrograde step, as currently indicated in an alternative resolution.
