Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we are talking today about external energy security policy, we are, of course, aware of one particular fundamental truth, which has already been mentioned by Mr Piebalgs, and that is that the crucial front line in terms of energy independence is within the European Union.
To put it more precisely, if we could introduce low energy standards or zero energy standards for our buildings then we would save more natural gas than Nabucco, South Stream and Nord Stream combined could import.
It is important that our resolution states that the cost-effective options of renewable energy, the energy efficiency strategy and energy saving in particular must be a central part of this policy.
If that is the case, then no additional nuclear power will be needed at all, in our opinion.
Secondly, an important message in this resolution is that we need a common external energy security policy for the EU, which is something that we do not have at the moment.
This policy should include the promotion of energy efficiency and renewable energy within the framework of a neighbourhood policy and a common position to be taken by the EU in negotiations with the transit countries.
The Commission should make sure that it has sufficient capacity for this, as called for by Parliament two years ago in its resolution on this issue.
In our view, Nabucco is a high priority project, because it would strengthen our independence in terms of energy, particularly with regard to Russia, although I agree with Mr Kasoulides when he said that there are still a lot of questions that need to be answered in this regard.
However, it is a pity that some Member States, through their promotion of the South Stream project, which is openly competing with Nabucco, have been undermining the policy of energy independence.
With regard to energy policy, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance also believe it is important not to forget human rights and to neglect the human rights dialogue when we discuss energy.
When we broaden our perspective to include Desertec or even the Arctic - as we do in our resolution - it is also important that we do this in a spirit of partnership rather than neo-colonialism.
