draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - Mr President, firstly I would like to give my support to the three-step approach to the mid-term review developed and presented by Mr Böge.
It gives the opportunity for a careful analysis of our political objectives, the necessary changes to the tools available to us and the question of funding.
Ceterum censeo: as a foreign affairs specialist, I would like to demand once again an end to the chronic under-funding of foreign affairs.
The Commission has agreed to present an evaluation of this area.
We want to see short-term solutions as part of the current financial framework and workable options for the next financial framework.
Among other things, appropriate funding must be provided for the European External Action Service.
We want a European Union which fulfils its obligations in the area of foreign relations and can react rapidly and appropriately to crises.
Our credibility and our ability to be an effective partner depend on this.
We welcome the further development of European Neighbourhood Policy to include the Eastern Partnership and the Union for the Mediterranean, which gives the partners two efficient and reliable frameworks.
However, we will have to find out whether the financial arrangements are workable against the background of our foreign policy challenges.
We are calling for new legal regulations and appropriate funding in the next financial framework for cooperation with third countries outside the context of public development aid.
I would like to express one more wish for the future above and beyond the Lisbon Treaty.
I think that all the funding for external activities should be included in the EU budget.
This relates both to the European Development Fund and the Athena mechanism.
Our governments should not be afraid of creating transparency in a specific area in order to make it clear how much we are already undertaking jointly in the European area in terms of foreign policy, including and in particular in military action.
