Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, I should like to thank the three rapporteurs, and wish to comment on just a few part aspects.
I should like to say in particular, however, that 60 years of NATO have meant 60 years of peace and freedom for my generation: this should be noted.
If we now succeed in strengthening EU foreign, security and defence policy at a time when multilateralism is increasing again - as the High Representative, Mr Solana, has just said - that is, if we manage to incorporate our vision of preventive measures and soft power into a common transatlantic strategy to a greater extent at this time of multilateralism, we shall have a good future ahead.
At the same time, France's return to military integration strengthens Europe's position.
The Munich Security Conference was telling: following explanations by Prime Minister Tusk, Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy - in the presence of Joe Biden, Vice-President of the United States - a European corps within NATO went practically unchallenged.
In my eyes, at least, it was a sensational discovery that there were no protests from the Americans.
In transatlantic relations, we can step up the development of common positions in the military field, too, so that these can then be portrayed credibly within the framework of NATO.
For this reason, we should use our vision of military capabilities with an emphasis on soft power and prevention to tackle a new agenda, one that had already existed, but which became clear in Munich, for President Obama's policies make it possible for us to enter a new era of disarmament negotiations.
We Europeans can play a role in this with START, with the NPT, which needs to be renegotiated, and particularly with the CFE Treaty, which is of particular importance in Europe as we also have certain problems with Russia.
If all of this is incorporated, including the missile shield, it will give us new - better - opportunities to conduct common transatlantic policy, with the United States as our ally and Russia as our strategic partner: a policy towards Europe's interest in peace.
We can take this opportunity only if we ourselves become stronger and more influential, and therefore this policy goes in the right direction.
