Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I have three points to make.
The first is that the car industry is a key industry for Europe and - this has already been said - when you include all the upstream and downstream businesses and the whole supply industry, 12 million jobs depend on it.
I just want to emphasise this one more time as Mr Chatzimarkakis is sitting there in front of me, having just said that the German Government's efforts were electioneering bluster.
I can only refute this definitively.
It is a mocking affront to the workers employed in this sector across numerous European countries who have to fear for their jobs day in and day out.
Secondly, rescuing Opel is in the common interests of Europe as a whole.
I think it is particularly important to stress this, irrespective of the debate today.
There are sites in the UK, Belgium, Poland, Spain, Germany and other European countries.
If Opel is rescued by the fact that there is an investor, namely Magna, that there are bridging loans, for which the German Government fought, it is not only in Germany's interests but those of Europe as a whole.
We must all take steps to retain jobs in our home countries.
I am pleased.
Where would we be today if we had not taken steps to bring about the trusteeship solution?
There would not be any need for further debate today in that case, as the debate would have been done and dusted in any case when General Motors drew GM Europe along with it into the mess surrounding its insolvency.
My third point is that there are strict rules for State aid.
I am confident that the Commission will examine this matter in a proper manner doing justice to the interests involved.
The crucial question will be whether Opel Europe can be profitable again in the medium term.
I am confident that the solution that has now been produced and on which Magna, too, is working, and which involves many other European States, can be implemented.
I ask the Commission to also provide the relevant authorisation and I would like to conclude by re-stating that, in this case, we have achieved something positive for the car industry in Europe as a whole!
