Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the basic substance of what was said by the previous speakers from the Council and Commission.
I too am of the opinion that we should continue the One China policy to achieve the cohesion of China as a unified state, and that we do not want to jeopardise any of this.
Of course, we do not permit violence - be it violence by demonstrators under particular circumstances or violence by the state against demonstrators, as was actually the case.
I wanted to mention this first.
However, we also need to understand that, in China, the violence of the central government which, in this multi-ethnic state with many cultural differences, does not show a sufficient degree of understanding, will always be a recurring problem.
This is why greater cultural autonomy, greater opportunities for mobility and opportunities relating to the preservation of identity and language are all prerequisites for all the citizens of a multi-ethnic state to be able to live together under one roof.
China's history has consisted of a series of break-aways and reunifications with massive campaigns of violence.
This can be seen again and again throughout China's history.
China needs to realise that this cannot go on and that it needs to introduce this autonomy.
The Uighurs are a moderate Sunni minority.
They pose no direct terrorist threat.
There is therefore the same danger as we see in Tibet and that is that if China does not enter into agreements with the moderates, there are always young radicals who cannot and do not want to wait any longer.
Therefore, delaying a solution with regard to identity delays a solution in the long term.
The Chinese Government is extremely ill advised to talk only of terrorists, to claim that these people want to destroy the unity of the state and to say that outside forces like Al-Qaeda and others are behind this.
I do not believe that this is a solution for this country and therefore we should make it clear that we do not accept such a policy.
All this should be understood under the premise that I mentioned at the beginning of my speech.
