Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say in advance that the German conservative (CDU/CSU) Members of Parliament will support you, Mr Barroso, in your bid for a second period of office.
However, we do have specific expectations of you and, of course, of the future Commission during this second period of office.
I want to make that quite clear.
Our demands are focused on the future but, of course, we have five years' experience behind us and therefore I would like to highlight briefly the changes we would like to see.
In our opinion, the last five years have brought high points and low points.
The low points included the lack of regulation of the financial markets, because the Commission lacked the courage to take the necessary measures against individual Member States which were blocking progress, the noticeable increase in the power of the Council, and the high-handedness of individual Commissioners who have disregarded the concept of subsidiarity.
We will lend our support to your programme and your guidelines, because we believe that they represent the right approach.
We want to ensure that some of the things that are important to us are achieved and I am sure that you will take that into account.
Firstly, the model of a social market economy must be the basis of our common policy in Europe, in other words, freedom and responsibility and not just the freedom which was to be found on the financial markets.
The competitiveness of Europe and job security in Europe have to be weighed up against protecting the environment and the climate.
I was rather surprised that you are potentially putting this overall approach at risk by appointing a separate climate commissioner.
We need an industrial base in Europe and the problems of the world, such as hunger, poverty and disease, can only be solved if Europe is a strong economic power with a base of this kind.
The citizens must lend their support to Europe.
Over-regulation is significantly reducing people's motivation and alienating them from the concept of Europe, which is why we want an independent assessment of the impact of legislation.
Fourthly and finally, we want a fundamentally new version of the interinstitutional agreements.
Under these conditions, the five-year period of office will be a positive one.
