Madam President, firstly, I would like to congratulate my colleague, Claudio Fava, on this report and on the fact that agreement was reached in the trialogue meeting.
Of course, it is always possible to ask for more and to achieve more.
However, the fact that it has at last been recognised within the European Union that illegal immigrants who are caught must also be granted rights and must be protected against exploitation represents an important step forward.
Of course, this must form part of an overall policy on migration and immigration.
No one disputes this.
However, there is one thing that I do not understand.
While the Greens - Jean Lambert is no longer here - or those on the left from the so-called communist side, such as Giusto Catania, maintain that this does not work, that it has once again come to nothing, that nothing can help, I would like to say that it does not help to promise the people living in these difficult situations a four-course meal and then to fail to give them their daily bread.
This is cowardly and unhelpful.
I have to ask myself what the Greens really want if they always vote against measures which would improve people's situations.
We have already seen this in the case of many reports and actions.
In addition, there is nothing to prevent national states from establishing proper controls, imposing fines and making subsidies and national and EU funding unavailable to companies who employ illegal immigrants.
I would like to see the same tough approach which the Member States sometimes use in the case of illegal immigrants being applied to tax evaders and those who work on the black market.
Of course, we must speak to our colleagues in the national parliaments to encourage them to demand that illegal immigrants be granted the rights which have been decided on here.
There is, of course, one thing that we can be sure of.
If someone is employed illegally because he can no longer survive in his own country, he does not have the option of going to the police and saying that he is being exploited.
In the same way, a woman who has been raped cannot report the crime.
Both of these people know that if they do go to the authorities, they will be deported.
This is why we will be voting in favour of this report.
It represents the first step in the right direction.
