on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, 30 years ago during the autumn of 1979, this House adopted the first urgent resolution in relation to Afghanistan, the author of which was Otto von Habsburg, whom I worked with at that time.
It related to a warning of the impending Soviet invasion of Afghanistan, which then actually occurred a few months later.
Since that time, this country has had a terrible history of suffering, and we ought to ask ourselves the question: what is Afghanistan?
Firstly, it is in many respects a very ancient tribal society, which we cannot catapult into the 21st century in one fell swoop.
Secondly, it is a country that attaches a great deal of importance to its independence, which it protected against British and Russian imperialism with a huge amount of effort.
Thirdly, it is a country that suffered a lot during the 20th century and, as a result of a rather questionable intervention - this I say quite openly - by Western powers, is currently in a situation in which it has a president who many people there do not feel to be their own.
This is a very difficult mixed situation.
In order to ensure that there is no misunderstanding, Mr Cappato knows that I am not one of the so-called 'realist politicians', I am, as far as human rights are concerned, not open to compromise.
We must uncompromisingly oppose this law and the oppression of women.
However, we must proceed in such a way as to succeed and so as not to create the impression that this is a form of external control.
We must therefore find partners in this multi-ethnic society in Afghanistan and gradually build a modern society there.
This means that we must support a political concept for Afghanistan rather than a purely military solution, as has been the case thus far.
Therefore, the law needs to be revised.
On this, we are totally unwilling to compromise, as we are paying out a great deal for this country in which we have a military presence.
However, we must do this in a way that involves the Afghans and that respects their dignity, and as a top priority this of course includes - whether some people like it or not - the dignity of women.
