Mr President, I do not need to go over much of what the previous speaker has said.
It was clear to my group that we would support your candidacy, because we felt that it was high time that a major figure from the European Parliament, who also comes from one of the new Member States, took on the role of the head of this House.
In future, we would like to see the President of this House being elected on the basis of considerations such as your special skills and abilities, which have often been acknowledged.
We would also like to see the power of national delegations within the large groups perhaps being applied to a slightly lesser extent than the approach which figures like you adopt.
We have great expectations of you when it comes to overcoming the major breaches which remain between East and West and which I described some weeks ago.
Following the summer holidays and my observations of political developments, I would simply like to say that you are likely to have a very difficult task.
My impression is that the major global financial crisis and the subsequent economic crisis have not made the job of bringing East and West closer together within the EU any easier.
On the contrary, the challenges have become greater because the imbalances represent a major problem.
I would also like to take a slightly more critical approach and remind Parliament that today is the anniversary of the collapse of Lehman Brothers.
We are sending a large delegation to the G20 summit where the subject of how the financial crisis can be overcome will be discussed.
However, this Parliament has not managed to discuss any resolutions in this area and has not given our negotiators a uniform basis on which to work.
I believe that this is an expression of weakness rather than strength.
I suspect that what lies behind this is that we still cannot agree on the analysis of how we actually got into this mess.
I believe that this major crisis is not solely the responsibility of a few crazy bankers, but that in fact, it is due to the neo-liberal belief in the benefits of unregulated financial markets, which not only was and is prevalent in the US, but also remains widespread in Europe today.
In the policies of the European Union we are far from reaching a consensus on the evaluation of this analysis and, therefore, we are also unable to agree on the ways out of the crisis.
I also believe, Mr President, that everything which you said about the second major challenge facing us in the context of an international round of negotiations, that is, the challenge of the climate crisis, was correct.
I hope that we Europeans can take a stronger position in Copenhagen than is currently the case.
I have the impression that the Europeans are still a long way from playing an appropriate leading role in the area of climate policy.
There are many reasons for this, but one reason keeps coming to my mind.
We continue to put far too little trust in concepts such as the Green New Deal put forward by Ban Ki-moon or Achim Steiner on behalf of the UN.
We are also unable to agree that we should begin transforming our old industrial society, that we should think more than one day ahead and that climate-friendly technologies, efficiency technologies and many other measures represent the future, not only of Europe but also of the world.
I can only say, Mr President, that we face major challenges.
If you intend to put forward modern, sustainable ideas, our group will definitely be behind you.
It is regrettable that we will not see a real change in the staffing of the European Commission because it is becoming apparent that the main player behind yesterday's concepts, Mr Barroso, will continue to head the Commission during the next parliamentary term.
Mr President, we wish you luck!
On behalf of my group, I look forward to some exciting and, hopefully, productive debates.
(Applause)
