Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would very much like to thank Mrs Laperrouze and Mr Piebalgs for all the documents they have presented.
I do not agree with all of the details, but the proposals go in the right strategic direction: it is right and necessary to focus once again on the fact that security of supply is one of the central issues.
We have perhaps devoted too much of our attention to other energy policy issues over the last year, and I am grateful that security of supply has now returned more to centre stage.
Secondly, I am also grateful that the proposed position is so nuanced.
As has been said, one might not agree with every single point, but the report is generally correct, contrary to what Mr Turmes just suggested.
Mr Turmes, it is wrong to believe that there is a simple answer, a single answer to this enormous, complicated problem.
Politicians always try to give a quick, simple answer that satisfies everybody, but that is just not possible.
It is, unfortunately, damned hard, which is why the answer is so varied.
We cannot make people promises and act as if we have a solution and everything is magically going to be fine; quite apart from anything else, the people would one day be bitterly disappointed when they realised that it does not work that way.
This nuance means that there is not just a single energy source, but rather that we will continue for a long time to work with several sources.
It is immoral to just discard a source of energy: in my view, it is irresponsible to simply dismiss nuclear energy.
It is part of the solution: not the whole solution, of course, but it should be realised that it has a contribution to make.
I would also caution against staking too much on gas: we have just heard a great deal about the dependency that entails.
I also think that we need to realise that we cannot just carelessly give up on coal - an energy source that we have in our country and in many other places in Europe - and say 'coal produces CO2, so it is not an option'.
That would be irresponsible.
We also need a nuanced response to the issue of the various routes and paths.
As Mr Rübig just said, there is not one single answer for a pipeline: it would be a mistake to just opt for one; instead, we need to open up a variety of routes and options.
Nobody today can predict with certainty what will happen in 10, 20 or 30 years' time.
In that respect, the path we need to take is to say 'yes' to intelligent solutions.
By intelligent, I mean varied, and being open to new things and not standing still.
The answer is technology.
The answer is investing in research and being open to solutions that we currently cannot see at all, and not casually ruling out one option or another.
It is also agreeing to investment.
It would be a fatal mistake - and it is one made in some energy policy decisions - to give those who actually have to invest the money, namely companies, too little room for manoeuvre and too little support.
Does anybody really believe that we, the Member States, the State or the Community will be able to solve the problem of investment?
No, it is the private sector that will have to do that.
