on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, I actually wanted to speak about Mrs Klass's report, but will now take the opportunity to respond to the previous speaker.
You should read the agreement!
What you just said was, we have introduced the amendment so that endocrinal substances will not be on the market for a further four years.
Your amendment will bring about exactly the opposite situation.
Please look at it again.
Perhaps you could withdraw your amendment tomorrow, as it conflicts with what you have just said.
What the pesticide industry wants is that we do not set any criteria.
Everybody in the House must, of course, ask themselves whether they have prostrated themselves before the pesticide industry or whether they are creating added value for citizens, health and the environment.
This is the crux of the matter and nothing else.
Otherwise, we have taken all measures to support agriculture as always.
The Danish example, in particular, is very impressive: it has succeeded, within twenty years and without loss to agriculture, in halving the use of pesticides, doubling water quality and halving the quantities of pesticide residues.
And now to Mrs Klass, many thanks for your work!
However, as a group we would, of course, have liked to have clear objectives and clear timetables.
Nevertheless, we hope, of course, that this will be a spur for Member States to generate competition amongst themselves as to who is the most prepared amongst them to really take plant protection and sustainable management seriously.
And, of course, we would have liked more rights for the residents of areas adjacent to agriculture.
I also hope, in this connection, that the ground-breaking judicial ruling by the British High Court to clearly encourage and support citizens in their requests for information may perhaps also be used to provide similar access for more citizens in their Member States throughout Europe.
I also hope that we have made a little progress towards more transparency.
