rapporteur. - Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Ulmer, I have of course taken note of the concern you expressed about the possible mixing of Category 1 and 2 materials and we also consulted the industry regarding this problem at the end of the negotiations.
I think that one would already need to act extremely illegally in order to be able to mix in this material.
We will check whether a more stringent regulation is needed here.
What we wanted to achieve with this new regulation was to enable the by-products of slaughter to be used in many ways and in that regard I can also say to Mrs Doyle that your concern is unfounded.
Everything is the same as before.
By establishing the end point for slaughter by-products, we have also very clearly stipulated that they will then become subject to totally different provisions, in other words we have clearly indicated the transfer to the Waste Framework Directive.
I believe that we are on the right path here.
I would also like to mention that we naturally also want to address the issue of the rotten meat scandals with this new regulation.
We are not completely on the right path yet in this regard, but with the labelling and the guaranteed traceability, I believe that we are heading in the right direction.
Of course, we now need to see what sort of labelling the Commission will propose.
This will not be particularly easy, as we all know the problem of the blue Chappi dog food - no one wants that.
In this respect, we definitely need our researchers to choose an approach.
As regards the issue of organic fertilisers, which was also up for debate and has not yet been properly discussed, the Commission actually intended to provide for more thorough mixing-in of the material so that the animals did not even notice it.
However, that would result in a change to the quality of the fertiliser and I believe that we have formulated a good regulation in this regard and that our small-scale gardeners who like organic fertilisers so much can also be appropriately provided for.
By and large, then, this is a good regulation.
I am very happy with it and with the cooperation, and I hope that we will not have to amend it again too soon.
The cooperation with the Commission was very agreeable and for that I am very grateful.
