on behalf of the PSE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it seems as though the peace of Christmas is upon us - everything is passing off so peacefully.
Unfortunately, I have to add a sour note to the proceedings.
The Council, which is not represented here today, has taken months to revise and reconsider the proposals presented by the Commission and to come up with a solution in a situation where we have huge, rising unemployment.
It is therefore not the fault of Parliament.
In this case the people responsible for the budget were even ahead of us in the energy field.
That certainly did not make our life very easy.
Normally, they are the blockers.
But then we tried to find a solution, and the Commissioner was very helpful, but the Council was obdurate.
Our concern - and this really ought to be self-evident - is that all the budget appropriations that cannot be disbursed should be allocated to projects to create jobs, especially in projects aimed at energy security, energy efficiency and energy conservation.
This really ought to be self-evident.
Were we to ask the citizens of Europe whether they would be in favour of allocating money that is not spent to this particular area, the vast majority would say yes.
Only the Council has not yet acknowledged that this is actually what is needed.
In this context, all of us - including the members of the new Parliament - should insist that this is exactly what is implemented.
I do not know whether Mr Piebalgs will still be a Commissioner and will still be responsible for this area, but I hope that the Commission is also of the opinion that we must ensure that all budget appropriations that cannot be disbursed are transferred in other areas to employment-related projects concerned with energy efficiency and energy security.
Finally, I would like to thank both Commissioners for their cooperation both personally and on behalf of my Group.
Whether it was always a pleasure is another matter, but you were always prepared to engage in dialogue, and I hope you can say that of us too.
We are in the middle of an election campaign but things are a bit calmer for you now.
I do think, however, that you can live without us parliamentarians.
