on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, Mr Topolánek, I find it remarkable that you are here.
It does you honour in your difficult circumstances.
That you are here this morning shows that you are a fighter, but you have yet to understand the remit of the President-in-Office of the European Union.
If you come here to engage in Czech domestic policy, then you should not be surprised if we discuss Czech domestic policy.
In my opinion, however, you are here as the President-in-Office of the European Council, which is why I fail to understand your comment about obstruction by the social democrats.
(Applause)
In any case, you were toppled by two Civil Democratic Party votes and two Green votes.
So what about obstruction by your own people?
Yesterday we heard a speech by a leading European head of government who, as the host of the G20 summit next week, said the opposite of what you said here as President-in-Office of the Council.
What Gordon Brown said yesterday was the opposite of what you said here.
You said that the path that the US is taking is historically the wrong path.
That is what you said here a few moments ago.
You said that Geithner's way is the wrong way and leads to hell.
That is not the level at which the European Union can work with the US.
You are not representing the Council of the European Union, you are representing yourself.
That is the big mistake that you are making here.
(Applause)
Now I also understand why people told us at the beginning that it is hard to engage in dialogue with this man.
No, Mr President-in-Office, that is the way to take the European Union back up a blind alley.
The President of the Commission said something very important today.
He said that it would be a serious mistake to deny the social summit, the employment summit.
At a time when millions of people in Europe are worried about their jobs, at a time when bankrupt banks and insurance companies, including in the US, are being bailed out by public funds to the tune of billions or even trillions, which you describe as the path to hell, in a situation in which people know that ultimately they must pay out of their taxes, be they euros or crowns; in this sort of situation the European Council is saying to these people, we have no interest in your employment problems.
We have no time for that.
That is a fatal signal.
That is the wrong signal.
That is why I say, Mr President of the Commission, that your advice to the Council Presidency is not enough.
We do not want a troika; we want a discussion open to everyone.
He should re-convene the summit, so that the Heads of State and Government can assume their responsibility of discussing the employment situation in Europe at the beginning of May.
(Applause)
Mr Topolánek, I want to give you three recommendations from our point of view to take with you over the next few days: if you force the governments of the European Union to mobilise 1.5% of their gross domestic product in 2009 and 1% in 2010 as a package to address the short-term economic situation and so far four countries, if I have followed this correctly, meet these specifications, then that is not enough and it is your job as President-in-Office of the Council to ensure that the states honour their self-imposed commitments.
Secondly, please re-convene the social summit.
Show the European public that employment policy and initiatives to protect jobs are at the centre of government action.
Thirdly, please ensure in the Council that clarity finally reigns as to what is to happen on institutional issues after the elections.
I personally feel very sorry for you.
I know that you have advocated the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, but I also know that your own president is on your case and that everything is being done there to stop you getting it through the Senate.
We are here to help you.
Where we can, we are talking to your ODS senators, trying to get them to agree to the ratification process.
No problem, we are by your side and will do whatever we can.
There is still a very separate issue, however: you must ultimately tell us on what basis you wish to proceed.
On the basis of the Treaty of Nice, which is in force, or on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon, which is not in force?
To say, we will start with Nice and then we will add a bit of Lisbon, that is just not on.
That is why I also say, as far as we are concerned: consultation after the European elections, absolutely, but only once the European Parliament has been convened.
I am not prepared to be consulted after 7 June until this Parliament has been formally convened for its first sitting.
We must still be able to demand a minimum of institutional respect.
So these three points, Mr Topolánek, and then you will regain some prestige with us.
(Applause)
