Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is another subject on which the discussion very quickly reveals that strong emotions are involved, on the one hand, but also stark realities on the other.
I should like to express my particular thanks to the Chairman of our Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Parish, for this question.
It is an important one - not in order to convey emotions, but to ask the Commission the following quite specific questions.
What has happened?
How can these developments be verified?
Do you have any proof, and if so, what?
What figures do you have?
You mentioned a couple of figures, Commissioner, but I firmly believe that discrepancies exist between Member States that go way beyond the fact that some Member States have submitted reports and others have not.
What is the situation with regard to implementation?
How are the long journeys monitored?
How are they monitored in the individual Member States?
Another major problem area requiring urgent discussion is the problems that have arisen as a result of our defining agriculture as merely an economic field and equating things we should possibly be regarding as different.
For example, what additional professional training in transport matters should trained farmers be undergoing?
How should this be organised, and who would provide such training?
Where must farmers show this in order to obtain their qualifications?
To reiterate: farmers are trained to deal with animals, whereas hauliers employ drivers who have possibly never dealt with animals in their whole lives.
These are two things that cannot be equated, but to an extent we have been doing so.
The second circumstance that causes major problems is the following.
When farmers transport their own calves, they can do so for up to 50 km.
Permit me to say at this point that we must indeed give further consideration, as a matter of urgency, to how we can help smaller abattoirs operate economically and thus reduce the need for further journeys.
So, then, farmers are permitted to transport their own animals for 50 km but face problems if they take a neighbour's animal along.
That, too, requires some thought.
Is the limit set correctly at 50 km, or should we perhaps be seeking the cause of these developments in the abattoirs, too?
If farmers transport a horse for leisure purposes, there is no problem, and this Regulation does not apply, but if they transport it to market, the Regulation does apply, and they must meet the requirements.
These questions should be discussed and answered in further debates.
