- Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union and its Member States and the United States of America are forces for freedom and democracy.
They set greater store by values than almost anyone else in the community of states on this planet.
The United States once again proved during the last elections that they have the capacity for renewal and rejuvenation in this process based on values and democracy.
In this global order, as the credit crunch has again shown, it is paramount that we Europeans work more closely with the Americans and link our interests, because only then can we lay down standards and deepen relations between our states.
That is why I consider the report by Millán Mon to be extremely important at this juncture.
We must endeavour to push ahead with the Transatlantic Economic Council and apply a policy which removes non-tariff trade barriers, so that we can thus ensure that interests are linked, a transatlantic market is achieved and political relations are thereby also permanently deepened.
We must acknowledge here that this will only happen if the parliaments are involved, because it is only through the parliaments that the majority of regulations can be suitably adapted, and that this process and the proposals in connection with the Transatlantic Legislators' Dialogue and the Transatlantic Assembly are of paramount importance.
Furthermore, it is of decisive importance that we are today developing long-term strategies, that we are in a position to make joint plans and that both sides know what our common interests will be in 10 or 20 years' time, so that we can base our practical policy on them.
I also believe that this will give the Czech Presidency a starting point for highlighting this at the meeting with the Americans on 5 April, so that we can achieve a stronger link in the common interest.
One final comment: all this will only work if the European Union is a stronger and more creditable partner, if it has something like the Treaty of Lisbon and acquires freedom of action in foreign policy.
I should therefore also like to ask that we protect our interests at this hour and remember that we need to take these steps forward so that we can enter into true partnership with the United States of America eye to eye.
