Mr President, Mr Barroso, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to change the tone of this debate and suggest that we all ask ourselves: Who among us does not need to grow and develop?
Who among us does not have scope for improvement?
Who among us never makes mistakes?
A new direction needs to be taken in many areas, not only by the Commission President, but also by us.
There are many new paths for us to tread.
I have the feeling that many people here are looking for one person to blame for the problems which face us, instead of working on solving our common problems with new strength, new ideas, enthusiasm and vision.
Many people make insinuations and generate mistrust in order to divert attention from their own weaknesses.
Many people are also ignoring the election results of 7 June 2009 which form the democratic basis for today's debate.
We accuse the Commission President of doing things that he is obliged to do, in other words, adhering to the treaties and implementing the resolutions.
Someone today uttered the fine statement: 'Without freedom there is no solidarity and without solidarity there is no strong, effective European Union.'
I would like to add: no strong European Commission.
We are all in the same boat.
All of us are jointly responsible.
Each of us has his or her own share of responsibility.
The Commission President has a great deal of the primary responsibility.
However, as Martin Schulz said, this is not just about him.
His strength depends on us, on the Member States, on the competence and quality of the Commissioners.
That is the next chapter in our book.
How will we implement an eco-social market economy?
How will we restructure the Commission?
How will we create a commissioner for financial markets?
What about the diplomatic service?
What about protecting the climate?
At the end of his speech, our President paraphrased a quotation from Bronisław Geremek: 'Let us all work hard in our own way and make the most of the opportunity to bring about change, rather than running each other down!'
