Mr President, Commissioner, I am pleased that we are having this debate.
Of course we have intensive relations with both these countries, but I would like to talk about Mexico in particular.
In our debate, we in the Committee on International Trade saw it as particularly important to discuss matters that affect our area.
It is especially important to us that we strengthen the free-trade agreement once again.
If you look at the figures, you can see that, although our trade has definitely intensified in recent years, there is still considerable demand and that we - and the European side - still have considerable restrictions when it comes to market access.
I would sincerely ask you, Commissioner, to again do everything you can to analyse the situation once more together with your competent colleagues and, where problems exist, to really lift these restrictions.
It makes no sense whatsoever for us, on the one hand, to talk about strategic partnerships with such important countries in Latin America and then, on the other hand, to still have to battle with such absurd market restrictions.
Sometimes, of course, they make sense, but as a rule they are in fact not useful at all.
I would be very grateful to you, and to the committee, if we could resolve this matter.
The second point that we feel is important is that, in the context of global international relations, we should also truly give Mexico the status it deserves.
This, of course, relates in particular to the still very fragile arrangement in connection with the G20.
Our delegation has written a letter, which we have also sent to you, in which we ask that Mexico also sit at the G20 table and for this to be a permanent arrangement rather than merely a brief appearance.
My final request is for you to attend our delegation meeting on 30 and 31 March; I know that you cannot attend personally, but for you to arrange for someone from your area of competence to attend when Mr Guadarrama, Mr Buganza and Mr Green, who chair the Mexico delegation, come so that they really feel that the Commission values the delegation and its visit.
