Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, with these guidelines for the 2010 budget, Parliament in plenary will be not only determining the guidelines for budgetary policy but also, in the absence of a motion for a resolution of the political groups on the subject, reacting to the Commission's Annual Policy Strategy.
The reason the budget is such a complex entity is, of course, that it primarily comprises two stages.
This House and its Committee on Budgets will still be responsible for the July conciliation, and we cannot foresee today what new challenges and complementary measures will result, for example, from the possible entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon or from new requirements arising from international and European cyclical trends.
At the same time, the 2010 budget will subsequently form a bridge to the budget review and to the mid-term review of the multi-annual programmes, both of which are to take place in 2010.
I am very glad to see that the rapporteur, Mr Surján, when discussing aspects of European budgetary policy, emphasises that Europe can stand for opportunities and protection; that is, guaranteeing both internal and external security, offering European citizens protection, and helping to deal with the current problems by giving new momentum to growth, innovation and jobs.
We are not just talking about new money here; we are also talking, in particular, about simplifying and accelerating the existing measures, so that we are not constantly having to return the agreed payments to our solidarity programmes, which already form part of the budget, year after year by means of supplementary budgets.
I also welcome the priorities Mr Maňka has presented for Parliament in his report.
In addition to the need to improve the language arrangements, when it comes to improving the internal structures of Parliament there is a need to continue the screening exercise we have begun rather than always just calling for new positions.
If we are going to pass more laws, we need to concentrate more elsewhere; we cannot always be calling for new positions and posts when we feel like it.
We have a great deal more work ahead of us in this regard.
