Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, the decisive point in the report before us is the change to the legal basis.
Although the Member States of the European Union have developed at different rates and there are still large differences between them in terms of development, we will only achieve more legal certainty if the regulation is the preferred method of choice and remains so in the future.
There are directives that have caused more damage to competition and more injustice than was previously the case as a result of the different ways in which they have been implemented in the Member States.
Therefore, it is right that, in this report, the directive and the national implementation have been concentrated in one comprehensive regulation.
In this way, there is, naturally, an increase in the level of legal certainty, which is extraordinarily important especially for companies in this sector that are also involved in research.
Of course, the Commission's commitment shortly to reduce 25% of compulsory registrations is also very welcome.
We have taken the first step with this regulation.
Congratulations, Commissioner.
The present report also makes it clear how quickly new products can appear on the market and force the legislative authorities to act.
We addressed the issue of changing the Cosmetics Directive as recently as a few years ago.
The use of nanomaterials has forced us to address the issue again.
Within the framework of preventive consumer protection, the decisions concerning labelling are welcome, while the opportunity of provisional acceptance, in view of the state of scientific discoveries is also acceptable.
At this point, I would also like to warn against panic-mongering, as has happened in the case of other developments, and would instead advise a scientific examination of the whole matter.
With the requirements we have implemented, namely that advertising claims and labels only reflect the true features of the product, we are acting as advocates for the consumer.
However, the case of the deodorant which Mrs Roth-Behrendt mentioned, is a different matter.
It works on one person, but does not work on another.
Sometimes the same substance works on me one day, but does not work the next.
Therefore, we should not take the matter quite as seriously.
I only hope that the legal approach will not be diluted by the Commission as a result of far too many measures within the comitology procedure.
Therefore, I ask you not to prolong this procedure too much.
