Madam President, Mr Piebalgs, Mrs Reding, ladies and gentlemen, we need investment now.
We are on the verge of an energy crisis and a financial crisis.
We need to make an effort to invest as quickly and as well as possible, and therefore we cannot but say 'yes' to the construction not only of pipelines but also of LNG ships.
We should build them as quickly as possible, as this would create jobs and thus contribute to full employment in Europe.
The pipelines should not compete with each other; rather, the construction of each new pipeline is a win-win situation, as is the construction of LNG terminals.
This is an important issue for the future.
Above all, we need to invest in energy efficiency, not via state funding, but rather by means of tax breaks.
If we could give every citizen an allowance of EUR 10 000 a year that they could offset against tax, we could make an immediate start on investing in energy efficiency and renewable energy; with regard to the latter, progressive depreciation, in other words the immediate inclusion of costs on the balance sheet, would be a particularly valuable tool.
If we could set a three-year limit for this, it would be a great success for all of us.
We could get a better handle on employment and energy.
In this connection, it is up to Commissioner Kovács to launch an initiative.
One point which particularly exercises us in this programme is, quite naturally, the nuclear industry: it is vital to ensure the safety and security of nuclear power stations, and to do so to the very best of our ability.
It is not possible to set the bar too high here: quite simply, we need people to trust in the European Union that the appropriate steps will be taken, that further security research will be conducted and that there will be legally binding requirements allowing dangerous nuclear power stations to be removed from the grid immediately following a ruling by a court or regulator.
The people of Europe have a right to safety in this field, so that we can go forward into a future in which energy generation does not put us in danger and we can sleep soundly.
The Commission can make a significant contribution to this.
Ultimately, however, it will also be up to the Council, in the group responsible for nuclear safety, to live up to their responsibilities and not to go down a path that the citizens will not appreciate, by blocking proposals from the European Parliament and the Commission.
