on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, because I believe that together we have produced a very good resolution.
This resolution calls on the Council and the Commission to ensure that joint action is taken in Kosovo, that EULEX acts together with the High Representative of the EU and that synergies are created in the interest of the economic and social life of Kosovo which is in need of improvement.
The EULEX mission must also ensure that the court cases which have been going on there for years are finally addressed and brought to an end.
There are still many atrocities which have not yet been exposed and brought before a court.
Combating corruption in Kosovo is also important, as there are still many criminals at large who remain unpunished.
In addition to what we have already heard, the European Union should consider not only taking action on a large scale, but also focusing more closely on the daily life of the people there and the opportunities for local projects involving local people.
This work is very important.
We must call on the government of Kosovo finally to begin the practical implementation of its constitution, which includes the Martti Ahtisaari plan.
The people of Kosovo must become aware in their everyday lives that they all live together.
In addition, Serbs, Albanians and all the other minorities in Kosovo must be regarded as citizens with equal rights.
The government of Kosovo must also push ahead with its decentralisation programme.
I am, of course, very much in favour of establishing a multi-ethnic European college, which would be another joint institution alongside the University of Priština and the University of Mitrovica that focuses on a shared future.
In addition, I would like Serbia to realise at last that the Serbs in Kosovo do not want to be encouraged not to take part in the government.
They must be allowed to take part in the government, in parliamentary work and in civilian life.
This is the only way in which Kosovo will flourish.
