on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, I should like to start by congratulating Mr Lambrinidis on a job well done.
He fully involved all the shadow rapporteurs during the drafting of this report and did his very best to reach compromises.
This report, which addresses the important questions of the information society, is an important step towards creating an Internet which guarantees both security for our citizens and their fundamental freedoms.
The borders between freedom and security do not end at the borders of the virtual world.
He has taken account in his report of the fight against cybercrime, child pornography, identity theft and fraud, as well as copyright violation.
He has tried to involve Europol and makes clear that the current laws of the physical world must also apply to the virtual world.
At the same time, he has managed to strike a balance between the protection of civil rights, freedom of expression, data protection and the right to the complete deletion of data on the Internet.
Up to the present day, the Internet does not forget.
Some of us can be glad that the Internet did not exist when we were still 13, 14, 15 or 16 years old, when we committed the sins of youth which we would not now want to find on YouTube or Facebook.
He has highlighted the need for access to information and, more importantly, access to the Internet and respect for intellectual property.
I am well aware that for many Members the report does not go far enough in respect of the protection of intellectual property and copyright.
Let us work on that with the IP enforcement directive and highlight these points in that directive.
This report makes clear that censorship on the Internet or blocking access to the network, as planned or already implemented by some Member States in Europe, are measures not worthy of our enlightened society and it also makes clear that the European Union is not following the example of totalitarian states and cutting its citizens off from information or feeding them information on a need to know basis.
I am delighted that we have a balanced report here which takes account of the demands of an information society and I would be delighted if both my and other groups gave this report the broadest possible support tomorrow, so that we can develop an Internet in the interests of society.
