Mr President, Mr Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that the mobility of people and goods is quite simply of key importance to citizens' quality of life, growth and employment, the social and territorial cohesion of the European Union and for trade with third countries.
That is why the European Community quite simply needs an infrastructure that meets its needs and equitable transport rules for all modes of transport.
Given that transport also has negative consequences for people and the environment, it must, of course, be further greened, in order, also, to play its role in fighting climate change.
However, I have to tell you, Mr Vice-President, that what you put forward to us as a basis document on the greening of transport was a little too sparse.
I am sorry to say that there is no consistent overall plan and you leave everything open - everything is palmed off on subsidiarity.
If you say that we have to green transport, that must apply throughout the European Union and cannot be made subject to the wishes of the Member States.
It must then apply to everything from the railways to marine transport.
You cannot just pick out road transport - and, in fact, specifically only goods vehicle traffic - and then say 'we will leave it up to the Member States to decide whether or not they want to have road tolls.'
If you want a fundamental change, you need to put forward an integrated plan for all means of transport - and that is something we made very clear in the committee.
Then, however, you also have to do that with scientifically-based impact assessments that take account of the consequences for competition amongst means of transport, mobility costs and the competitiveness of Europe.
The second communication, on the internalisation of external costs, is another example of the compartmentalisation under your system, proposing something and yet not proposing it.
As regards the internalisation of external costs, you again set out a great big handbook that provides a multiplicity of ways to perform calculations, but then, in the end, you say 'we will calculate according to a flat-rate value.'
No one on earth could understand that.
You also fail to take account of the contributions already made by the various means of transport, be it in the form of general taxation, petroleum tax or vehicle tax.
You know, it is the same story with the Eurovignette.
My group agrees with the other groups that exhaust emissions and noise should be taken account of in the external costs and in the charging thereof.
Congestion, though?
Mr Vice-President, congestion is caused by an insufficient provision of infrastructure by the Member States.
To give the Member States money for managing their own shortcomings would be downright madness.
What is more, you are very much aware of the fact that companies have long borne the costs of congestion, as it leads to higher wage costs and higher fuel costs.
With that in mind, it must be said, Mr El Khadraoui, that it makes no sense to internalise the costs of congestion - quite the opposite, in fact.
We must attempt to get rid of this congestion through the prudent upgrading of infrastructure and the deployment of intelligent transport information systems, yet we must not burden businesses, already struggling with rising costs, with additional costs in the form of road tolls.
There is no point in that.
Mr Vice-President, your communication on noise protection measures on the railways is positive, in principle.
As the man on the English-speaking street says, though, 'Where's the beef?'
What are you actually proposing?
You say there are many options.
No, you are the Commission!
You have the right and the duty to put forward proposals that we can then implement.
That is why the Committee on Transport and Tourism is calling on you to actually table a proposal for a directive on the introduction of noise-related track access charges so that, by re-investing the money collected by means of such track access charges in the railway companies - including private companies - we will be able to help see new noise-reducing brakes actually installed.
All of us in this House have a clear goal and that is that noise pollution by the railways must be eradicated.
We want to promote the railways, but then their journey through the serene Rhine valley must also be effected in an environmentally sound manner.
So help us do this - propose something really tangible!
