Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I would like to add to the Commissioner's remarks on the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF).
The EGF is also part of the European social model.
He was right to say, 'a stitch in time saves nine'.
We had intensive discussions with the Commission and I would like to stress that in this case our reaction is swift, but high calibre in terms of content and quality.
It is a compromise which I and my colleagues are very proud of.
I would like to summarise a few thoughts from the discussion: as far as the EGF is concerned, it turns out that thankfully there is broad consensus on revision.
I would like to direct a small appeal to the Commission: please do not only take residual funds out of the European Social Fund (ESF) for the EGF, but collect other residual funds from the budget.
To those of us interested in social policy, it would of course be ideal if the ESF funds were spent entirely on ESF objectives and the EGF funds came from other residual funds; then we would be able to do twice as much good for workers.
To my fellow Members Mrs Lynne, Mrs Sinnott and Mr Burke I will say, by way of example, that the EGF can achieve a lot, but it certainly cannot solve all regional problems.
That is quite clear, and that is not its purpose.
Member States still have some responsibility.
I would like to make another appeal to the Commission: perhaps you can avoid exhausting the funds for technical assistance - 0.35% - which are at your disposal in accordance with the regulation.
Workers would then benefit even more.
The comment by Mr Naranjo Escobar was very accurate and concerns a task for the future.
In view of the economic and financial crisis, we must also revise the Lisbon Strategy.
I would like to direct a comment to Mr Hughes: an employment summit would surely be a fine thing, but I say to you in all honesty, a troika meeting is also appropriate if it produces something rational.
We do not need to have a summit for the sake of it.
We need good and swift results!
