on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in your speech today, Commissioner, you mentioned the contribution made by the cohesion policy to climate protection.
I welcome this change of heart, because there is no emphasis on this in the Green Paper on territorial cohesion.
Why not, given the climate crisis that we are currently facing?
The contribution of the European Structural Funds to environmental transformation is a future issue for territorial cohesion.
The 'Regions 2020' document produced by the Commission shows that climate change has had a massive impact on many of Europe's regions.
As a result, we must change course.
The Structural Funds should be used only to support sustainable projects.
Projects and programmes which cause damage to the climate, and many of these have been approved in the past, should no longer be authorised.
EU funds should not be used to promote programmes and projects which damage the climate.
Why are you not taking this approach already?
The second question concerns the implementation of the partnership principle.
Commissioner, you mentioned that local knowledge is an important foundation for successful development.
Why have you nevertheless approved operational programmes where the partnership principle is clearly being completely disregarded and where the partners have reported that they were not involved?
You have not answered this question.
Local, grass-roots knowledge is an asset for us.
If you continue to attempt to ignore the fact that Member States are completely disregarding the partnership principle and to provide them with subsidies despite this, you will be breaching the Structural Funds Regulation.
You completely fail to mention in your report, which forms the basis for the Mikolášik report, that many Member States have not followed the partnership principle.
You have not taken the partners' reports into account.
Why do you remain silent on this subject?
It is clear at this point that we need a new dimension for the Structural Funds.
They must be based on environmental and democratic principles, make use of local knowledge and follow the partnership principle.
