rapporteur. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking the Commissioner.
After an initial phase of getting to know one another, we have worked together effectively, constructively and openly.
This has been evident in the results of a number of negotiations over recent years.
I wish you all the best during the next few weeks.
I would also like to extend warm thanks to my fellow Members for their hard work and for the discussion which took place in advance of tomorrow's vote in plenary and to Mrs Guy-Quint in her role as rapporteur with regard to the budgetary consequences of the Lisbon Treaty.
We agreed on a common procedure for the key points of the reports, in particular with regard to the three-step approach and the time line.
As we understood that the current Financial Perspective 2007-2013 and, in relation to this, the Interinstitutional Agreement from 2006 represented the maximum that could be achieved in negotiations, we were also fully aware of the failures to act.
This is why it is so important that this report calls for forward-looking agreements in good time and ensures that they involve full commitment.
Our job over the next few weeks and months, in particular with regard to the current negotiations, is all about the Economic Recovery Plan and about reminding the Council that all the elements of the Interinstitutional Agreement, because there are a number of instruments which the Commissioner referred to, are an inseparable part of the overall financial framework.
If all the Member States were a little more aware of this, we would have made more progress with our existing regulations.
Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to call on the Commission in the autumn to take into account the fundamental findings and considerations which Parliament will adopt tomorrow.
This could be an excellent start to making the necessary ambitious changes in the form of a joint effort by the Commission and the European Parliament and, at the same time, to developing a budget which looks to the future and is combined with greater political legitimacy.
This is what Parliament is calling for very strongly and collectively in this report.
