Madam President, the nationalists, the narrow-minded Members of this House, no doubt really believe that the risks and problems of this world can be dealt with by nations alone on an individual basis.
Mr Allister is a typical example.
Does he really believe that terrorism in the world can be combated by counting on his country's national defence alone?
Does he really believe that the problems of energy security can be solved if everyone tackles them on their own?
That approach is antiquated.
Of course, the Treaty of Lisbon, so frequently criticised, would bring the great benefit of enabling us to work together a bit more, for example, in the matter of energy policy and of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, to address effectively the dangers and risks of this world.
The new United States Government under President Obama is pleased that this common European policy exists, as it means that the United States has a partner in tackling a number of these problems.
In addition - something made clear by the frequent presence of Russian representatives in this House - Russia, too, has now realised that the old approach of talking only to individual countries and then playing them off against each other simply no longer works.
Russia has realised that it must talk to the European Union if common solutions are to be reached, for example, in the matter of energy security.
Indeed, this is also mentioned repeatedly in the report by Mr Saryusz-Wolski.
How can we try to solve these problems together: that of energy security, for example?
I am delighted that the High Representative and one of his staff are to further intensify their efforts on this in future, as this will enable us to demonstrate to our citizens how the Common Foreign and Security Policy takes into account their specific interests, and how we mean to prevent Europeans having to shiver again in future.
That is what this is about, and that is why we favour a common foreign and security policy over nationalist foreign policy.
