draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of our society and provide 67% of European private sector jobs.
Therefore, I very much welcome the 'Think Small First' initiative and am committed to ensuring that this principle is taken into account in policymaking at all political and administrative levels.
Particularly at this time of financial crisis it is important to create a genuine, tangible added value for SMEs, in order to strengthen these enterprises as a stabilising factor in the crisis.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, I was involved in formulating the ideas that are now to be voted on.
Numerous proposals of mine have been incorporated into the text, including the importance of the principle of flexicurity.
This concept should create flexible labour markets that are also in line with a high level of employment security.
My call for labour law to provide a reliable basis for SMEs has also been incorporated.
SMEs often cannot afford their own legal or human resources departments and are therefore dependent on simple, clear regulations.
One of my most important demands - the 'SME test' for legislative initiatives - also gained the support of the committee responsible.
Bureaucracy must be nipped in the bud.
Impact assessments are to be carried out systematically in the case of new laws.
Before their adoption, all EU provisions must be examined in terms of their impact on SMEs.
It is important to me that the results of this SME test be subject to an independent evaluation by an independent body, and this idea has been incorporated into the text.
SMEs face particular challenges in the context of the global financial crisis, and so I particularly welcome the report's call for the proposals of Mr Stoiber's High-Level Group of Independent Stakeholders on Administrative Burdens to be implemented as quickly as possible.
We must act quickly to take advantage of this potential.
