rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the mid-term review of the 2007-2013 Financial Framework.
I would like to remind you once again that we originally agreed on a series of interinstitutional declarations which this report calls to be implemented and which we are handing over to the newly elected Parliament in the form of guidelines for the future conduct of the European Parliament in its debates over the next few months.
There were three main declarations which required Parliament to be included in future discussions of revenue and spending policy, in a way which has never been the case in the past.
Therefore, the Commission undertook to present a report on the functioning of the Interinstitutional Agreement at the end of 2009.
The Commission also undertook to present a full, wide-ranging budget review covering all aspects of EU spending, including the common agricultural policy, and of resources, including the United Kingdom rebate, in 2008/2009.
In addition, we must not forget that a mid-term review of many of the multiannual programmes will take place in this House in 2010.
Anyone who looks at the papers from the public consultation will see that the Member States, in contrast to the other bodies which expressed an opinion, are attempting to shirk their responsibilities and the undertaking they have entered into by moving directly to the subsequent Financial Perspective.
I have just come from a discussion on the so-called Economic Recovery Plan, and I would like to say that what is happening here, with the constant search for margins which are no longer available, and with new plans which infringe on the budgetary rights of Parliament, makes it clear that we cannot go on as before.
This is why I am calling on the Commission to present a proposal in the autumn which will not only cover the period after 2013, but will also include a review of the Financial Perspective and open up new prospects for the future.
We state quite clearly in this report that we will focus first of all on existing deficits and the long-term outlook, without dealing in detail with the budgetary impact of the Lisbon Reform Treaty.
For this reason, in the Committee on Budgets we have voted with a large majority in favour of a three-step approach: resolution of the shortcomings and obvious deficits in the outstanding issues that we have not been able to negotiate successfully and clarification that there are budget headings - the main areas of emphasis of our policies - which are chronically under-funded.
For example, we will not achieve our objectives in research and innovation.
In the areas of headings 3a and 3b we will not be able to achieve what we wanted to with regard to culture, youth, education and ensuring our internal and external security.
The Common Foreign and Security Policy is also chronically under-funded.
This is why we have made the following offer to the Council: let us discuss these shortcomings and hold negotiations in this area, but not as part of the struggle over the annual budgetary procedure.
Our proposal is to resolve these problems in an ambitious review and, at the same time, to extend the existing Financial Perspective until 2015 or even 2016, so that in the long term we achieve the necessary democratic legitimacy in the financial framework.
This will involve bringing the term of office of the Commission and the period covered by the financial framework more closely into line with one another.
In addition, we must not forget, in particular in the context of the debate on the European Investment Bank, to ensure that there are no shadow budgets outside the Community budget.
I would like to conclude by saying that this report is in agreement with the reports produced by the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
This is why we are giving the following message to the Commission and the Council: for us the objective of achieving a five-year financial framework which runs in parallel with the term of office of the Commission is not negotiable.
We are only prepared to negotiate about how we achieve our objective.
Thank you very much.
