Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, so much effort, so little effect!
This is how one might summarise the work to adapt the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund (EGF) to the needs of the economic and financial crisis.
Little effect because, in view of the number of employees concerned and the depth of the crisis, the total funds allocated to this instrument - namely EUR 500 million - seems a meagre amount.
However, that would be the wrong conclusion altogether.
The achievements of the EGF, following restructuring in conjunction with the other solidarity and support instruments, which we have at European level, are there for all to see.
The EGF is the baby here.
It was first created in 2006 and was supposed to be a clear sign that globalisation does not just have positive effects on workers, but through mass redundancies, and especially through company relocations, can also have negative repercussions for workers.
Thus even the more frugal budget specialists laid aside their concerns and we opened another funding pot.
Now the effects of globalisation have been completely overwhelmed by the financial and economic crisis and our measured reaction is the adjustment of the funding criteria of the EGF.
At the same time, one problem for our deliberations on revision was that, because of the newness of the EFG, there was no great wealth of experience in the Commission and we still find it difficult to judge the efficiency of the present rules.
I would also like to note that, for the future, the coexistence of the EGF and the European Social Fund should not be overlooked.
The majority of the Committee on Employment came out in favour of temporary validity for the regulation which is to be amended, so that the provisions will now apply to all applications filed by 31 December 2011 and, as regards content, will affect those workers who have lost their jobs as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis.
This means that from 2012 we must once again reflect on the continued validity of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund.
In terms of content it undoubtedly represents an alleviation, if the trigger figure for redundant workers in a given region is reduced from 1 000 to 500, and, at the same time, the payment period is raised from 12 to 24 months.
This facilitates the application process and provides sustainable support for our workers until they have found a new job.
The level of the EU financing share and cofinancing from national budgets was a highly controversial issue.
We have found a compromise.
It remains basically at 50% - so 50:50 - and only in special cases can the financing share from European funds be raised to 65%.
I am very happy about this.
In committee we have therefore already put a stop to further wishful thinking, as a Member State which receives funds for its workers should already be aware of its responsibilities.
This is best achieved if it has a substantial financial contribution to make itself.
I am especially pleased that we were able to reach a consolidation - 20% of the direct costs - in our talks with the Council and the Commission.
This is exactly what we agreed in committee a few days ago for the European Social Fund.
There is still enough room for future amendments and improvements.
I would like to thank you for your constructive cooperation at every stage, both in committee and with the Council and Commission, and ask you to support the amendment.
