Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, without a doubt we Christian Democrats recognise the sovereignty of the People's Republic of China over its territory, including Tibet.
However, at the same time we reject China's view that any statement from the European Union regarding human rights in China constitutes impermissible interference in China's internal affairs.
According to a modern understanding of human rights and international law - which hopefully China will also soon share - the international community is required express concern about human rights in all parts of the world, particularly in very blatant cases.
How else could an International Criminal Tribunal take action against the crimes against humanity in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and pass judgment if it did not have the right to intervene for the sake of human rights?
The People's Republic of China and its government should therefore recognise that the discussion of human rights such as the freedom of assembly, the freedom of an independent press, religious freedom and the rights of cultural minorities in Tibet and in other parts of China does not constitute impermissible interference.
It must face up to this discussion.
Our main concern today, however, is simply the plea - and I cannot therefore understand Mr Ford in this regard, although he has always been more on the side of the Chinese government - for the People's Republic of China and its government to resume talks with the Dalai Lama as leader of a large proportion of the Tibetan people.
To be honest - as my fellow Member has already said -the government did hold these talks last year, but broke them off after the Olympic Games.
We are forced to suspect then that these talks were only conducted during the Olympic Games to divert our attention.
However, Mr Ford, we will not allow our attention to be diverted.
We will place this matter on the agenda time and again and we call on the Chinese Government to enter into real and serious talks with the Dalai Lama, as human rights are still being violated in Tibet and we must ensure that this situation changes.
