on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, in light of the signing of the Shia family law, which shows contempt for women, in Afghanistan, I urge the Commission to make the rights of women a central part of its Afghanistan strategy once again.
In November 2002, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament sent a delegation under my leadership to Afghanistan in order to make sure that women were not being excluded in the reconstruction of the country.
We held talks with President Karzai, numerous government representatives, women's and human rights organisations, and we were very encouraged.
An awakening to more in the way of safety, stability and prosperity for women, including without the burka, seemed to be within reach.
The health system, education, training and the chance to earn a living were opened up to women after the Taliban rule.
The highest child mortality rate in the world seemed to be improving.
Through our intervention, a 25% quota for women was included in the new constitution for the first parliament that was to be elected and around four million refugees returned to their war-ravaged country.
Unfortunately, however, very little has happened in the last five years.
Warnings from women's rights organisations, such as medica mondiale, that violence must be stopped seemed to go totally unheeded, and at the beginning of April the radical Islamic Taliban in Kandahar murdered the German-Afghan women's rights campaigner Sitara Achikzai.
We were forced to discover that other women had been shot, such as the highest-ranking police officer.
We must not sit back and watch this happen and do nothing about it.
The civilian awakening is at serious risk.
We must put a stop to this new Shia family law.
The European Parliament resolution must state loud and clear that the law must be thrown out.
If that does not succeed, international support for Afghanistan is also at risk if women's rights are not respected.
Either an awakening into the international community, which respects human rights, or regression into oppression by the Taliban is what is on the cards.
This must be said loud and clear to Mr Karzai!
