Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, indeed, our culture and media policy is about giving Europe a soul.
It has been quite rightly established, by Commission President Barroso amongst others, that people will not fall in love with the internal market - as important as it is - but want to see and enjoy cultural diversity, the cultural heritage of Europe.
They also want cultural diversity to be the ambassador of Europe in the world.
Mrs Pack was quite right when she said, using a sentence of Wim Wenders, that we need European images to tell European stories, to express the diversity of European history and of European sensibilities.
What was the tragedy of European history, and what are the great hopes of a peaceful and better future?
That is the basic cultural understanding of the European Union, which we not only want to cultivate internally but also need to convey to the outside world.
That is why European culture policy, and film policy in particular, is always an ambassador for European identity.
That is why I am pleased that we have succeeded in getting this programme off the ground.
I should like to say from the outset that, in the next parliamentary term, this programme must be extended, invigorated and injected with more finances, so that the MEDIA Mundus programme can really fulfil its role of making it clear, in international cooperation, what European values are and what European cultural diversity is.
There must also be co-productions, collaboration, training in the best sense of the word, a win-win situation which enriches both sides.
In this age of globalisation and digitalisation it will be the trademark of European policy on culture.
Today, I should also like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Hieronymi for her very good cooperation and for succeeding in making it clear in this House that, while culture has an economic side, it is always more than just a commodity.
It is really about identity, diversity, cultural confrontation - in the best sense of the word.
Because that is what moves people in their hearts and minds.
Placing more trust in Europe than hitherto must be our obligation for the future.
For that reason, Mrs Hieronymi, I extend my sincerest thanks for your good cooperation and wish you all the best for the future.
(Applause)
