Mr President, I would firstly like to thank you, Mr Vondra, for your personal commitment, as it is only thanks to this that it was possible to push through the large legislative packages during the Czech Presidency.
For this I would like to offer you my sincere thanks.
However, I would like to pick up on what you have said, to be precise about the appointment of the new Commission.
You said you would consult Parliament.
I should give you or the Council a word of advice straight away: you know very well, and President Barroso knows too, that we want a change of course.
We want a change of course, we want a Commission which pays more attention to social policy than was previously the case.
Unfortunately, President of the Commission, what Mr McCreevy has put forward as regards hedge funds, is not what Mr Nyrup Rasmussen proposed and it is not something we can accept.
The European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats seem to be behind it.
We are not in favour of such a directive, which, like Swiss cheese, has more holes than substance.
We have no faith in Mr McCreevy's plan.
Again, I would like to come back to your consultation, which you can have today.
For us, choice of direction means that social policy must be much more strongly represented in the work of both the Commission and the Council.
In our view you must also trust the candidate and give them the authority to move the social strength to the fore.
In case this is too abstract we, the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, have set it all down in a position paper entitled 'For a Europe of Social Progress'.
This ranges from the amendment of the Posting of Workers Directive to the Social Chapter, which in addition to the treaties, in addition to Lisbon, should also clearly set out the social dimension of this Europe.
This is different, Mr Daul, from the paper which the PPE-DE recently concluded in Warsaw.
If you compare both papers, there is a huge difference.
We commit ourselves clearly to the social market economy and 'social' is underlined three times.
In its paper, the PPE-DE mentions the social market economy in some parts and the free, that is unrestrained, unregulated market economy in others.
That is not what we want, that is precisely the difference between the PPE-DE and our Group.
Let me say a few more words about the economic situation, which you mentioned.
Mr Nyrup Rasmussen will express this clearly and articulately.
In addition to this activity, which Mr Schulz is publicising and promoting throughout Europe at this very moment - I therefore ask you to accept Mr Schulz's apology - I would once more like to make it clear: the economic crisis has again made it obvious that the lack of economic coordination, for which not only the Commission, but also the Council is responsible, is partly to blame for the weak manner in which we are dealing with this crisis.
There would have been a crisis one way or another, but the fact that we do not have sufficient instruments to counter it, that we still have not made progress with Euro funds, is something that depresses us deeply.
The last point I would like to mention, because it is of particular concern to me, is rising youth unemployment.
Commissioner Špidla put it quite clearly: now a generation of young people are coming on to the labour market and what do they experience?
Mass youth unemployment!
So we all have to do something about this.
All of us - the Council, the Commission and individual governments must strive to ensure that the first thing that young people experience in the labour market is not unemployment, but training and further education, so that they are better equipped for the labour market.
We have to send out this message to young people together, because this is extremely important for social stability in our society.
