Madam President, I would like to thank Mr Florenz very much for his report, which, unfortunately, has not been a great success, probably partly as a result of the fact that it has been discussed very much in the shadow of the legislative package on climate change.
We must face up to the consequences of climate change; there is no question about that.
It is only the means for doing so chosen by the report that I cannot fully support.
Firstly, it is right that the EU should take the first steps to protect the climate, but it is not beneficial to rush on ahead alone without the involvement of partners.
Europe leading the way is not enough to convince the rest of the world.
A more viable approach must involve the industrial nations and at least China, India and Brazil, otherwise Europe's economy will remain unfairly burdened without there being any measureable effects on global CO2 emissions.
Secondly, with our current level of knowledge, renewable energies cannot completely replace fossil energy sources.
It may be motivating on a political level to demand that, but it is not realistic.
The political will, as great as that may be, will not nullify any physical laws.
Thirdly, biofuels are hailed as environmentally-friendly alternatives.
Their negative side effects on food prices, which are rising as a result of these biofuels, and rainforests, which are being deforested, are not as yet under control.
Fourthly, a means of mobility that protects resources in the long term is a reasonable goal.
Providing incentives may help to achieve this goal.
However, we should consider at what point state intervention is going too far and at what stage we can claim to have knowledge that we do not have today.
No one currently knows which technologies will best meet the mobility needs of individuals in 50 years' time and politicians certainly do not have any better idea of this than engineers do.
Although it started with good intentions, what remains, unfortunately, is a report full of wishful thinking in written form, with moral appeals and pointing fingers.
Unfortunately, the German liberals cannot give their support to this.
