rapporteur. - Mr President, I have already given my opinion on certain things in the first round of talks.
However, I would like to say once again very clearly that the world, including our partners in the United States, China and other places, is watching the European Union, the Council, the Commission and Parliament to see how we will react to the crisis.
I have already said that there has been a reaction, which we notice in certain rules that are being re-drafted.
Things are moving somewhat in the US in terms of the Reinsurance Directive and other things like that, such as the collaterals.
Moreover, the received wisdom is that, if we, as Europeans, do not have anything concrete in our hands, then our partners will not react.
Last month and this month we took decisions and got them off the ground, and we managed to find reasonable solutions together with the Council.
I would once again like to take this opportunity to thank the Commission, which was sometimes a bit heavyhanded, and the Council, where we tried to find reasonable solutions in night sittings and in many trialogue sittings, because, just an hour ago, they also approved the reasonable compromise we found.
I of course thank my co-combatants in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, Mrs Berès, Mrs Bowles and others, but also the members of staff, who had to bear a large part of the burden.
I believe that it is important to perhaps point out once again that I was involved in the introduction of the European Single Market, as coordinator during the introduction of the euro and other things like that.
These are milestones that have naturally informed this work and also policy making.
It has been fun working with you all, and I should once again like to thank my fellow Members, the Commission and the Council - I have already said that - for their cooperation.
I wish all those who will voluntarily not be returning all the best for the future.
There are many tasks, including the task of conveying just how important the European Union is and what an important job the European Parliament does.
It is also important for the elections to be held in Germany on 7 June and elsewhere from 4 to 7 June that people's attention is drawn to just how important our work is.
I hope that there will then be a high turnout.
Once again, many thanks to you all and all the best for the future.
This is my last speech, as I have already said.
