Mr President, Commissioners, I wish to express my thanks for the many kind words that have been said today.
I believe this is a good report.
On the subject of whether criminal activity can be prevented, this report cannot do so, of course, but the improved intensity of controls it provides may deter such activity.
Criminal activity always focuses where it sees an opportunity, where it sees loopholes, and we have now been able to close these in some areas.
I hope - as Mr Nicholson said - that both the feed industry and farmers will understand that there is something to be defended here, that a community is being formed against these attempts to dispose of toxic substances via feed.
I am fairly sure that this will also curb criminal activity.
I should like to make clear once more that we are not creating a separate line for intellectual property here, but rather making reference to the legislation already in force, which also applies to this field.
We wanted to prevent the duty of information from hiding behind these intellectual property rights.
That is why this is a good arrangement.
Let me conclude by thanking the shadow rapporteurs.
Here, too, there were arguments, of course - after all, we hold different opinions in this House - but I believe that what we subsequently created now has everyone's support.
I should also like to thank our committee's administrative team - in this case Mr Emmes - who did outstanding groundwork.
Although we Members of the European Parliament always play a leading role in the political field, in the administrative field we do need to be able to fall back on this groundwork.
Here, too, this was very successful.
I should like to add that, when we have codecision, parliamentarianism is fun.
It was always said that codecision in agriculture would make everything much more complicated and time-consuming.
This is not true, as we have seen that, given good work, a good understanding of matters, good groundwork and good political opponents, things can be staged very quickly.
I think that this is proof that the expertise of the European Parliament can serve, and help, to set good legislation in motion.
