Madam President, first may I clarify that I am speaking on the subject of Turkey on behalf of my group and not in my own name.
Developments in Turkey are a matter for concern to liberals and democrats.
In three years, there has not only been too little progress in the pace of reform, there have also been some setbacks.
As Commissioner Rehn rightly stated here, freedom of the press is a core value in the European Union.
In a country which wants to accede to the EU, there must be respect for the freedom of the press beyond all doubt.
However, what we see is something else.
Critical journalists have difficulty obtaining credentials.
The new owner of ATV still has a great many questions to answer, there are calls from the highest offices for a boycott on certain media and the Dohan group has been hit with an arbitrary tax penalty of EUR 400 million.
This is an arbitrary measure which brings us to the question of the rule of law, which is as important to liberals as freedom of the press.
The rule of law must also be guaranteed.
Reports on increasing cases of torture and maltreatment in police custody are deeply worrying to us, especially where they take place outside official prisons or police stations, but of course, if they take place there, that of course also worries us.
Symbolic or purely pragmatic measures such as the acceptance of a new programme or the appointment of a new chief negotiator are welcome, if you look at it from a purely practical point of view.
However, they alone are not enough to give renewed impetus to the pace of reform.
In the opinion of the liberals and democrats, Turkey must reform its economy and society, politics and constitution irrespective of its accession prospects, in its own interest, in the interests of its people.
I should like if I may to say something else about this debate.
This debate reminds me of a fairground carousel, on which sometimes a Turkish, sometimes a Croatian and sometimes a Macedonian horse rides by.
I think we should restructure this debate, and soon.
Moreover, I would be grateful if we held it in Brussels and not in Strasbourg.
