Mr President, Commissioner, like the Commissioner, I would also like to send my condolences to the families of the victims of this savage attack.
I would also like to say in advance that I support all of Turkey's efforts and endeavours in the direction of democratisation.
They are certainly intended to bring Turkey closer to the European Union - not 'into', but 'closer' to the European Union.
I also believe that we must proceed with a policy of zero tolerance in the area of human rights and democratisation and must expect extremely high standards.
The examples which our colleagues have given speak for themselves and we can see that Turkey still has a very, very long road ahead of it before it reaches EU standards.
They also prove that so far Turkey has neglected to address and implement these fundamental constitutional reforms.
The system in Turkey is still characterised by the fact that there is no clear cut division of power between the various state authorities, and this is the root of many of the problems we find in Turkey's political life today.
Unfortunately, it must also be said that the list of unsolved problems is getting longer rather than shorter.
For example, I will pinpoint parliamentary rights: there are particularly large deficits in the area of parliamentary budgetary control of military spending.
The parliament has hardly any say in this and, what is more, there are special funds over which the parliament has no control whatsoever.
In addition, the immunity of individual members of parliament is regulated in an extremely ambiguous way.
In this respect, there is a massive need for reform in Turkey.
Unfortunately, Turkey has also failed to sign various European and international agreements - the Convention against Torture, for example.
I believe it is really up to Turkey to set a good example here and meet European and international standards.
I could recite even more points, but I will leave it there and call upon the Commission to pay strict attention to progress in these areas.
