on behalf of the PSE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I should like to thank both rapporteurs on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
Good reports have again been produced here and will have broad support.
I should like to pick up on what Commissioner Rehn said, because it seems to me that it was the most important message in today's debate; namely, that the process of the integration, the rapprochement of the countries of southeast Europe should not be interrupted, not only in the interests of these countries, but also in our own interest.
The Commissioner said that you need to be realistic in the Commission.
Perhaps in this Parliament we could be a bit more idealistic but, in the final analysis, we too must be realistic.
It is a long and difficult road and the objective will not be achieved overnight.
That is why the comments which I hear from a few people, along the lines of 'let Croatia join and that will put an end to it for some time', are the wrong signal.
Nothing that Mrs Pack called for and rightly demanded will come about if people there have the feeling that, come what may, they are not welcome in this European Union and their accession will be dragged out anyway.
The second point is that we must say loud and clear that the bilateral problems which currently concern us, at least the procedure, the process, should be resolved in the same way as bilateral questions; in future, they should be dealt with before negotiations commence, so that they do not encumber the entire negotiation procedure.
Thirdly, what the minister said is also very important.
We cannot do the work of the politicians and the people in the country for them.
The people in the country need to do their own work.
As Doris Pack said, the political forces must resolve their own problems.
That will then open the path to the European Union and this path must depend on the performance of these countries and not on our willingness.
Our willingness must be there.
