Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Schlyter, for his hard work on this proposal.
We have now come to a good compromise with the Council, which can be accepted after the first reading.
It is question here of restricting the marketing of dichloromethane and its use in paint stripping products, in order to reduce the risks identified in several major studies carried out on behalf of the Commission.
There is no doubt that dichloromethane is hazardous to human health because it is highly volatile.
This volatility causes highly concentrated vapours to form in the ambient air which can easily be inhaled by users of paint strippers and which then have a direct toxic effect on the central nervous system.
In poor working or operating conditions, this has led to or contributed to fatal accidents in several Member States.
The majority of accidents and fatalities have taken place in a commercial and professional environment, in particular as a result of inadequate ventilation and failure to use personal protective equipment.
However, consumers have also been involved in accidents, although the number of accidents reported in this case is much smaller.
The Commission's proposal is intended to reduce as far as possible and as far as technically feasible the risks involved in the use of this hazardous chemical.
In the version amended by Parliament and the Council, the sale of paint strippers containing dichloromethane to consumers will be banned completely.
There should also be a ban on consumers using this substance, because they do not generally have the necessary personal protective equipment and cannot be trained or supervised to ensure that they use the substance safely.
The marketing and use of dichloromethane by professionals will be subject to a general ban.
However, as some Member States believe that it is essential for professionals to continue using this substance in future, these Member States will be given the option of permitting its use under specific strict conditions.
These Member States must impose specific rules and regulations for authorising professionals which fit into their existing national systems.
Professional users will only be granted authorisation after they have completed a training course.
The training course must, among other things, provide information about the risks of dichloromethane and the availability of alternative substances.
Employers and self-employed people should preferably replace dichloromethane with other substances or procedures, taking into account the relevant workplace safety legislation.
The use of paint strippers containing dichloromethane will continue to be permitted on commercial premises, provided that all the necessary measures have been taken to keep the exposure of the people working there to a minimum.
For example, it is essential to ensure that there is adequate ventilation in order to remain as far as possible within workplace limits.
Measures to minimise evaporation from containers of paint stripper must also be put in place.
In addition, protective respiratory equipment must be worn when the workplace limits are exceeded.
Mr Schlyter recommends that you support the compromise text negotiated with the Council.
I also believe that this compromise represents a good balance.
I am therefore in a position to give my full support to the compromise on behalf of the Commission.
