on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Investment Bank and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development have existed in the shadows for a long time.
Over recent years a large section of the public has hardly been aware of their presence.
I hope that in times of financial and economic crisis this will now change, because these important European institutions are becoming more significant than ever.
Given the large amounts of money which both banks handle and allocate in the form of loans, it is crucial that they work according to clear criteria and principles.
The fact that these are public institutions is not in itself a guarantee that this is the case.
We have public banks, for example in Germany, which have breached these principles and have got into difficulties, in just the same way as many private banks.
I hope that both institutions, the EIB and the EBRD, set their priorities on the basis of very clear considerations and that these priorities will in future, when we look back on this period, be seen as correct and realistic.
The important thing is, and I can only support the banks in this respect, that they continue to focus on medium-sized companies, which are the backbone of the European economy, and that they focus on projects which clearly fulfil the criterion of sustainability.
The banks have a very good rating, better than triple-A.
This enables them to obtain and provide financing on relatively favourable terms.
We must ensure that we do not place them under excessive strain and, particularly in times of crisis, do not attempt to use them as a source of capital in areas where other sources of capital may already be drying up.
I am pleased that the Members of the European Parliament will be involved in identifying the priorities from next year onwards.
I believe that the fact that the banks are even more accountable to Parliament than they have been in the past will form the basis for good and constructive cooperation.
One last point: I would encourage both banks to increase their efforts and to make sure that they do not duplicate their activities.
They should instead supplement each other's work and work together in a complementary way.
It also seems important to me that the EBRD continues to play a role in the transition countries, because we must not abandon these countries, especially in times of crisis.
