Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Hieronymi, I should like to extend my sincere congratulations on this report.
All of us on the Committee on Culture and Education can be pleased and proud of what we have accomplished in such a short time.
We have demonstrated that we can work flexibly and that we are not bound by procedure but pay due regard to the concerns of those who work in the film industry and who are urgently waiting for this policy to be successfully concluded.
We have speeded up our work and we will still be able to work after the policy has been adopted and the resolution has been passed.
We have not insisted on a reading.
Those who constantly criticise our work and malign the positive things we have done should bear this in mind.
I am pleased that, in the year of creativity and innovation, we are helping the creative to be more innovative and enabling them to further their training and become more globally integrated.
In the digital world, everything changes day by day, technology is different and there are new resources and new challenges.
It is therefore necessary to create another network.
This needs the financial support we are giving.
If we want to further the growth of our European film industry and promote the idea of Europe, we not only need better quality, which is already very good but could be even better, but we must also give our creative artists financial assistance.
With the economic crisis on everyone's lips, creating new jobs in the film industry, enabling innovation, improving information sharing, research and market research is a contribution to creating jobs.
There is huge potential here for enriching the job market.
As far as cross-border cooperation and dissemination in third countries are concerned, I should like to give an example.
For me, Slumdog Millionaire is an example of success.
This film, which went around the world, was supported by the MEDIA Mundus programme to the tune of EUR 830 000 and became a global success; it made us more aware of an emergency situation in a particular country.
However it also showed what it means when we cooperate on a cross-border basis.
That is why I think this programme is an excellent programme and I am pleased that we completed it without any problems in such a short time.
I should especially like to thank Mrs Hieronymi and wish her all the best.
She has been an excellent colleague and media expert.
Thank you, Mrs Hieronymi, and all the best.
