Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, Mrs Gacek, it seems that we are now quite alone in this House.
On behalf of the Commission, I should like to thank you for this very important, impressive report and to extend our congratulations.
The issue here is something very important: European citizenship.
Many think 'European citizenship' is a hollow phrase and means nothing, but your report makes quite clear that that is not the case.
European citizenship is made a reality by means of rights that are precisely defined in the Treaty, to wit free movement and right of residence, the right to vote and stand for election in local and European elections, the right to consular protection, the right to petition the European Parliament, the right to complain to the European Ombudsman and the right to write to the European institutions.
The Commission takes the view that it is high time there was a specific policy programme on European citizenship.
To this end, the Commission intends to carry out a comprehensive consultation process so that specific information can be gathered on the problems of European citizenship.
This could lead to new proposals, which would then form the basis of the Sixth Commission Report on Citizenship of the Union, which is scheduled for 2010.
Aside from this, however, the Commission is working and will continue to work day to day to ensure that citizens are indeed able to exercise their civil rights, and are able to do so every day.
In a large number of areas where your report, Mrs Gacek, calls on the Commission to act, the Commission is already taking action to ensure that these rights are reinforced and extended.
I should like to give the example of the Commission Action Plan on consular protection, and would add that I fully agree with you that this is an area in which something needs to be done.
After all, just a few weeks ago, we held an extremely instructive debate on the subject in this House that showed the extent of the gulf between aspiration and reality in the very case of consular rights.
The Commission has arranged for citizens to be informed about their rights by means of information campaigns, and is endeavouring to put in place guarantees that these rights can actually be exercised - particularly by adopting its report on the application by Member States of the Directive on free movement.
The forthcoming European elections are one of the priorities of interinstitutional public relations.
The Commission supports and supplements Parliament's campaign to put in place information measures to increase public awareness of these elections and to call on citizens to exercise their electoral rights.
It is fortunate that we are doing so, and I should also like to emphasise that it is not just the Commission that is endeavouring to realise European citizenship in day-to-day life.
Other actors, too - this Parliament, all 27 Member States, the regional authorities, the national Parliaments, the local authorities and every municipality in the European Union - play a very important role in the effective development of European citizenship.
I am pleased that the report by Mrs Gacek, published in good time before the 2009 European elections, involves some of these very important actors, who should all take ownership of European citizenship in order to make Europe real for its millions of citizens.
I believe we all see it as our shared responsibility to ensure that European citizenship is seen not as a mere symbol but as a specific right to which substance can and must be given in day-to-day life.
