rapporteur. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would, in particular, like to say good morning to my fellow Members who have been working for months on this climate report.
I am very grateful to you for the fair and cooperative way in which you have worked with me to put together this report.
The procedure in a horizontal committee was new.
We did not have discussions with experts in a group, but with people from the transport sector, and, quite rightly, with people from the economic sector and, of course, also with people from the energy sector.
It was quite clear during this process that the first hours and days of the debate were somewhat tougher because this was new subject matter.
At this point, I would like once again to thank our Chairman and my good friend, Mr Sacconi, who always presided in an excellent and fair manner.
Today's achievement, which we have noted, is essentially that this horizontal cooperation presents a great opportunity, and with the next composition of Parliament we ought to make sure that people talk to each other more and that we do not just have individual groups opposing each other.
That has been the greatest advantage of this committee.
We had invited quite high-level experts such as Nobel Peace Prize winner Rajendra Pachauri, and experts in science, research and, of course, politics.
Finally today we have an outcome in hand which shows us that the report has proved to be very positive.
We know very well that prohibitions, sanctions and doing without achieve very little.
Instead, we must encourage changes in awareness as well as innovation and motivation.
Our aim must be for the engineers of Europe to get up each morning and take pleasure in trying to build machines that work more efficiently in this world in order to utilise our children's raw materials better and considerably more efficiently.
The report is also honest.
We have stated that we do not have any super weapons.
There is no switch that we can flick, not in Brussels nor in Bali nor in Poland in December; instead we have a whole host of measures.
This is precisely where the opportunity lies: the opportunity to make it clear to the people that they themselves are responsible for a third of this climate change, for example as a result of them heating their houses.
As citizens, however, we are all responsible for a third, including as a result of mobility and all that entails, and industry is also responsible for a third.
The report is therefore directed at us all.
That is the wonderful thing about it.
We do not need to look for a villain; we are all urged to take part in innovative discussions.
I am particularly pleased about that.
It is also clear that this report is evenly balanced, and I would like to emphasise that once again, because it does not represent any party programmes.
Nor does it disparage any area.
Instead, we point out that in certain areas there are more opportunities, whereas in other areas we have fewer opportunities.
For that reason, the report also states that it ultimately points the way and indicates the way forward - particularly for Europe, as in Europe we have a vast amount of environmental technology, the volume of which is comparable with the European car industry.
The amount will increase, and we must work on this to bring about innovation.
I just said that we should involve our citizens so that they can do something in their own houses.
In this connection, local politics, chambers of commerce and industry and trade associations can achieve a considerable amount in terms of motivation and the provision of information.
Let me conclude by saying that the many benefits that we have demonstrated in this report should make us realise that the opportunities lie in innovation and not in depression.
If we understand that, then this task has been worthwhile.
