Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am, of course, pleased by the congratulations, but I must say that, in the trialogue, you are only ever as strong or as quick as those you are working with.
I am therefore happy to share the credit for Mr Bulfon's compliment with all of you.
I must say, however, and I think this is extremely important, that I did not feel pressurised by anyone, nor did I feel under political pressure.
The only difficulty that there was in this legislative proposal - and I do not want to hide this, it was also discussed a little - was, of course, that of framing this ambitious legislation so that we would not be losing jobs in the European Union, but safeguarding them.
This balance was not always easy to achieve on individual points, but I believe that, in the end, we did find a very sound middle ground solution that satisfies all the interests.
All the same, I have to say that, for all the processes that we have settled in trialogue over recent weeks or months, there was repeated criticism that things were moving too quickly.
That is something that we could certainly discuss at the beginning of a parliamentary term and then stick to for that entire term, but there should be no criticism that processes are democratically unsound at the end of a term - the time when particular issues are being resolved - after three years of participation in such a process here in Parliament.
I accept the criticism, but I think that this issue is something that would need to be resolved immediately after the elections for the entire parliamentary term.
It is also important for this proposal to be put back in the context of Mr Sacconi's proposal, which has been successfully passed.
His proposal was about reducing the CO2 emissions from motor vehicles to 130 grams, with 10 grams to be envisaged for additional measures.
One part of these additional measures has now been regulated.
I cannot wait to see how we will take up the rest of these grams that have yet to be decided and what proposals the Commission will put forward for Parliament to decide upon.
I might add that, when it came to the issue of the transitional period, we had to find a middle path, from an economic point of view.
We have not laid down the 30-month period conclusively, but instead, the Commission is to carry out another impact assessment for each individual type of tyre, on the basis of which we can then decide until when the deadline can run for each type.
It is my belief that it makes the most sense economically to remove tyres lawfully produced in the European Union as quickly as possible from circulation, but only when the market really offers the proper potential to do that.
I would like to close, therefore, by offering my sincere thanks, once again, to all those who were involved.
