Mr President, Mr Karim is absolutely right.
The problem is in the very wording, in the fundamentals of Article 20 itself.
It is necessary to take account of the reality on the ground.
Of course it is.
For one thing, not all Member States have consular protection and in many cases what consular protection there is is very limited and the security structures are insufficient even for the consuls themselves.
I have personal experience of this in relation to the German consul, who drove through the night in order to gather his colleagues, with his driver but no security, on roads that were by no means safe.
Quite simply, such conditions are unacceptable.
You cannot go to countries such as India or to Latin American countries - there are many other countries where a presence is required in such a critical place as Mumbai - and then have only a small number of staff and inadequate security structures.
Intelligence is not passed on at all, the Member States have no access to the information, and so on.
This means that there is no end to the limitations and it is no wonder that Member States are unable to provide the degree of protection for their own citizens or for their officials to anything like the degree they may wish.
That is why it is important that the Council and the Commission undertake a careful analysis of this issue.
You cannot preach about always being present all over the world and seeing Europe as a global partner and then fail to even have in place a security structure and not be in possession of any intelligent information systems.
We are simply opening ourselves up to ridicule if we do not thoroughly analyse our own structures and ensure the requisite level of additional protection.
I would thus offer you the urgent advice that you really must carry out a thorough re-evaluation of the structures, that you must carry out simulations, as other States do, and that you must not concentrate solely on the key capitals, the metropolises, but that in these megacountries and megacities you just have to realise that you also need appropriate representation in the other large cities of the world.
Mumbai will happen again.
There will be another Mumbai, just as past disasters have been repeated.
Realise this and, I urge you to be prepared for it.
