Mr President, Commissioner, Mrs Hieronymi, the MEDIA Mundus programme is a project based on an idea originating in our Committee, the Committee on Culture and Education.
That is where it saw the light of day, so to speak.
Above all, we gave it our strong backing and it of course bears the hallmark not only of the commissioner but also of Mrs Hieronymi, whom all of us on the Committee on Culture and Education were glad to support.
We have learned a great deal from the Erasmus Mundus project, which opened the door for our students wishing to go to third countries and vice versa.
In the context of globalisation, this is actually necessary, and MEDIA Mundus goes in the same direction with regard to film-makers.
It is a wonderful example of how one can organise an intercultural dialogue in this field, which has a commercial aspect of course, but which is also, and above all, a cultural dialogue.
MEDIA Mundus will also support and implement the UNESCO Convention promoting cultural diversity in Europe and across the globe, establishing dialogue and striking a balance between economic and economical interests.
With MEDIA Mundus we of course strengthen the mobility of our films, film-makers and students and, in the end, what Wim Wenders keeps reminding us to do happens, namely we give Europe a new face, we turn the European dream into reality.
The American dream has been conveyed to us through films for decades, and this is still the case today.
If we eventually go so far as to bring the European dream to the world in cooperation with third countries, through images, we will have done much more to stabilise the European Union than we could have done in many other ways.
If we work together in today's globalised world, we will be able to drive the Americans back on the world market to some extent and portray our dream a little better.
I am sure we will be supported by third countries, perhaps South Korea or countries of South America, which we in fact want to help by making their small-scale productions become more visible on the European market.
All in all, this is a project that helps all sides.
It helps the third countries and the European film industry.
It was high time this happened.
MEDIA Mundus is, in my view, the appropriate response to global technical and socio-economic challenges.
I should like to end by saying: 'What helps our diversity will strengthen our identity'.
