Mr President, on the subject of the energy security strategy and Mrs Laperrouze's report, one thing that I believe the Commission's proposal and the Laperrouze report have in common is that they do not set any priorities.
They are a hotchpotch of everything for which pressure groups all over the place have been lobbying the Commission or Parliament.
As long as we do not set priorities, we shall never allocate money wisely.
In point of fact, the priority is plain for all to see.
We must begin with the efficiency of buildings, vehicles, fridges and so on.
There is nothing cheaper and nothing that will create more jobs.
Secondly, there is renewable energy.
When we say that 60% of the whole energy mix should come from renewable sources by 2050, this means at least 90% of our electricity being generated from renewables.
This figure of 90% electricity generation from renewable energy sources will surely be reached long before 2050, because we have already adopted a directive that sets a target of 35% for 2020.
If we can achieve 35% green electricity by 2020 from today's starting point of 15%, we shall be able to reach 60% or more as early as 2030.
Thirdly, there is gas to tide us over.
How is that supposed to happen?
We invest billions in gas pipelines now, and then gas consumption in Europe is meant to be reduced.
That is what you write in your document, Mr Piebalgs, and it can also be read between the lines in Mrs Laperrouze's report.
So we have efficiency, renewables and gas, and then you want to invest EUR 1.3 billion in carbon capture and storage (CCS).
Where is there room in all of this for blind loyalty to nuclear power?
I have to say, Commissioner, that you cannot even get your sums right.
If we go for efficiency and renewables and pursue even a half-decent gas policy and, if we really have to, invest a little more in CCS, we shall have no need of nuclear energy, and we do not need to run that risk.
Just look at the facts!
As far as the Economic Recovery Plan is concerned, I must say that I am really annoyed with the Commission.
Not a penny for energy efficiency!
Not a penny for town-twinning!
On 10 February, Commissioner, representatives of 300 local authorities in Europe will be gathering in Brussels at your invitation.
What are we going to tell them: that Mr Barroso's cabinet cut EUR 500 million from the town-twinning budget between Monday and Wednesday of last week?
I find that so contradictory and so utterly wrong.
The fact is that we need towns and cities as partners in a new energy policy.
Not a penny for solar energy, and not a penny for biomass!
In other words, we are devising an Economic Recovery Plan in which we give three and a half billion to the oligarchy of energy giants and not a single euro to the partners whose help we need to enlist for the change to green energy.
