on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is already a year since this Parliament said very clearly and plainly what progress it considered necessary in order to be able to agree to the trade agreement between the EC and Turkmenistan.
They were demands that are relatively easy to satisfy: free and unimpeded access for the International Red Cross, the release of political prisoners and conscientious objectors, the abolition of all state travel restrictions, easier access and working conditions for NGOs and UN agencies and comprehensive reform of the education system.
I freely admit that the government under President Berdymukhamedov has made progress.
That is uncontested.
However, in my opinion, it is in no way sufficient for us to approve this agreement now.
Both you, Mr President-in-Office, and you, Commissioner, have missed a huge opportunity.
I do not necessary share their views, but as the social democrat Members said, we - Parliament - want a guarantee from you that, if Parliament demands that this Interim Agreement be withdrawn, you will accede to our request.
Mr Vondra said absolutely nothing about this and you, Commissioner, have explained to us that it states in the contract that this can be done.
The fact that it states that it can be done is not the point; the point is that you are prepared, if Parliament so demands, to accede to that request.
That is the point.
I ask all my honourable friends, if we want to take ourselves seriously, not to agree tomorrow, unless the Commission agrees in writing and reads out here that this demand will be met.
This was a package deal that was ultimately demanded, but you have said nothing about it.
I must say here that I get the feeling that you are not taking us seriously.
At the very least a position statement should have been made on this.
I therefore say to you that, under these circumstances, agreement on this Interim Agreement is not possible.
I hope that we shall together unanimously document this tomorrow.
