Mr President, the reports by Mr von Wogau and Mr Vatanen are explicit and clear and push forward still further the militarisation of the European Union.
The reports require the de facto transformation of the EU into a military power.
Mr von Wogau's report on the European Security Strategy requires an 'integrated European Armed Force'.
We do not share the view that this is the way forward.
What is more, the report advocates, inter alia, an EU Operational Headquarters and a common market in defence equipment.
The von Wogau report even lends its retrospective support to the dreadfully overpriced Eurofighter programme.
The report states that the Treaty of Lisbon, which 'will introduce major innovations in the field of the ESDP,' is of key importance.
This is a key reason behind our opposition to the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Vatanen report calls for permanent structures of cooperation between the EU and NATO.
We believe this is wrong.
Each new EU military mission is problematic.
NATO is not an alliance for peace - it is a prosecutor of wars, in Yugoslavia and now in Afghanistan.
What wars will be next?
NATO stands for the politics of war.
The report labels NATO as 'the core of European security'.
No!
NATO stands for insecurity!
A mixing together of NATO and the EU would be highly problematic, especially with regard to the two strategies.
We in the Confederal Group of the European United Left/Nordic Green Left stand for a civilian European Union and oppose NATO.
What is needed is the disbandment of NATO.
NATO wants to hold celebrations of its 60-year existence in Strasbourg, Baden-Baden and Kehl.
I issue the call from here at the European Parliament today for protests against this NATO summit!
Sixty years of NATO is sixty years too many.
As a group, we have submitted minority reports in response to the reports of Messrs von Wogau and Vatanen, and my colleagues will elaborate on the specific problems in relation to Russia.
As before, we reject the missile defence system and we reject wordings in this report that make reference to Cyprus.
We will therefore be voting against these two reports.
