on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Animal Testing Directive is based on the 3Rs principle.
Our objective is the replacement, reduction and refinement of animal testing.
In order to achieve this, we need to develop and promote alternative methods.
Thirdly, we must find a compromise between animal welfare and research, while placing the emphasis on human health.
Commissioner, you have also emphasised that we need to have the same standards in all Member States.
The current legislative proposal is based on the Community Action Plan on the Protection and Welfare of Animals and on the animal health strategy.
We want to ensure a high level of protection and high standards in the European Union and throughout the world.
However, the complete abolition of animal testing without other methods being available as an adequate replacement would make the majority of the research based on animal experimentation in the European Union almost impossible.
Research projects would move abroad, we would lose the huge amount of knowledge that we currently have and we would make ourselves completely dependent on other countries.
Therefore, it is important to find a compromise and the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has presented a good compromise.
Admittedly it is not an easy balancing act, but for people who are ill it may be a matter of survival.
The result of the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development on 31 March meets these requirements.
We must support this compromise which was accepted by 72% of the committee.
Therefore, I call on all Members of this House to reject all the more far-reaching amendments that have been submitted and to vote in favour of the amendments from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats and the Socialist Group in the European Parliament.
My warm thanks go not only to the rapporteur, but also to many of my fellow Members throughout Parliament.
