Vice-President of the Commission. - Honourable Members, the controversy in this debate does not relate to energy efficiency.
I think everyone has agreed that the Commission's proposal will lead to a large step forwards in increasing energy efficiency, energy saving and reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
That is what this proposal is about.
It is a proposal relating to our climate and energy policy.
I am somewhat amazed by the sweeping criticism that I have just heard.
I think I have made it very clear in what I have said here today that the integrated product policy that the Commission is conducting sees energy efficiency and conserving resources as inextricably linked.
In that regard, resource conservation does play an absolutely crucial role in the proposal that is on the table, of course it does.
This fact appears to have been overlooked.
May I also point out that, in terms of implementation measures, Annex 1 to the directive already covers all environmentally relevant properties for the entire life cycle of a product - thus including resource efficiency rather than merely energy efficiency - and that the Commission takes such factors into account when it lays down, with the aid of a specifically developed methodology, which eco-design parameters are to be regulated in the implementing measures for the eco-design of energy-using products.
In terms of specific implementation measures, the issue of resource efficiency is absolutely key.
Let me say something quite general about policy on this issue, however.
I think that this new product policy, which will have an enormous impact on consumer behaviour, on industrial production across the scale and on our whole economic culture, cannot be completed in one fell swoop but needs to be achieved on an incremental basis.
In addition, it is always sensible to only lay down statutory rules once there is at least a minimum of experience and that is not something that we have enough of at present when it comes to resource efficiency for standard consumer products.
We have, however, set out very clearly the direction we are moving in and I am fairly sure that, next time we come to deal with this directive, the focus will no longer be on energy efficiency but rather on resource conservation.
I would be very grateful to you all if, in the current situation, we could do what is sensibly achievable at this time and together realise what is really an important and lasting contribution to minimising energy consumption and thus to achieving our goal of making Europe the world leader in energy efficiency and reducing CO2 output.
Commission statement
Csibi report
The Commission declares that adoption of the proposed extension of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council establishing a framework for the setting of eco-design requirements for energy-related products will not affect the implementation of the work programme currently established.
Moreover, the Commission will take due account of the experience gained under the Directive when establishing the work programme and proposing new implementing measures under the recast Directive.
In line with Article 15(2)(c) of the Directive and the principles of better regulation, the Commission will in particular strive to ensure that overall consistency in the EU legislation on products is maintained.
In addition, the Commission will, when assessing the appropriateness of extending the scope of the Directive to non-energy-related products according to Article 21, consider the need for adapting the methodology for identifying and addressing significant environmental parameters for such products.
