on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, protecting human health is also the primary objective when it comes to cosmetic products.
We are making history with this vote.
This is the first time that specific regulations have been drawn up for the use of nanomaterials in cosmetic products, and we are breaking new ground.
I am, of course, particularly pleased to be able to say that it was an initiative of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance that led to this groundbreaking event.
We Greens were the driving force, we placed it on the agenda, and I would like to wholeheartedly thank the rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, for her clear and unwavering support.
I am also pleased to be able to praise the Commission for changing its mind.
Until now, it had continually stressed that the existing legislation was sufficient to guarantee the safety of nanomaterials.
Now, it has clearly stated that we do indeed need specific regulations.
This does not apply only to the Cosmetics Regulation, but also to the regulation which we have yet to discuss this week on new foodstuffs, as nano-technology has, until now, been a kind of black hole.
It was brought onto the market without sufficient explanation of the risks.
This is, therefore, a good day for health and consumer protection, even though I find it regrettable that the definition of nanomaterials has not been made sufficiently comprehensive, but has merely been restricted to insoluble and bio-persistent materials.
However, it is nevertheless important and, for us, vital that nano-specific regulations have been adopted.
I also hope - and would already like to ask for your support in this matter now - that a regulation on new foodstuffs also proves successful this week, as that case does not have such broad support from the Commission.
We need consistency - and not just concerning the matter of alcohol - when it comes to both cosmetics and foodstuffs.
The same generally also applies in the field of nanotechnology.
There, too, we need consistency between cosmetics and foodstuffs.
I also sincerely hope that we will finally have an open debate on the purpose and uses of nanotechnology.
I am also pleased that we have not watered down the ban on CMR substances, agreed in 2008, which was proposed by the Greens.
