on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, Prime Minister Reinfeldt, ladies and gentlemen, the Swedish Presidency has presented an ambitious work programme which includes a proposal for more transparency.
Transparency is needed in particular when combating the crisis we are currently experiencing.
Many people believe that the crisis has been caused far away in the US and by some bankers who are said to be greedy.
The heads of government in the EU Member States seem not to have had anything to do with the crisis.
They are innocent parties.
Those who bask in innocence do nothing to combat the crisis.
I believe that transparency should also include talking about the failures of policy that contributed to the crisis and also of course about the bankers.
Transparency is in vogue in casino capitalism.
We are keen to see what happens with the Baltic Sea Strategy and I would be behind the President-in-Office of the Council if he were to focus on dialogue with Russia.
We would also like the European Union to support the pledges of President Obama and President Medvedev with regard to the dismantling of nuclear weapons.
The European Union ought to take advantage of this new opportunity for disarmament.
The Swedish Presidency wants to further harmonise asylum law and make the European Union more attractive to migrant workers.
Asylum policy is to be closely linked to development policy.
This is a good thing in our view, but at the rigorously guarded external borders of the European Union, particularly in the Mediterranean, thousands of people die every year when seeking sanctuary from persecution, poverty, natural disasters and wars.
Despite costly border control, monitoring and data acquisition systems to prevent illegal migration, the Group of the United European Left/Nordic Green Left calls for the humane treatment of refugees and migrants and a change in economic and trade policy to effectively combat the things that cause people to become refugees in the first place.
The Swedish Presidency is focussing on more inclusive labour markets to create full employment and therefore wants to initiate labour market reforms and gender equality measures.
We too are in favour of a strategy for good work practices which will support wage increases and introduce a statutory minimum wage across the board in all 27 countries.
We want to see the EU agree on targets for the minimum wage set at a level of at least 60% of the national average wage in order to prevent people falling into poverty despite having gainful employment.
I particularly welcome what you said about Cyprus and I wish you every success in implementing your ambitious climate targets.
