Mr President, Mr Barroso, I fought my election campaign as the leading social democratic candidate in Austria on the basis of strong European regulation of the financial markets, a change in the Posting of Workers Directive, the protection of public services and an assessment of the social impact of legislation.
As none of this was achieved by the previous Commission, of which you were head, I have worked on the assumption that we need a new Commission and a new Commission President.
Now you are saying that you will do everything I have asked for.
How can we suddenly start believing what you say?
My colleague, Stephen Hughes, has already referred to the fact that the first Barroso Commission has failed to deliver much of what you had already promised.
In the next few weeks, you will have the time to prove that you really take this seriously.
In this case, taking it seriously means having the support of the people who want to implement these measures.
It has already been made clear that tomorrow you will receive support from many people who have nothing to do with these substantive objectives.
You will receive a lot of support from those Members of Parliament who have prevented these objectives from being achieved or have rejected these objectives, for example, in the case of the Posting of Workers Directive and the public services measures, and who have been strongly in favour of privatisation.
These Members will support you tomorrow.
You must prove that you can form a new majority in the Commission which really wants to achieve these objectives.
In answer to Mr Lambsdorff, who says that this can only be a German election campaign and that the social democrats are leaving the European path, I would like to say that it is not the social democrats, but you who are entering into an alliance with genuine anti-Europeans and that is the problem.
Many of us would be prepared to support you, if the Commission had a clear position on the social dimension.
We note the promises that you have made today, but we also expect a decision which will indicate that the matters that I have referred to today will be taken seriously in the policy of the future Commission.
