rapporteur. - Madam President, I, too, would like to give my thanks for a lively debate.
I would like to emphasise once again that I am still of the same opinion; this is a milestone for environmental and consumer protection and, most of all, it is a magic moment for Europe.
Europe is now in the fast lane.
Europe is showing that it is the world's trailblazer.
This decision to phase out highly toxic pesticides is unique in the world and the European Union can profit therefore from this.
Now, with regard to the arguments put forward again and again in this debate that the matter of imports has not been clarified: that is incorrect, the matter of imports has indeed been clarified.
With the ban on these highly toxic substances, they will become illegal in Europe.
That means that when we have imports - let us take fruit and vegetables as an example - these imports must, of course, comply with European legislation and, specifically, by means of the Regulation on Maximum Residue Levels.
If substances, such as pesticides, that have been banned in Europe are found in the residue quantity test, then the product is illegal.
This means that bananas coming from Costa Rica and treated with carcinogenic substances that we have put on the index and that are therefore banned are illegal within the European Union.
This is clarified quite clearly in the Regulation on Maximum Residue Levels.
Therefore, there is no reason whatsoever to encourage further dissent, panic and fear!
All I can do is point out, once again, and thankfully the Commissioner has already highlighted this, that while the initial PSD study indicated that 80% of pesticides would disappear from the market, this figure has been considerably reduced in the meantime.
Unfortunately, you did not mention this correction in the PSD study.
Therefore, please stop creating this fear and dissension.
Let us now really celebrate the success we are all here hopefully achieving for the benefit of the citizens of Europe, for the environment and for health protection.
(The President cut off the speaker)
