on behalf of the S&D Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for your report.
The question of security of supply for our citizens is becoming ever more important.
In this context in particular, your portfolio will play an even greater role in future - and it will be important for the European identity, too.
As you quite rightly said, diversification is also necessary.
I absolutely agree with Mr Kasoulides that cooperation with Russia will always be important, as it is an important partner with regard to gas supply.
However, we should not be too dependent on any one country, whichever country that may be, but we should diversify, and Nabucco is a good way of going about this.
My third point concerns the solidarity that is needed in the EU.
You have presented a number of proposals as to how we should increase our solidarity and also how the role of the EU as a mediator in conflicts that affect us, in particular between Russia and Ukraine, can be strengthened.
You also talked about Desertec.
I believe both projects are important, as they differ in terms of their timescales.
We also need to consider - and that would be a task for your successor, whether that is you or someone else - how we in Europe, on the one hand, can be in favour of a number of large projects, such as Nabucco and Desertec, while at the same time advocating the decentralisation of some of our electricity and energy production.
There are currently a number of industrial projects under development - which are also industry-driven - which enable consumers and even households to become more involved with a type of energy production that brings energy security.
This ranges from smart meters on the one hand to actual production by individual households.
In this regard, Europe's approach could be to say 'yes, of course we need an external supply, we need security of supply and large, innovative projects like Desertec, but we must also ensure that the people, the companies and enterprises as well as individual households can have greater control over their energy budgets and energy consumption in terms of price, the economy and the environment'.
