Mr President, Commissioner Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, we can be proud of the fact that we have achieved such high health and hygiene standards in the European Union.
The use of biocides has made a significant contribution to these achievements.
When used as disinfectants and pesticides, they protect us from dangerous diseases, or as the case may be, from their carriers.
Biocides are indispensable.
They have to be harmless to humans and to the environment, and that is why we now need a review of all biocidal agents.
Safety requires time, and the review is now taking longer than initially planned.
We cannot run the risk of losing important products because their registration has not been completed.
That is why I welcome the fact that Parliament, the Council and the Commission have, at the first reading, agreed to a quick extension of the deadlines for the Biocides Directive, until - I think, Commissioner, - 2014.
However, why has this proposal appeared so late?
The danger that substances might fall by the wayside due to expired deadlines, was something we could see coming for a long time, and our discussions in Parliament now have to take place under greater time pressure.
Commissioner, we have been waiting for some time now for a proposal from the Commission on the revision of the Biocides Directive.
Important areas now have to be urgently harmonised and regulated.
Examples include the definition of the approval criteria, the length of the approval and, most importantly, data protection.
Manufacturers need clear regulations and certainty.
Regulations are also needed when it comes to the use and handling of the products.
The testing of an active agent costs several thousand euros, and this investment can only be recovered if the results, at least for a certain period of time, are not accessible to other applicants.
No-one wants us to lose our high hygiene standards.
We must keep them in order to meet new challenges.
I hope, that the Commission will present a clear and well-founded report that meets all of these requirements and I hope that it does so as soon as possible.
