Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of last year there were some remarkable headlines proclaiming 'the world is rearming', 'trade in weapons is booming', 'defence equipment industry - expensive through lack of competition' and other cases of corruption in Germany as well as in other countries of the European Union.
We Social Democrats are absolutely clear in our opposition to this kind of arms race, this increase in weaponry, and also the laissez-faire attitude towards corruption.
We are in agreement with our national colleagues on this issue.
The aims of this legislative package, with these two directives on transfer and procurement that we are discussing here today, will ensure that it is not just a matter of competitiveness, but also of putting a stop to the wasting of taxpayers' money on the production of defence equipment and of preventing corruption.
These are good enough reasons alone for the Social Democrats to accept the result.
There will be a European legal framework for awarding contracts for goods and services in the area of defence and security, there will be more cooperation between the Member States, in other words no unnecessary overlaps and no deceiving of Member States by the arms companies, and there will be more competition overall and fewer exceptions under Article 296.
For us Members - for all groups, I believe - it was important for us to have introduced the Remedies Directive, in other words the directive prepared by Mr Fruteau.
For the Council, it was not at all so clear cut.
For us it was important for there to be sanctions in the event of corruption, even down to exclusion from contracts.
I think that is something new for this industry, which has been spoilt up to now.
However, it was also important to us that the results be viable for all 27 Member States.
Even if only six or seven Member States have their own production and a few less get involved in trade, it is important to have 27 States behind us.
We have succeeded in that.
I am not sure whether everything will work the way we imagine it will and therefore we have incorporated the fact that Parliament wishes to continue to have a certain amount of control.
We want to be informed, not just automatically by the Commission, but we want to be informed of the results and about the transposition of this package of directives.
In future, when we will have an even stronger European internal market and will gain European powers, as Mr Sarkozy has of course planned, then the European Parliament as an elected institution in Europe must be involved in genuine control, a control that we have in the national parliaments, but do not yet have in the European Parliament.
This, however, is a task for the future.
In Germany, for example, we have got our fingers burnt with the production of defence equipment and increased prices.
We have the Eurofighter - an excessively expensive, if not the most expensive, project - and I am sure that every Member State has similar experiences.
Finally, I do not wish to express my thanks.
The cooperation was quite constructive and the results are, above all, significant.
However, I would like to say quite openly that the parliamentary procedure was intolerable.
Reaching compromises with the Council and the Commission at first reading simply should not be the work of this House.
For this reason, this procedure must only be an absolute exception in future.
It was not, in fact, necessary for this legislative package.
We should stick to our guns and, immediately after the vote, do away with this type of procedure for non-parliamentary work.
