on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would also like to join the previous speakers in congratulating you on behalf of my group.
We are also very happy about your election.
I think that it is a slight understatement, Mr President, when you say that it is an honour for you to take up the position to which we have elected you today.
It is, on the contrary, an honour for us - at least from the point of view of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - to have you as President.
Everything you have done in your political career has helped you to achieve your current position, and we are all putting our trust in you.
I am not sure if it will be possible in two and a half years to overcome the division that still exists between East and West, but I believe that, with you at the head of this House, we can strengthen bridges between East and West.
I personally would like it to be clear to the Members from Western Europe that Poland is in the middle of the continent, that you come from a country at the heart of the continent and that the work to forge links with the East must now be carried out much more intensively than it has been in the past.
You are in the best position to do this.
I was very pleased to hear you say that we need to get closer to our citizens.
We in the Group of the Greens will always support you in this.
Strengthening Europe from within is important, but it is also important to think about Europe on a larger scale.
Allow me to express yet another personal wish.
As I got to know you particularly well on the streets and in the squares of Kiev during the Orange Revolution - and you were a very courageous politician even then - let us not forget Ukraine in our consideration of the countries to the east of the EU.
The situation there also needs to improve.
Something I would like to do during the European Football Championships - which are not long away now and which will be hosted in Poland and Ukraine - is to watch one or two matches with you.
I wish you every success in your new role!
(Applause)
