Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in this situation, where, after a struggle that has gone on for months, the way is finally open to a solution in which, of the in excess of 50 000 directly-affected jobs, probably - at least according to what the new investors are telling us - around 40 000 can be saved, not counting the many jobs amongst suppliers and in dependent local businesses, it is now time to address the workforce of General Motors in Europe.
It was their dispute, they - Klaus Franz as the Chairman of the Full Works Council and all the others - became the face of Opel Europe, from a new technology group that has earned its opportunity, and in such a situation, our policy must help.
What is it that we are discussing?
We are discussing how General Motors in the US staggered on for months.
It came within a whisker - and we know this for certain, ladies and gentlemen - of failing.
What, then, could have been more reasonable than to have seized the initiative, moved forwards and said, 'OK then.
We have to jump in here and give people a chance.
We must give not just the production sites, but also the future technologies, a chance so that Europe can remain a good place to produce cars.'
I can fully identify with the outlook that Commissioner Špidla set out for the European car industry.
Let us make it real!
Let us create an industrial policy framework with world-leading environmental standards so that employees and car makers in Europe can develop within them right here.
We managed it before with coal and steel.
Why should we not also now succeed in doing it for the industry of mobility and the future?
Grab the ball!
The Commission has a lot of room to act here, and it can launch a lot of initiatives.
Commissioner Kroes, according to my information, of the 4.5 billion that form part of the deal that has to be reached, you have already approved 1.5 billion so that the wheels keep turning.
Naturally, you must check the law and the legislation - what is the alternative?
Of course, all necessary steps must be taken to bring about a fair distribution of burdens in the future negotiations.
I implore you, however, to conduct your checks quickly, to consistently come to a conclusion but, given what is at stake, it is absolutely vital that this opportunity not be destroyed.
It must not fail on trivialities.
Instead, we must also note the significance of the situation and we must achieve a European solution, in the public interest, that benefits everyone.
