Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, the revision of the legislation on residue limits of pharmacologically active substances in foodstuffs of animal origin is an important initiative for the European Commission.
Its aim is to protect consumers against residues of medicinal products in foodstuffs whilst also improving the availability of veterinary medicinal products in the Community.
It is also an important component of the Commission's legislative simplification programme.
On 21 October of last year, the Council and Parliament concluded an agreement that is reflected in the present common position.
Therefore, we now have a common position of not only the Council and Parliament but also the Commission.
I am delighted that the Commission was able to incorporate the amendments from both the European Parliament and the Council, as they retain both the spirit and the substance of the original Commission proposal.
Thus, the Commission expressed its full support for the common position in its communication to the European Parliament of 8 January of this year.
The adoption of the common position will now make it possible to bring this dossier to a successful conclusion before the end of this parliamentary term.
Concluding it on the basis of the present common position will enable those involved with food controls and veterinary medicinal products on a daily basis to do a better job in the interests of animal health and consumer protection in the Community.
These people have been waiting for the revision of the legislation on residue limits very impatiently for a very long time, and I think they really have waited long enough now, and can all be pleased that a solution has now been found.
I am very much aware of the particular importance of the availability of veterinary medicinal products.
Therefore, irrespective of the progress that the present Regulation on residue limits of pharmacologically active substances already represents in this regard, the Commission will present an assessment of the problems entailed in the application of the Directive on veterinary medicinal products in 2010 and, where appropriate, will also present new legislative proposals on this.
I should like to take this opportunity to express my special thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Doyle, whose truly tireless efforts have enabled us to reach agreement on this important matter.
Sincere thanks once again for your excellent work, Mrs Doyle.
Doyle report
The Commission is aware of concerns expressed by citizens, veterinarians, Member States and the animal health industry as regards the directive laying down the rules for the authorisation of veterinary medicinal products, in particular the importance of addressing existing problems linked to the availability of veterinary medicines and the use of medicinal products in species for which they are not authorised and any disproportionate regulatory burden hampering innovation, whilst ensuring a high level of consumer safety with respect to food of animal origin.
The Commission points out that positive steps are being taken in this direction such as the simplification of the rules on variations of veterinary medicinal products and this review of the legislation on maximum residue limits in food.
In addition, in order to address the objectives of consumer safety and animal health protection, competitiveness of the veterinary industry including SMEs and reduction of administrative burden, the Commission will present in 2010 an assessment of the problems in the application of the veterinary medicinal products directive with a view to making, where appropriate, legal proposals.
