Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes I do not believe what I hear.
Mr Schulz, the initiative on regulation and on transparency rules for hedge funds and private equity comes from the Committee on Legal Affairs.
In 2006, the members of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on the Committee on Legal Affairs began actively asking for rules to be put in place.
The legislative own-initiative report which we commissioned did not come about because the chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who we all know is a member of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament, began a completely unnecessary dispute over authority.
The result of this was that we spent months, if not years, in reaching an agreement and were then finally able to adopt the legislative own-initiative reports on this issue in September of last year, in the form of the Rasmussen and Lehne reports.
The person who spoke out against regulation in this area in the Council was Gordon Brown.
He is obviously not a member of the PPE-DE, but belongs to your group.
In recent years, Mrs Merkel and Mr Rasmussen have always spoken in favour of regulation in these areas in all the debates, both in the European Council and the G8.
The problem lies in the fact that the socialists in the European Union have always been a major obstacle to the inclusion of these non-regulated areas.
Opinions have recently changed and that has resulted in us being in the position in which we now find ourselves.
This is one of the historical facts in this area.
I simply want to say that there is a big difference between the rhetoric which we are hearing now and the reality of recent months and years.
Unfortunately, that is the case.
Finally, I would like to mention a number of areas of common interest.
Today, the atmosphere between the parliamentary groups during the preparation for the resolution on the Lisbon process in the steering group was exceptionally good.
For this reason, we have come to an agreement in almost every area and produced a good resolution.
We should not discuss this until we are blue in the face.
Instead, we should make it clear that this is an area of common interest.
The citizens of Europe expect us to act jointly in this crisis and not to oppose one another.
(Applause)
