Mr President, Commissioner, I agree with you that advertising is important.
Yet advertising comes about not only as a result of professional offensives but also of occurrences in the region from which the foodstuffs originate.
When the world associates us with BSE, when we have turned our heraldic animal mad, or when, as now, countries are issuing product recalls because of the dioxin problem - which, of course, is also going around the world - and when millions of slaughtered sick cattle are shown on television news around the world, this is also a kind of advertising: negative advertising.
We must be careful to avoid contradiction here.
On the one hand, there is our talk of good products but, on the other, there are the negative reports - but we are working on this, as we have just seen with the debate and what we have concluded.
If we wish to advertise externally - yes, that is right, we have good reason to do so, as we have good products - I do not want it to be generalised advertising, but advertising showing European diversity.
As you know, we have the situation in Germany where the Federal Constitutional Court has ruled against a kind of compulsory advertising with a compulsory levy.
It pointed out that advertising that does not differentiate between the individual qualities does not increase sales, and that instead, it is important that the individual producers be able to advertise for their specific products.
In addition, it is increasingly important - not only within Europe but also externally - to describe not only the quality of the end product but also the quality of the process.
What is the situation with regard to animal protection, to the environment, to the ingredients, to the structure of the farming, to fair trade?
These are all criteria that do not necessarily affect the quality of the end product, but are becoming increasingly important to consumers.
We must incorporate this into our advertising too, therefore, and must see that Europe's reputation in the world is further enhanced as a result.
