rapporteur. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, before I come to my report, I would like to say once more that we have not conducted ourselves correctly with our decision to debate our own-initiative reports.
When I see how the debates proceed - without dialogue, without controversy, without conflicts - I do not feel this to be a proper parliamentary debate and I hope we will put that right quickly after the European elections.
Nevertheless, I would like to express my thanks to fellow Members who are not present.
We have worked very well together on the production of the report.
I would also like to thank the Commission and the committee secretariat.
We have made many new joint discoveries during the debate in committee.
The Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection has consciously put the debate on implementation relatively early on the agenda because the deadline for implementation by Member States was the middle to the end of 2007, which to date is not much time for a directive involving an enormous and significant element of harmonisation.
Nevertheless, some Member States have not undertaken transposal.
Certainly, this has to do with the complicated procedure, but it is interesting that three Member States who have not managed it are some of the founding Member States.
Therefore, we cannot assume that they are lacking in knowledge of European law.
Three Member States have not yet transposed the directive, four have done so deficiently and inadequately and three Member States have received communications from the Commission that could potentially lead to proceedings at the European Court of Justice.
There are a large number of cases of deficient transposal.
We established during our hearing that two countries have transposed the directive with a great deal of commitment and creativity, namely the United Kingdom and Austria.
It is possible, then.
The benefits of the internal market should be in the interest of the Member States.
The aim of this directive should be to clarify consumer rights and to simplify cross-border trade, to introduce reliable and fair regulations and, of course, to strengthen legal certainty.
A very important point for us, as parliamentarians, was the protection of citizens and consumers from fraudulent practices.
This applies not only to consumers but also to small enterprises and tradespeople.
Our aim, Commissioner, should perhaps be to put these two directives together in the medium term because very many small businesses are confronted by the same irritations in the internal market as consumers.
We know of many examples, such as annoying advertising and misleading and aggressive business practices.
We all know the address book fraud that is a widespread problem throughout Europe.
We know about cheating on the lottery and much more besides.
I would also like to thank the Commission for rigorously introducing the new sweep and search system in airlines and ring-tone advertising.
We hope that it will continue to work on this.
We expect that it will implement stronger networking with national offices and ensure that black lists are not undermined and sanctions are actually a deterrent - a quite significant point for us as parliamentarians.
I would like to say, in closing, that successful transposal requires cooperation between the Member States and between national and European parliamentarians and, entirely in line with the Treaty of Lisbon, which has been mentioned here, I would also like to argue in favour of national parliamentarians exercising more control over their national governments.
These two Acts would be a good start.
