rapporteur. - Madam President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement represents a milestone, a milestone for European health protection and consumer protection but also for the environment and the economy.
First of all, sincere thanks to the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent collaboration.
Many thanks also to the staff involved and to the Commission, to you, shadow rapporteur and Mr Dimas, and also the French Presidency of the Council, but also thanks to fellow members who were not intimidated by the completely exaggerated figures from industry.
We have adopted 200 amendments at first reading in the European Parliament and attempted to decisively improve the common position with this agreement.
We will end this unscientific, never-ending game of numbers, this hocus-pocus surrounding limit-setting, with the clear cut-off criteria.
Nobody can quantify the risk.
Therefore, safety can only be achieved with an outright ban.
Pesticides and other substances that are carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic for reproduction have no business, no business at all in foodstuffs.
We will ensure successful environmental protection with the cut-off for persistent, bioaccumulative toxic (PBT) substances.
I am particularly pleased that we have succeeded in implementing and anchoring initial clear criteria for endocrinal substances, and I have confidence in the Commission's responsibility to come up with more criteria in the next four years.
However, I am also particularly pleased that the European Parliament has succeeded in anchoring bee protection as a licensing criterion for the first time.
Leading scientists in France and Germany have estimated the economic value of pollinators at EUR 150 billion per annum and the damage at up to EUR 310 billion if we lost bees as pollinators.
Therefore, I ask you quite particularly to reject, tomorrow, any amendments that have been submitted.
They would dilute this compromise.
This is a compromise to which the Council has already given its approval.
It used to be common practice not to attempt to attack a joint compromise again.
However, I am pleased that we have jointly achieved an improvement for immunotoxic and neurotoxic substances because, in a Europe that purports to be a knowledge-based society, we cannot afford to allow the development of a child's brain to be impaired primarily through neurotoxic substances in the long term.
We can say quite clearly yes to harmonisation, however, without restricting the laws of the Member States and we will allow them flexibility with regard to procedures in the matter of licensing.
The triple legal basis also shows the high value we place on health and we have formulated exemptions from the ban with many restrictions, linked to a substitution plan, for example, so that the exception does not become the rule but vice versa.
I am also pleased that we have succeeded in including animal protection in this regulation and that we were able to establish more transparency, although I would have expected more courage from the Commission.
I hope that we will have more access to the application protocols and be able to introduce an electronic field pass.
It is not only a milestone for environmental and consumer protection in Europe, I think it is also a magic moment for Europe.
It is a magic moment for Europe because this decision to phase out highly toxic pesticides is unprecedented and it is unique worldwide, and we can thus put the European Union in the fast lane for ground-breaking health protection and Europe will be the trailblazer worldwide.
This regulation will also create added value for citizens who know that the European Union is primarily on the side of consumers and health and has not bowed down to industry.
Furthermore, it is also a win-win situation for the industry, which will receive innovation incentives to produce better and safe products in the future.
