Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Solana, in this debate we are not simply discussing a package of sixteen oral questions to the Council and the Commission, eight resolutions and two reports under the codecision procedure, but also 79 developing countries, with which the EU is renewing its trade relations and mutual cooperation.
Trade and cooperation are important tools in the fight against poverty, as well as for building more economically and socially stable national economies.
Above all, this process involves providing support for the creation of infrastructure, for healthcare, food sovereignty, a functioning social system, education and cultural exchange.
In the past, our trade relations with the ACP countries were based on a system of non-reciprocal trade preferences, which allowed most of the products made in the ACP States duty free access to the common market.
In 2000, it was agreed that a new partnership agreement would be drawn up by the end of 2007.
Under this new agreement, unilateral trade preferences were to be replaced by WTO-compatible agreements, which aimed to reduce and, ultimately, eliminate poverty, as well as fostering sustainable development, regional integration, economic cooperation and good governance, helping ACP countries to develop their economic potential and gradually integrating them into the global economy.
In addition to this, the production capacity of these countries was to be expanded, and measures were to be taken in order to facilitate private enterprise and investment.
The Economic Agreements before us, especially the so-called Interim EPA or Goods-only-Agreement, are primarily trade agreements, as 90% or more of what they address are issues related to market access and other areas of trade.
The aim is the step-by-step liberalisation of trade between the EU and the partner regions or individual states.
What kind of problems have come to our attention during the course of the negotiations?
First of all, it seems rather questionable as to whether the timeframe was sufficient.
Of course, the Commission is in a good position.
It was able to lead the negotiations, call a vote and involve the Member States.
However, imagine that you had been one of the negotiating partners on the other side.
Were the negotiations really always held in parallel, so that the corresponding consultations could be conducted between civil society and Parliament in those countries?
There was a lot of criticism regarding the contents.
First of all, although there were other expert opinions, the Commission understood WTO-compatibility to mean 80% reductions in customs duties within the next 15 years.
Even if the liberalisation commitments are initially asymmetrical, in terms of steps taken towards liberalisation, the outcome will be open markets on both sides, something that the EU can easily afford.
Exports from the ACP countries will only make up a small percentage of its imports.
For the ACP States, the abolition of customs duties results in lost earnings from these duties, and a loss of funding needed for urgent public investment in infrastructure, the social sphere, support for economic development and improvement of administrative capacity.
Moreover, it means the slowing of the growth of the national economy and, therefore, continued dependence on exports from industrialised countries.
This affects foodstuffs just as much as industrial goods and, ultimately, creates a vicious cycle.
The increasing food prices in the ACP countries are the undeniable proof of this effect.
I have often asked the following question: if 50 years of non-reciprocal trade relations have not fostered any even remotely adequate development, how could this be achieved with the mutual opening up of markets?
A further serious problem, which will be exacerbated by the proposed agreement, is the relationship between the partner regions and countries.
Within the East African community, and I am personally responsible for the relevant motion for a resolution, the problem of internal tariffs may be less significant, as a customs union exists, but the trade relations between neighbouring states may become more difficult as a result of the different degrees of liberalisation.
In this case, there are, of course, many problems that are linked to the country of origin regulations.
There are serious fears in relation to the negotiations on comprehensive EPAs.
They reflect certain conflicts within the blocked Doha development round.
Many states do not think that they are in a position to deregulate their service, investment and public procurement markets and open them up to global competition.
This is not even fully manageable, or even desirable, within the European Community itself.
In terms of the lack of control mechanisms for financial markets, we do not need to go into greater detail here.
Serious criticisms were, and are being, expressed concerning the transparency of the negotiations themselves, that is, the extent to which Parliaments and civil society have been involved in the process.
Finally, there are also questions regarding Mode 4.
If goods are to move freely, should people not be allowed to do so, too?
In this context, our Committee has formulated questions which, irrespective of the background they come from, always touch upon the same issues.
What financial, technical and administrative support measures are foreseen within the framework of re-establishing trade and development partnerships?
Will the Commission, during the continuing negotiations, be flexible and take the needs of the partner regions into account, in particular in terms of facilitating export duties for development purposes, protecting fledgling industries, ensuring the freedom of movement of employees and special protection for the public procurement system?
In addition to this, is the Commission ready to rethink its position on protecting intellectual property rights, in terms of ensuring that biological diversity and the transfer of knowledge are preserved, and that medical care at a reasonable price will be guaranteed in poorer countries?
Are the Council and the Commission prepared to provide Parliament and civil society with adequate information concerning participation opportunities?
Finally, is there the readiness to revise the negotiated agreement if it should turn out that certain points have a negative influence on development in the ACP States?
Let me finally make a brief, personal comment.
I have now been chairman of the Committee for International Trade for two and a half years.
As I am not standing for that post again, I would like to take this opportunity to thank my Secretariat, Mr Rodas and especially Mrs Pribaz, very, very much for their great support, and also to thank my colleagues.
The collaboration was successful and I think we have achieved a great deal.
It would be wonderful if we could achieve success with the EPA as well.
I would like to wish all those who remain here all the best for the next parliamentary term.
I am actually very hopeful that trade will begin to play a larger role in this Parliament.
Thank you very much.
