Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to begin by thanking all those who have helped make it possible to reach a satisfactory compromise on the telecom package at the end of the day.
My thanks go firstly to our House: above all to the rapporteurs, my fellow Members Mr Harbour, Mrs del Castillo Vera and Mrs Trautmann, and of course Mrs Pleguezuelos Aguilar as well.
Many thanks, Commissioner, for this excellent collaboration with the Commission as well.
You yourself were often present during the trialogue negotiations.
That is a good sign.
You have contributed really constructively, together with the Czech Presidency, to helping us reach this compromise at the end of the day.
The compromise is a good one and I very much hope that during the vote tomorrow it will meet with broad approval.
As has already been mentioned, the whole telecommunications sector is one of the most efficient sectors of our European economy, and right in the middle of the financial and economic crisis it is particularly important to create general conditions so that this job engine in Europe can start up again and run.
Many jobs are linked to the telecom industry and with the legal framework that we are adopting, we have created the conditions to allow this sector to continue to develop well.
Why is the telecom package so important?
I would like to single out what in my view is the most important point.
We need fast Internet access throughout the whole of Europe, and not just in cities, but also in rural regions.
By we, I mean young people, who communicate worldwide.
By we, I mean our businesses which operate globally and are internationally established, and of course our authorities and administrations.
What does the telecom package achieve in this respect?
It creates the necessary legal framework, so that businesses can invest in the expansion of broadband networks nationwide.
With this package and the investment protection included in it, we have created meaningful incentives, but at the same time have ensured, through the requirements of this regulation, that it is not new markets that are cemented.
The risks in building the new networks have been distributed satisfactorily and fairly.
What else will the telecom package regulate?
Firstly, the effective use of frequency bands - this is also important for the nationwide development of broadband supply.
In the package we advocate a more flexible frequency policy in Europe.
The frequency bands which will be freed up through the switchover to digital television - the so-called digital dividend - should also be available for mobile broadband services, which in particular can close gaps in rural areas.
However, at the same time we have also recognised the special role which broadcasting plays in guaranteeing free opinion forming in our democratic society.
All in all therefore, a good compromise, and I hope it will find broad support tomorrow!
