Mr President, Prime Minister, I hope you will allow me in this connection to speak in particular to Carl Bildt, because I would firstly like to touch on the subject of enlargement, particularly in the Balkans.
You mentioned that this enlargement process will be slower than many people on both sides would have wished.
However, it is very important to give clear signals.
What I expect from the Swedish Presidency is help in particular for the people in south eastern Europe to overcome the problems they are facing there - including the intergovernmental problems - so that they can feel hopeful that the road to Europe will not be blocked off, but that progress can continue to be made, even if it perhaps takes a little longer.
However, the appropriate preparations must naturally be made by these countries.
Secondly, I would like to refer to another subject that you mentioned, namely the issue of restructuring the economy and the linking of economic policy and the environment.
It has already been said that you have our full support in this.
I believe that this is an important task for Europe.
It is true that in this regard we are very much at the forefront, but we still have a lot to do.
At the same time, unemployment is also rising.
The level of unemployment that we are seeing today in Europe has not yet reached its maximum.
It will, unfortunately, get even worse.
It is therefore extremely important to mention the other dimension, the social dimension, as we will only receive broad support for the green restructuring of the economy if people feel that their social needs and requirements are also being taken seriously.
The Nordic countries in particular have a lot of good examples of an active labour market policy.
We are not able, either as the EU or as individual Member States, to create jobs, but we can help people who have lost their jobs to find work again as quickly as possible.
That is what we mean by a social Europe - this active labour market policy that we need in the individual Member States, which the European Union and the Council in particular must give out a clear message about.
The green restructuring of the economy will ultimately result in lower, not higher, unemployment.
This is what we are calling for.
