Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, I should like to offer the rapporteur my most sincere thanks for what is a remarkable report, and also thank her for her excellent, constructive cooperation in a very difficult and sensitive field.
The free movement of persons is one of the most fundamental freedoms of the European internal market.
This freedom lies behind the functioning of the internal market and thus also behind the competitiveness of the European economy.
We must recognise quite clearly that shortcomings in the implementation of Community law in this field are indeed contrary to the fundamental principles constituting the foundation of Europe.
This is an absolutely crucial issue, therefore.
Thus I welcome this report, which supplements the Commission report adopted on 10 December 2008 on the application of Directive 2004/38/EC.
I am pleased that virtually all the results of the EP report tally with those of the Commission report.
I believe we now have a complete picture of the Member States' transposition and application of the Directive on the ground, and I think that the time has now come for real action.
The report emphasises - quite rightly - that responsibility for the proper transposition and application of the Directive lies with the Member States.
It does call on the Commission to take action in certain fields, however.
Allow me to explain, therefore, where the Commission's immediate priorities lie in this connection.
The Commission sets great store by the complete, correct application of the Directive.
This is one of the priorities of the 25th annual report from the Commission on monitoring the application of Community law (2009).
The Commission will continue to make efforts to ensure that the Directive is properly transposed and applied throughout the European Union.
In the coming months, we shall be holding bilateral meetings with Member States to discuss the extremely numerous cases of faulty transposition and application.
If no satisfactory progress can be achieved, the Commission will not hesitate to open infringement proceedings against the Member States concerned immediately.
The Commission intends to offer information and assistance to both Member States and the citizens themselves.
One way in which this is to be done is by issuing guidelines on a series of issues that have proved problematic in relation to the transposition or application of the Directive, for example those of expulsion and tackling abuses.
The guidelines will also deal with issues recognised as problematic in Parliament's report.
The Commission will continue to work together with Member States at the technical level in the experts' groups to define difficulties and clarify interpretation issues in relation to the Directive.
Nevertheless, I must say at this point, Mrs Vălean, that the Commission cannot endorse proposal No 23.
This proposal envisages on-the-spot visits by teams of experts and the introduction of a mutual evaluation system based on these visits.
I must draw your attention to the fact that such peer reviews are usually carried out under the third pillar but not within Community law.
Legal and administrative traditions and the solutions chosen by Member States for the transposition of the Directive mean that the anticipated added value of such reviews would be fairly limited.
After all, as you know, Member States are free to choose the form and methods for the transposition of directives.
However, the Commission will continue to pay particular attention to the dissemination of information on the Directive, will distribute updated, simplified guidance to EU citizens and will use the Internet to disseminate information.
It will also call on and help Member States to inform citizens about their rights by means of awareness-raising campaigns.
Let me say that the Commission is prepared to comply with the vast majority of the proposals contained in Parliament's report.
I should like to thank the European Parliament for its support and suggestions as to how to ensure correct application of this important Directive, one that is about nothing less than the proper connection of one of the four fundamental freedoms in European integration.
