Mr President, Commissioner Wallström, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this debate is very important, because we have heard from various sides of the House that powers are to be given to Europe.
From the point of view of the nation states this is true, but the fact is that nation states are also to be given an opportunity to ensure that the same laws and regulations apply in the remaining 26 Member States.
This European rationalisation project, undertaken to ensure that we do not have completely different legal systems in 27 Member States and that we strive to create a single regulatory framework, is a major step forward and gives not only our Ministers but also our Members of Parliament many more rights and opportunities to promote the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
Even though I often express dissatisfaction in the tiers here in Parliament, and when I now look back and see that the tiers of opponents are empty and that the vast majority of opponents are not taking part in this debate, I wish to make it quite clear that of course we are also critical of the institutions and we want improvements.
It is precisely these improvements that have been the subject of intense debate over the last eight years.
We simply want to ensure that relations between the institutions and the citizens are improved.
Today we cannot just stand there and say that a reform process initiated eight years ago is to be stopped without offering any alternatives - that is the true scandal of this debate.
We urgently need to focus on what the treaty is about.
This treaty gives us new objectives.
We are at last getting a representative and participative democracy with the corresponding Citizens' Initiative.
We are getting new powers in environmental protection and climate change.
As if a single nation state could solve these problems on its own!
For air and water in particular, and in various other areas too, that is just not possible.
Together, we must also take care of freedom, security and full employment.
In view of the crisis, it is particularly important that the European Union be given these powers.
New legal bases are also important, however.
In view of the critical energy situation we need a legal basis for energy policy.
Also in the field of trade policy, when we consider international trade issues, we see how urgently we need a good solution for our European citizens, quite apart from space travel and intellectual property.
And, for our opponents, the exit clause may also be quite important.
I believe that the new supervisory powers and procedures will strengthen this Parliament.
I am in favour of this debate being much more intense, because many of us have still not seen what opportunities this new Europe offers.
