Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, Croatia is the first country for whose accession to the European Union, following experience from the last two enlargements with Romania and Bulgaria, the bar has rightly been set very high, which is why the benchmarks and progress made by Croatia are especially praiseworthy.
The remaining reforms in the judiciary referred to are being tackled.
Full cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal in The Hague, the call for which was reiterated, is on the right path.
With Slovenia, there is the question of bilateral border disputes.
Commissioner, you suddenly referred to 'European border disputes'.
Before 2004, they were not European border disputes; they were border disputes which were not acknowledged.
Nor, at that time, did anyone apply to the UN in order to settle this dispute; now they have done so.
So, if Slovenia stopped obstructing the opening of the necessary negotiation chapter on the grounds of these bilateral border disputes, which were not an obstacle to its accession to the European Union, accession negotiations between Croatia and the EU could be concluded by the end of this year.
The candidate country Macedonia has also made huge progress.
If the elections to be held at the end of March meet international standards, the EU would finally have to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations.
The purely bilateral dispute over names between Macedonia and Greece should not encourage Greece to enter a veto.
All that remains is to hope that the two EU Member States of Greece and Slovenia remember their own situation before their accession to the EU and conclude that they should act fairly and in a European manner towards their neighbouring states.
If, with the help of their neighbours, Croatia and Macedonia achieve the objectives I have described this year, that would send out a positive signal to the rest of the Western Balkan states that the EU is serious about the promise given in Thessaloniki about the accession of all the Western Balkan states, by which the CDU also stands Mrs Beer.
