Mr President, Commissioner, of the proposals being presented to us I am happy to support the draft regulation for establishing a European Asylum Support Office, the European Refugee Fund and the Eurodac Regulation.
However, I should like to take issue with the Reception Conditions Directive and with the Dublin Regulation - and it would seem that I am the only person to do so in the discussions so far.
The Reception Conditions Directive has been created so that refugees - genuine refugees - can be given the best possible assistance in the shortest possible time.
However, it appears to me that what the proposed amendments will introduce is tantamount to an invitation to encourage immigration through asylum, or an invitation to abuse the asylum system, should you wish to interpret it that way.
Why?
All asylum seekers should have fast access to the labour market.
I take the view that it is a matter for the Member States to take this decision.
What is being proposed is that the group of individuals allowed to file an application for asylum be extended to individuals with mental health problems - yes, I know many people with mental health problems, but not all of them have the right to asylum - or to all elderly people, for example.
Indeterminate legal concepts are being used.
Nor do I accept that all asylum seekers should be granted social assistance in the same way as own nationals.
As this is not the case, approximately 95% are simply not granted asylum.
What is being proposed with these amendments is, I believe, the wrong path to follow.
I will therefore be voting against them together with the delegation of the Austrian People's Party.
The Dublin Regulation is the same in certain respects, as it promotes asylum shopping.
This new clause, which is being introduced as a discretionary clause, makes it possible for an asylum seeker to seek out the country in which he submits his application and - provided it is accepted of course - to this extent, leads to asylum shopping.
I also consider it problematic to temporarily suspend transfers.
I understand Malta's situation very well, but I believe that to allow support teams to provide assistance quickly is more helpful than to go down the route that is being proposed here.
We must ensure that we help refugees quickly but prevent the abuse of asylum at all costs.
