on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Mr Reinfeldt, Mr Barroso, my fellow Member Mr Schulz said everything there is to say about the institutional concerns that my group has had for a long time with regard to the forthcoming election of the President of the Commission.
We agree with what he said.
We want the whole of the Commission and all of the top-level staff of the European Union to be elected according to the conditions of the Treaty of Lisbon and we will not give an inch on that.
However, Mr Barroso, I would like to take the opportunity to explain the political reasons behind my group's doubts and its belief that you are not capable from a political point of view of doing what we feel to be necessary in the current situation in Europe.
Take, for example, the frequently mentioned need for the new regulation of financial markets.
We have had G8 summits, G20 summits, extended G8 summits, European summits.
How far have we come?
If we look at the picture today and draw a comparison with the game of Monopoly that we are all familiar with, the banks have been re-established, they have passed 'go' and did not go to jail, they have taken hundreds of millions with public approval and then simply started the game again.
I do not think that people are being doom-mongers when they say that as a result of this the next crash is inevitable.
Mr Barroso, what happened to your forceful intervention?
Where are your genuine results?
We have seen no evidence of them.
(Applause)
As regards climate policy, you know that during our entire European campaign we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have advocated the Green New Deal.
We are absolutely convinced that it is utterly wrong to do what you have repeatedly done in the last five years, Mr Barroso, and that is to play economic strategies off against environmental and climate strategies.
We believe this to be very much rooted in the past and it must stop.
We need to think about economic development in a sustainable way and we must bring climate protection targets into line with environmental targets.
That will benefit the economy and will create hundreds of thousands or even millions of jobs.
Mr Piebalgs has demonstrated once again that this is the case in the energy sector in his study over recent months.
In our experience, Mr Barroso, you are not in a position to set forth this Green New Deal.
In summary, I can only say that, with regard to climate protection, Europeans have been conspicuous on the international stage in recent months as a result of their new-found hesitation - how far do we really want to go with the reduction targets? - and new tight-fistedness, and that, unfortunately, also applies to Sweden.
The establishment of the International Climate Protection Fund for the poorer countries has gone extremely badly.
The fact that it is still a secret that the Swedes want to take money from the development pots, for example, to put into this climate protection pot - that is a zero sum game and, from the point of view of the poorer countries, it is totally unacceptable.
We must quickly put an end to this new tight-fistedness and new hesitancy in the European Union.
(Applause)
Finally, Mr Reinfeldt, I can say something positive.
We are prepared to tussle with you over the new definition of the Lisbon strategy and to work with you on this.
You have said you will do this by the end of the year.
We will help you in this.
We will also support you if you wish to do more with regard to Eastern Europe and Russia, but the focus on a genuine climate policy must not merely be a matter of headlines, it must also be corrected in the small print of the Swedish programme.
(Applause)
