Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why now?
Why Mr Barroso?
These are the two questions which we need to answer.
The question 'Why now?' has already been covered here.
We are in the middle of a financial and economic crisis and the preconditions for strong economic growth and the creation of more jobs will not be established overnight.
We need an effective Commission and we need a common, long-term European strategy.
We cannot start work on this next year; we must begin immediately.
This is why we also need to vote now.
Why Mr Barroso?
I am pleased about the clear declaration by the Commission President, the candidate, on the social market economy, on competition and on the internal market.
As liberals, we also have high expectations and demands.
We expect that a common strategy will be developed jointly with the Member States.
In the medium term, it will not be enough to have a network of regulators monitoring the financial markets.
We need a single European financial supervisory body.
As Guy Verhofstadt has just said, the mid-term review will be decisive for us.
As liberals, we believe that the creation of the Commissioner for Fundamental Rights is a positive move.
We want him to have genuine authority.
For anyone who does not know what is meant by this: data protection and the treatment of asylum seekers at Europe's external borders are both subjects which require more attention.
I would like to say a few words about the comments made here on the political situation.
I very much regret that the majority of social democrats will not be voting in your favour tomorrow.
The social democrats are thus withdrawing from the pro-European alliance which we wanted to establish, particularly in the case of European policy issues.
Mr Schulz, Mr Bisky and Mr Cohn-Bendit are organising a red/red/green blockade of Europe, or at least they are trying to.
The decisive factor is as follows: we cannot defend ourselves against the agreement among the European conservatives, but it is crucial that the liberals and Christian democrats maintain Europe's ability to act.
