Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the road transport package comprises three mutually complementary issues that have an important impact on the freight and passenger transport markets.
It will benefit carriers, drivers and users, particularly in the current economic climate.
At the same time, it will improve safety on our roads, increase transport efficiency and benefit environmental sustainability.
I welcome the choice of the form of a regulation to achieve our ambitious aims.
Bans on cabotage operations result in unladen journeys, which we cannot and do not want to afford, either financially or from an energy or environmental point of view.
On the other hand, unrestricted opening of the freight transport market would lead to distortions as a result of unfair competition - which is why this is being tackled gradually.
Cabotage is permitted provided that it does not become a permanent or continuous activity in a Member State in which the transport operator is not resident.
Unfortunately, this initial step does not yet represent the full opening of domestic road transport markets, but it does leave this possibility open.
Unladen journeys are already being reduced and the environment protected.
With regard to access to the cross-border passenger transport market, the main objective is bureaucracy reduction, in the interests of simple, fast procedures for the authorisation of cross-border regular services.
Documents are to be harmonised and checks simplified.
I very much welcome the introduction of the revised 12-day rule for organised cross-border coach journeys.
This will benefit holidaymakers and bus and coach companies alike, without compromising safety.
It is citizen-focused politics.
In future, authorisation to pursue the occupation of road transport operator will be subject to specific, transparent conditions.
This will increase the status of the profession, ensure the recognition of professional qualifications and help combat dumping practices.
The increase in safety and reliability will be palpable.
