Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this report on oil supply I make a plea - and this was also agreed in committee - for emphasis to be placed on the importance of oil in the European energy supply of the future.
Oil will clearly remain a very important source of primary energy in the EU even in the medium and long term.
We have been seeing a steep rise in demand caused by economic and population growth and also by the desire for individual mobility.
In recent months and years we have been concerning ourselves in varying ways - the report also concentrates on this to a large extent - with the logical question that arises as to how to reduce consumption, how to reduce demand.
How can we lower our consumption or cover it with other energy sources too?
This report seeks to look at the fact that we politicians should be thinking about whether and how the resources, the supply side, can be increased and what can be done in this regard.
Three or four points are mentioned in this regard.
Firstly, massive investment is needed to produce and exploit the available oil: USD 350 billion per annum is the figure always quoted in this connection.
Secondly, it must be pointed out that we need to be much more active in the field of technological innovations.
We also need to think about how to exploit all the available reserves as efficiently as possible.
This brings the focus not only to the issues of technology and the usability of land but also very quickly to foreign-policy considerations, of course.
In this regard, too, in a number of points I cannot list exhaustively here, this report attempts to point out that we must step up our efforts to make unconventional oil resources commercially viable: so as to contribute to diversification, to answer the question as to how transport routes too can be changed, and to raise the question as to what contribution foreign policy can make in terms of strengthening relations and mutual dependency and reliability between the European Union and the oil-producing countries.
This report does not attempt to answer all the oil-related questions but rather seeks to examine a number of issues that have not been central up to now.
It disregards all efficiency and energy saving issues, not because they are unimportant but because they are dealt with elsewhere.
A number of new questions should be raised in this connection - we should even consider, for example, whether sufficient young blood is entering the technology field: young people who are prepared to get involved in this field and to seek new solutions.
That was a brief summary of the substance of this report.
