Vice-President of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, I should like to express my sincere thanks to the European Parliament and particularly to Mrs Ries, the rapporteur for this own-initiative report on electromagnetic fields (EMFs).
This issue - EMFs - is indeed very controversial in the eyes of many European citizens, although many others, us included, also see it as being most important.
The complexity of this issue and the strength of feeling surrounding it mean that it is particularly important to gather very precise facts and to evaluate them carefully, adequately and objectively.
Therefore, the Commission is following this issue continuously and very attentively, as indeed it is required to do in accordance with Council Recommendation 1999/519.
For this reason, the Commission regularly obtains information from the independent scientific committees in order to stay up to date on the possible risks of EMFs.
The recent 'SCENIHR opinion' - the opinion of the competent scientific committee - on this subject was only adopted in January of this year.
I should like to add here that the Commission is following the developments in the Member States and the latest court rulings against mobile phone companies in France with great attention and observing very closely the lowering of exposure limits for base stations in the Brussels Capital Region.
I can assure Parliament that the Commission will attend to the demands made in the resolution with great care.
Let me just examine a few points briefly.
Firstly, there is already a framework at EU level laying down exposure limits and production standards and also a defined level of protection in terms of known effects.
Secondly, the independent scientific studies to date do not justify amending the scientific basis for these exposure limits.
The Commission will also continue to follow scientific progress in this field closely in order to establish whether the exposure limits need to be adjusted.
Thirdly, the Commission is committed to stepping up the dialogue with stakeholders on the potential health effects of EMFs.
In addition, the Commission wishes to cooperate with the main actors to make it possible to react adequately to public concerns.
I should like to emphasise quite clearly our endeavours to also promote research in this field to clarify the remaining uncertainties.
