Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, energy is a vital lifeline for the whole of society, for individuals and for the economy.
It is therefore important for us in Europe to find common solutions, although it is certainly right for the energy mix to remain a national responsibility.
This means that during our joint deliberations we do not need to fight over nuclear energy, low-carbon energy and other types of energy, where my opinions differ from those of Mr Bütikofer, for example.
However, we must try to reach a common position where the external aspects of energy security are concerned.
As regards internal policy, I fully agree with the Commissioner that the issues of renewable energy and energy saving, for example, are more important, as is research into new possibilities.
However, in order to reduce our dependence on external suppliers, we need to diversify.
Desertec and Nabucco are important instruments in this regard.
We also need to negotiate with Russia in connection with issues relating to the partnership and cooperation agreements and energy security now that Russia - wrongly, not rightly - has withdrawn from the energy charter.
This is also an important task for us.
However, we must recognise that we are dealing with countries that are not necessarily reliable and that, unfortunately, we cannot make a distinction between reliable and unreliable countries.
We must therefore counter supplier power with the consumer power of the European Union.
Interconnectivity, the issue of common gas stores - these things are important to ensure that the supply to any individual country cannot be shut off.
If we all help each other, we will be so strong that no one will be able to disconnect us.
That is the crucial point that we need to get across here.
In this regard, we must also make it clear that private investments are necessary, because the situation will be impossible without them.
Much has already been done, but our overarching common security interest must be brought into line with economic interests in order to achieve the best possible solution.
That should not be seen as a contradiction.
I believe that we will then indeed find an appropriate solution.
It means that matters relating to competition law also need to be considered here, and by that I mean that it should not be the power of large suppliers, for example Gazprom or even other companies ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
