on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, I would also like to thank Mr Florenz, in particular for his patience in the negotiations.
The length of the report is evidence of the huge number of issues there were to deal with.
However, I would also like to pose the question of how sustainable the agreement is that is now being signalled at the beginning of this year by this report.
I remember the International Climate Conference in Poznań very well and the very weak role that the Europeans played there, because they were preoccupied with adjusting downwards their ambitious promises and ambitious statements from the international round of negotiations in Bali and, in view of the emerging financial and economic crisis, they were busy relegating climate policy to a lower priority.
I believe that the next year will be decisive as regards the question of whether we really are prepared, as we currently keep promising, to adjust the type of economy to which we in the industrial nations have become accustomed on the basis of our knowledge of climate change.
I believe that the decision as to whether or not we will go down the road of sustainability has not yet been made.
In Poznań, Ban Ki-Moon and Achim Steiner recommended very strongly that all measures taken by the Member States in their economic stimulus plans and their bank rescue packages now be combined with programmes to combat poverty in developing countries and the dreadful consequences of climate change in developing countries, and also with measures for a really ambitious level of climate protection and a new energy policy.
I can see that any legislation at European level relating to this issue will be establishing new ground.
It is by no means certain that Europe will find its way along the road to a modern society of energy efficiency and renewable energies.
Now, as before, it all rests on the decision: do we carry on with the old mix of coal and nuclear energy or do we take ambitious new paths?
I hope that we continue to address this issue as constructively as we have done in the Temporary Committee on Climate Change, although I am not certain that that will happen.
