on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, in my opinion, the first priority should be to link the crisis management of the economic crisis with the global challenge that is the climate crisis.
We would be making a big mistake if, with our economic measures, we were to pursue goals relating to climate protection and energy security as unambitious as those we have laid down in the regulation of CO2 for cars.
We must not repeat the mistake of paying any attention to the inaccurate whisperings of the motor industry.
The mistake made in that regard last winter can now be seen everywhere you look.
The same groups that held us back from implementing the ambitious regulation of CO2 for cars are now stuck with their stockpiles of huge gas-guzzlers which they are no longer able to sell.
It is my belief that we really must aim to make it clear to the carmakers that the future of cars lies in small, efficient and climate-friendly models and that every effort must be made, in connection with incentive measures, to promote such models.
It must also be made clear to what extent innovations such as electric engines are actually covered.
However, this is only possible in conjunction with a coordinated plan involving energy policy.
What I would very much like to highlight in what a previous speaker from the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats said, and it is something I absolutely agree with, is that I am completely convinced that, if we concentrate solely on cars without being aware, at the same time, of how we need to restructure the transport sector and of how the public transport sector will look in ten years' time, we will fall far short of what we need to deliver.
This, too, can lead to securing and creating a large number of jobs.
By hinting that it is not only cars, but also buses and railways, and so on that are produced, Commissioner Verheugen gave an important hint.
So, then, we must think beyond today and plan and promote future-oriented transport systems now.
