Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my group has not signed this resolution and we will only vote in favour of it if the amendments that I have tabled together with the author, Mrs Gomes, on behalf of the Socialist Group in the European Parliament and the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are adopted.
It relates to the dispute over the Mujahedin or the MKO.
This is not a democratic opposition.
I would like to say a few things about it.
The MKO is a degenerate organisation, which is tantamount to a religious sect and which severely oppresses its own members, including within the camp.
Mental and physical pressure is used to force the members to stay in this camp.
Those who refuse have their relationships destroyed, they are forced to divorce and their children are taken away - one of the most brutal means of oppression.
The MKO has totally isolated all MKO members living inside and outside the camp.
All access to the international press or media is prohibited.
All of the interviews conducted by the US took place in the presence of MKO cadres, which meant that the people could not talk about their real problems and concerns.
In the past, MKO members from northern Iraq were handed over to Saddam Hussein's henchmen and were shamefully tortured and killed in camp Abu Greib.
These are just a few examples and explanations for the joint amendments which I urge you to support.
Anyone who rejects these - and I want to say this very clearly - and anyone who adopts the present resolution text unchanged, is voting in favour of allowing the MKO to carry on its policy of oppression in a camp that it controls.
You will then also be partly responsible for what the MKO is currently threatening to do, namely that if the camp is broken up under international supervision, it will call on its members there to incinerate themselves.
That is clearly the opposite of what we want to do here and therefore I urge you to vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the PSE and my group.
