on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the autumn of last year, we gave up all hope that, following the so-called Prud Agreement between the representatives of the three main parties in Bosnia and Herzegovina on joint political steps in numerous political fields, something really would change in political life.
Where are we today?
For the most part they were empty promises which, on closer inspection, evaporated into thin air.
The ethnic division in Bosnia and Herzegovina has deepened.
The lack of trust has increased.
People are being manipulated through irresponsible policies based on purely ethnic criteria, instead of the real problems being tackled.
Everyone in Bosnia and Herzegovina needs the chance of a good education, everyone needs a good judicial system, they need jobs; in short they need the hope of a better future.
The EU has been helping this country for years with a great deal of money and with manpower, but they obviously also need state administration structures which can take up and use these.
I would like to mention three important points.
The question of state ownership must be resolved.
Constitutional reform must be tackled on the basis of a broad political and social consensus.
Only the entire state of Bosnia and Herzegovina can accede to the European Union.
The road map for visa liberalisation must be completed.
The citizens, like their politicians, want to be able to travel freely.
So the politicians should ensure that the green light is given at the end of this year.
Every citizen needs a functioning judicial system, not one that dispenses one sort of justice in one case and another in another.
Frustration is spreading everywhere.
Civil society urgently needs to have a stronger voice in all areas, in order to remind the politicians of their job.
However, it is difficult to come out of cover, because the party political network extends over the entire country.
The few jobs which may be on offer depend on the goodwill of the parties.
We wish the High Representative the best of luck in untying the Gordian knot of the politicians' passivity, laissez-faire and laissez-aller, so that peace and stability can finally return and the people's future becomes rosier than it is at present.
