on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank our rapporteur, Mrs Buitenweg, for all her work.
This matter was particularly safe in her hands.
Parliament has been calling for this directive for years, which does indeed mean that it is of fundamental importance that it be adopted before the end of this parliamentary term.
At the same time, it is vitally important for the Commission to table a proposal for combating sex discrimination as soon as possible, so as to put a stop, finally, to the existing hierarchy of forms of discrimination.
In other respects, I cannot help but be surprised that, in Amendment 96, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats is trying to remove discrimination on the grounds of belief from the scope of the directive.
So, ladies and gentlemen of the PPE-DE Group, do we really need to point out to you that the legal basis on which this proposal for a directive rests - namely Article 13 of the EC Treaty - has been in law since the Amsterdam Treaty entered into force in 1999, 10 years ago?
Do I need to remind you that all of the grounds for discrimination listed in Article 13 are regarded as equal, without distinction?
In addition, ladies and gentlemen of the PPE-DE Group, it cannot have escaped your notice that Article 10 of the EU's Charter of Fundamental Rights treats the religion and beliefs of every single person as equal.
You know, Mr Weber of the CSU, I have certainly heard your arguments, but I really must say that, God knows, they are antediluvian.
Your Amendment 81, rejecting the entire directive, comes with a quite frankly cynical justification attached, namely that the transposition of the directive apparently - and I quote - 'entails excessive bureaucracy'.
You know, Mr Weber, I simply cannot comprehend these attempts to deny people their rights, particularly with this justification, and I hope that your Amendment 81 will be clearly rejected in tomorrow's vote in plenary.
The EU must finally take another step forwards in the fight against discrimination in our society.
