Ladies and gentlemen, we cannot invite all Irish Members to speak.
I have spoken on behalf of us all, and that should be sufficient.
Do you agree that this has been a worthy tribute to those who lost their lives?
Thank you.
I also have a brief statement to make on yesterday's International Women's Day.
To mark the occasion, I wish today to extend a particular welcome to all the female Members of this House and give them an emphatic vote of thanks for their commitment.
I also wish to advocate that we do our utmost to make the principle of gender equality a reality at both European and international level.
A hundred years ago, 15 000 women demonstrated in New York for the recognition of their dignity and rights.
We pay tribute to their legacy today.
There is no doubt that a great deal has been accomplished since then in terms of the recognition and protection of women's rights and the promotion of equal opportunities for men and women in all areas of society.
We must not let up in our endeavours; a great deal more must be done to realise gender equality within the European Union and also to increase the participation of women in work, civil society and politics.
In the opinion of the European Parliament, there is scope for further increasing the present degree of participation by women in decision-making at local, national and European Union level.
Our Member States must find ways of encouraging and supporting women's participation in the decision-making process and in politics at both national and international level.
We are only a few months away from the European elections.
I wish to emphasise today that the participation of women in these elections and balanced gender representation in the European Parliament are particularly important both to the democratic development of the European Union and to our society as a whole.
In conclusion, I should like to remind the House that many wars on this earth hit many women particularly hard, and we are working to prevent the use of harassment and rape of women as weapons of war.
We must defend the dignity of all the people of this earth and must never let up in our commitment.
Thank you for your attention.
(Applause)