draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. - Mr President, to celebrate the occasion, as you see, I have consciously taken the place of Mr Zahradil.
On behalf of the Committee on Foreign Affairs I would like to stress that we regard the future Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative as fully accountable to Parliament for the simple reason that, like all other Commissioners, he needs the confidence of Parliament to take office.
The current practice of regular political dialogue in plenary and in the Committee on Foreign Affairs must be preserved in the dual function exercised by a single person.
As the vast majority of us want a more uniform and hands-on approach by the European Union towards foreign policy, the future incumbent of this office will also have a self-interest in securing the support of the European Parliament for his actions.
The political plans and positions of our executive can also be regularly debated in the Committee on Foreign Affairs in meetings where the future Chairman of the Permanent Representatives Committee provides information on issues that are debated in the PRC.
If so requested, this practice must also apply to the special representatives.
In future, posting decisions in the field of security and defence policy should also be discussed by Parliament to give operations in third countries greater democratic legitimacy.
As regards the European External Action Service, we are of the opinion that the European Parliament must be fully involved in preparatory operations.
We affirm that this Service should be assigned to the Commission for administrative purposes.
We also want to succeed in ensuring that, in future, the head of an EU delegation in a third country appears before the Committee on Foreign Affairs before the posting is finally confirmed.
I think that, if a person does not make a good impression on his or her own Members there should be little chance of that person being posted abroad.
We also ask that the entire foreign policy of the European Union, including the common security and defence policy, be financed in future from the Community budget.
However, for the next treaty after the Treaty of Lisbon, I would also like to see common military expenditure appearing in the budget.
