on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Mahatma Gandhi said 'The greatness of a nation and its moral progress can be judged by the way it treats its animals.'
The welfare of laboratory animals is an important and delicate subject that many people would like to ignore.
However, it is a very sensitive issue, in particular when it comes to research using monkeys and especially great apes.
We know that this is the case from the public reaction.
The Commission was subjected to great pressure.
I would like specifically to thank Commissioner Dimas.
You have done some very good preparatory work and you have introduced important improvements in the welfare of laboratory animals, such as prior authorisation and follow-up checks for all tests.
You have extended the directive to cover all animal species, not just mammals.
The Commission has also effectively resolved the highly controversial issue of tests on non-human primates.
These tests have been restricted to life-threatening illnesses and brain diseases.
Unfortunately, many details of the Commission proposal have been amended by the votes in the committees.
For instance, the standards that I have just referred to have been turned on their heads by the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
To give just one example, following the vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, tests will be automatically authorised if they have not received official authorisation after 60 days.
This is an indefensible situation for us in Europe.
This is why I am calling on my fellow Members to read through what you are voting on tomorrow and not just to follow your voting guidelines.
I am grateful to the rapporteur for being prepared to make some compromises at the last minute.
I am pleased that Mr Parish plans to introduce an oral amendment tomorrow to ensure that the rules on the authorisation period for projects are made clearer.
However, it is a pity that Article 15 has not got through.
Article 15 gives some Member States the option of retaining stricter standards, as is the case, for example, in the Netherlands.
Why do we want to lower the standards which are currently very high in the Netherlands?
Our joint aim must be to find a balance between high levels of animal welfare and intensive research.
I have had enough of the knock-out argument, which is always trotted out, that research will move abroad.
This is not necessarily always true.
Schopenhauer said 'Any stupid boy can crush a beetle, but all the professors in the world cannot create a new beetle.'
We must provide a set of values, because that is our job.
