- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union has proven to be a stroke of luck in the financial and economic crisis and the Czech Presidency has also done a proper job thus far.
The extent and the deeper causes of the global financial and economic crisis prove that global macroeconomic management of the financial markets and the legal frameworks which apply to it need to be revised - at national level, in the EU and worldwide.
Supervisory legislation must be amended and precautions for crisis management improved.
Legislation governing the financial sector should have the effect of blunting rather than exacerbating economic cycles.
However, more regulation does not necessarily mean better regulation; what we need is the right regulation.
The dramatic crisis on the international financial markets and the shifts that it has caused are a challenge to the liberal economic order.
Erroneous decisions by governments in economic and financial policy and inadequate financial supervision by governments and the manifest collapse of a number of banks are reason to call for a reformed financial system, not a new economic system.
The independence of the European Central Bank and its approach to monetary stability are right and have proven their worth.
We also have proof of how important the common market is to prosperity and stability in Europe.
The internal market is playing a central role in shortening and dampening the recession in Europe.
The Member States need to take fast, targeted and temporary measures to support the real economy, because we know that the EU can create prosperity if it continues to develop the internal market, but not if it is distributing subsidies.
The European Union must therefore continue to work consistently to complete the internal market and offer a framework for competition that works.
However, it is also clear that the test has not yet been passed.
The European Union must hold fast to its principles.
There must be no relapse into outmoded thinking, into protectionism, into a policy of compartmentalisation or into a race for subsidies.
The Czech Presidency stands for this and I hope that we can continue to count on that.
