on behalf of the PPE-DE Group. - Mr President, I would like to thank Commissioner Verheugen very much for bringing up this subject and to congratulate him on his success in coordinating the European measures and preventing individual Member States from going it alone during a meeting of ministers on 13 March.
We have requested a debate on the basis of your written report because we believe that the crisis is so serious that the European Parliament must discuss it.
We have drawn up a joint resolution which covers the most important points.
I would like to repeat some of what you have said.
Of course, the rescue of an individual company can only be successful by taking into account the company's own responsibility - and the special circumstances of the General Motors case - together with the intellectual property rights and many other factors.
Overall it is a very large industry.
With a total of 12 million jobs dependent on the car industry, annual investments of EUR 20 billion, an annual turnover of EUR 780 billion and added value of EUR 140 billion, it is a very important industry, which has got into difficulties partly through its own fault - I am thinking here of the overcapacity and the model policies of some manufacturers - but in general terms mainly because of the effects of the international crisis on the financial markets.
Therefore, we welcome the fact that all these collective measures are being taken.
They should help to ensure that the car industry is more sustainable, to stimulate demand so that the industry can emerge from the crisis and to make it easier to provide investment and finance for buyers and for the industry.
In addition, these measures, as you said at the end of your speech, should not bring about new legislative problems which would apply additional pressure to the competitiveness of the European car industry.
On this basis we can adopt the joint resolution.
My group will vote in favour of the amendment from the Socialist Group in the European Parliament on paragraph 5, to refer specifically to the special case of General Motors, so that with a broad majority we can encourage the Commission to offer workers job security and to open up new prospects for the car industry.
