Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of the fifth debate in this parliamentary term on the successes and failures of the Lisbon Strategy, I would like to ask how it can be that we have stated every year that the strategy is a successful one and that its success has been assessed and that we now suddenly wake up in the middle of the most serious crisis of recent times, as if it were a natural disaster.
This should not be the case and a dishonest assessment of the Lisbon Strategy is, I believe, one of the problems which we must resolve.
A year ago in the same debate, the European Parliament urged the Commission to ensure the stability of financial markets because we had identified signs of an impending crisis.
Mr Barroso, nothing was done in response to this request.
We have now been discussing the collapse of the system for months, as Mr Schulz has said, without ensuring that the new regulations are mandatory.
My view of this is slightly different to that of my fellow members.
I believe that many members of the Commission and of the national governments are still convinced that a deregulated market made up of strong players can regulate itself.
If we limit ourselves to injecting funds quickly into the banking system and to giving public guarantees, without establishing a completely new structure for the financial markets, we are sure to fail.
We will not emerge from this crisis and there will be no real recovery.
The discussion on the links between climate policy, sustainability strategies and crisis management is just as inconsistent.
Every year, we hear many comforting assurances on this subject.
However, if you look at the current economic recovery plans at European and national level, you will see that they consist of a lot of words, but that the objectives of sustainability, climate protection and the efficient use of resources are still not being taken seriously.
These economic recovery plans will not equip the European economy to face the future.
They are simply more of the same.
