Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is a dramatic situation, as we know.
The actions of Russia and Ukraine are irresponsible.
It must also be said that the Commission is blameworthy in that we were relatively slow to take action, although it is also true that Commissioner Piebalgs has addressed this issue excellently over the past few days.
The team of experts was a splendid idea, and I think he deserves thanks for the events of recent days.
However, this is also the time to ask why our reactions to such events are always so short-term.
How many times has Russia attracted attention in this regard?
It is certainly not the first time.
We have now seen gas supplies being turned off periodically for several years, and so we must ask ourselves whether we - the European Parliament and the European institutions - have really done enough about the issue of security of supply, or whether we have been perhaps prioritising other issues.
I think that Mr Swoboda was right to ask this question.
We have made a great effort to work out whether and to whom and on what conditions to sell and privatise the networks.
We have spent weeks, even months, addressing the issue of how to respond to the climate issue, and not given sufficient thought to the fact that there is a third very important political project too: that of security of supply.
What have we done to ensure a more varied energy mix in Europe, and to reduce our dependence?
What have we done to ensure that coal power stations also figure in this mix?
With our climate policy, we have actually discredited these coal power stations and thus increased our dependence on gas.
What have we done to increase our support for nuclear power?
The answer is far too little, far too timidly.
What have we done to get other permissible pipelines sorted out?
What have we done in the field of LNG?
What has been done in the field of external energy policy?
The events of the last few days have meant that it is high time we addressed the issue of security of supply in energy policy.
That is clearly the crucial question.
