Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I share much of what the Commission has put forward here on the causes and the prospects for the car industry - overcapacities, the need to change strategy, new technologies.
However, I would like to point out that there are a number of things that we do not share.
Opel will probably not be the last case in the car industry, where there is 30% overcapacity across the globe.
We are not only talking about the approximately 12 million people who directly or indirectly live off this industry but the roughly 30 million people throughout Europe who are involved in this industry's economic output.
In this situation, the Commission shares responsibility for ensuring that the European car industry is able to master this challenge.
The Commission also shares responsibility for ensuring that Opel does not now become the sacrificial pawn of a free-market clean-up of the crisis.
The necessary re-alignment of the management of free market forces in this Union will not automatically balance the anticipated job losses with new jobs.
On the contrary, indeed, those in jobs and European national economies will pay the price.
The general prevention of State aid will lead to the advent not only of distortions of competition but also social distortions.
These will then take a much bigger toll on the coffers of the affected countries than they can afford and, above all, much more than those coffers would be burdened by the aid currently being offered, when you include the dismantlement of social services.
The restructuring of the European car industry needs strong initiatives from the Commission, but also from the relevant national governments.
We therefore propose a European industry council on the future of mobility involving politicians, businesses, trade unions and academics.
It would have to develop possible courses of action for the necessary technical changes and define political measures and the associated funding.
Overcapacities must be converted into new work methodically and with an equal division of burdens.
That applied years ago to the steel industry, and it must now apply to Opel and to the car industry in Europe as a whole.
State aid can and, in my view, must also be linked to achieving an institutionalised employee participation with extended rights of codecision.
All affected employees in Europe need security for their sites, they need new work and new, secure future prospects across Europe.
