rapporteur. - Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, cohesion policy is important for Europe.
It is an expression of solidarity.
However, cohesion policy is not only needed by those in our society who are supposedly weaker.
All our citizens need a policy of solidarity and European integration.
This makes things all the more difficult when no use is made of Structural Funds in the regions, of which we have more than 260 in the European Union.
This is not because no help is needed, but because the obstacles to obtaining the funds are too hard to overcome.
Some of these obstacles are home-made.
Of course, it is an important basic requirement that the rules are observed and that controls are put in place to ensure that the money provided by European taxpayers is used correctly.
However, this must not result in the application forms and the explanations of how the funding can be obtained being so lengthy and incomprehensible that you need a PhD to understand them.
Therefore, I call in my report for specific measures to reduce the amount of bureaucracy at European level, because we are responsible for this.
For example, the system of controls should be simplified, the administrative burden on the projects should be reduced and the size of the projects should be modified.
In addition, the project practices should be simplified, clarified and accelerated and made more result-oriented.
However, I am convinced that something could also be done in this respect at national and regional level.
The second part of my report concerns best practices in cohesion policy.
We must not reinvent the wheel, because this would be neither efficient nor clever.
Therefore, we need to find a system for making good examples of projects available for use by others.
As there are tens of thousands of cohesion policy projects every year, the trick is to identify, select and provide information about exemplary projects in the regions.
In my opinion, the Commission has already made a good start in this area, for example with the RegioStars initiative, but this needs further development.
In some of what I believe are key areas, the report proposes criteria for selecting these projects.
The key areas include research and innovation, creating high-quality jobs, support for SMEs, climate projects, integrated urban development and the development of private-public partnership projects, to name but a few.
For example, the criteria for selecting best-practice projects could be the quality and sustainability of the projects, the driving force for the regions and for the European Union, the effective use of resources and, of course, transferability to other regions.
There are good examples to be found everywhere.
In the appendix to the report I have listed some projects which I have been informed about as a result of the groundwork done in the regions.
They come from all the Member States.
I would like to mention a few of them here: a centre of excellence for environmental technologies in Slovenia, the Burgenland Mobility Centre in Austria, the 'brain hunt' competition in Estonia, the new building for the Fraunhofer Institute for Cell Therapy and Immunology in Germany, the science park in Granada in Spain and the development of the problem district of East Leipzig in Germany.
Finally, as rapporteur and coordinator of my group, I would like to extend my very warm thanks to my colleagues for their cooperation, not only on this report but also over the last five years.
I would also like to thank the Commission, the Committee on Regional Development and all the relevant employees for their cooperation.
I hope that we can continue to work together in this way in future.
(Applause)
