draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs. - Mr President, I speak on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties, Justice and Home Affairs.
I am a bit irritated, as I would also like to know the opinion of the Committee on Development, but Mr Berman used his speaking time to warn us against exerting pressure on the people of Ireland.
This mentality is clearly one of the reasons why we are debating tonight.
I find myself wondering whether this Parliament still has the right to speak with its citizens, to exchange arguments, to defend the results of its 10 year's work on the constitutional process, or whether with this dialogue we will be accused of the exertion of pressure and blackmail.
It is a rum old world.
I would have liked Parliament to have defended this treaty much more vociferously, much more offensively and much more openly to the citizens of the European Union and not to have left everything entirely up to governments, which all too often have a rather ambivalent relationship with the progress embodied in this treaty.
Mr President, many Eurosceptics claim that the democratic progress embodied in this treaty is slight and that, in fact, it is a fig leaf for a dark and more sinister Europe hidden behind it.
I believe that a brief glance at the area of internal security, justice and the police, its communitarisation, Parliament's right of codetermination, the application of the Charter, punishes these assertions and unmasks them as deception, propaganda and ignorance.
For me, this area is still perhaps the most annoying expression of the democratic deficit in the European Union.
I have never been one to consider the separation of powers a historical philosophical principle; rather it is a basic principle of democracy.
In this area, the Treaty of Lisbon has provided a very decisive, forward-looking response.
It is one of the most sensitive areas in the constitution.
In reality, in this area, ministers of police have made decisions on police laws - behind closed doors - without the control of the courts or the European Court of Justice and without the application of a comprehensive code of basic rights and freedoms.
This is changing, however, and it is a huge step forward in the direction of a European democracy.
Moreover, Mr Berman, to discuss it with the citizens, to defend it, is our duty and not the exertion of pressure.
(Applause)
