Madam President, as rapporteur for the directive on data protection in the area of electronic communications, I would firstly like to thank Mr Harbour, who has given a whole new meaning to the concept of enhanced cooperation.
It was not the first procedure of this kind, but in this form it was probably the most fruitful.
I would like to thank Commissioner Reding, who was present at each of the trialogues and personally played a part, something which nowadays cannot be said for all Commissioners.
I believe we were able to show, that, above all, the best consumer protection is effective data protection; that at a time when people surf the Internet and do not know exactly what is going on behind their screens, it is particularly important that they should be enlightened.
We have taken up the Commission's proposal to make the notification of security breaches compulsory, and have improved it.
It is a procedure that will be implemented in stages and has been developed in cooperation with national regulators, telecommunications providers and policy-makers.
I am delighted with the Commission's announcement that by the end of 2011 a horizontal directive will be submitted to this end, because it makes no sense to simply address this in the area of electronic communications.
At the same time we have ensured that it is mandatory to obtain the consent of the user for the storage of programs or applications, including personal data, which are on the hard disk.
In this regard I would also briefly like to mention that we have developed the original proposals very closely with the industry concerned.
For some parts of the industry it did not go far enough or it went too far.
They then caused trouble and confusion in the Council and the Commission, before in the end wanting a return to what had originally been put forward, because they did not like the compromise proposals.
The lesson from history is that, as institutions, we should have faith in the fact that we can cooperate well together, and should not let those who have other interests drive a wedge between us.
To conclude I would once more like to refer to my fellow Member Mrs Trautmann's report.
Some in my Group and others will not agree to a kind of 'three strikes and out' law.
We need judicial control before net access is blocked.
