Mr Deputy Prime Minister and representative of the Presidency of the European Union, Mr Nečas, Commissioner Rehn, honourable rapporteurs and committee chairmen, ladies and gentlemen.
Today we have the pleasure of jointly signing two important packages, the climate and energy package and the package for an integrated maritime policy for the European Union.
This is the high point of the consistent work which we have carried out with the Council and the Commission.
In adopting these two legislative projects, the European Union is proving that it is able to act decisively in order to jointly overcome the challenges in the core sectors of sustainable development, environmental protection and safety at sea.
This public signing will help to emphasise the importance of European legislation to European citizens.
In the climate and energy package, Parliament and the Council have laid the basis for the European Union to achieve its climate targets by 2020 and to continue to play a leading role in the fight against climate change.
The climate package includes important legal frameworks which will help, for example, to improve the emissions trading system or efforts by Member States to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and also to promote renewable energies or carbon storage techniques.
The rapporteurs Mrs Doyle and Mrs Hassi are here with us, or so I assumed; at least I can see Mrs Hassi.
This package will give the European Union the necessary credibility in the run-up to the international conference due to take place in Copenhagen in December and during negotiations on a comprehensive and binding agreement.
As far as maritime transport is concerned, Parliament and the Council reached agreement on eight dossiers during the course of conciliation.
That is the result of intensive work lasting over three years.
This outcome is also proof of the strong pressure exerted by the European Parliament to ensure that disasters at sea, such as the accidents involving the Erika in 1999 and the Prestige in 2002, are prevented in future by improving safety at sea.
Today we can see that many of the proposals by the Temporary Committee on Improving Safety at Sea set up by the European Parliament have become law.
Thanks to these specifications, the inspection and surveying of ships, the supervision of maritime shipping and the insurance of ships owners have been improved, mandatory insurance has been introduced and investigation requirements and liability in the event of an accident have been strengthened.
I am delighted to see that the rapporteur Mrs Doyle has now joined us.
To close, allow me to express my thanks to the Czech Presidency, the Commission, the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety, the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy and the Committee on Transport and Tourism and, above all, their chairmen and rapporteurs, who all worked intensively on these important legislative acts.
My thanks in particular to you, honourable members, for attending the signing today of these important legislative projects.
I am particularly delighted that two group chairmen have honoured us with their presence here at noon today.
Thank you for that.
I should now like to invite the President-in-Office of the Council to take the floor.
