Mr President, in this enlargement debate, we must correct three important mistakes.
Firstly, Turkey is not a European country, but forms part of Asia Minor.
As the President-in-Office of the Council has rightly said, Turkey is a strategically important partner and therefore we need a strategic partnership and not accession to the EU.
Secondly, the problems relating to Macedonia have nothing to do with the fact that the democratic system there is allegedly not working, Commissioner.
I was present at the elections and they were exemplary.
There were difficulties with a tiny minority within the minority.
In fact, the problems concern the dreadful name issue, which is being misused for the purposes of blackmail by both sides.
Thirdly, Croatia has been ready to join the European Union for a long time.
We could have completed the negotiations this year quite easily, as the European Parliament has demanded on several occasions and will probably demand again tomorrow.
The fact that we have not yet reached this point is entirely due to a blockade by Slovenia in the Council.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council and Commissioner, I call on you to find a reasonable solution which will finally bring this blockade to an end.
The border problem is exactly the same as when Slovenia joined.
We cannot allow one country to join despite an unresolved issue and not the other.
Therefore, we need to support the Slovenes and Croats in their search for a sensible solution to the border problem but, at the same time, to open all the chapters in the negotiations.
The two issues have nothing to do with one another and opening the chapters in the negotiations is a requirement for achieving a positive result this year with an excellent and exemplary accession candidate.
As far as the solution to the bilateral question is concerned, where we are offering our help, I would ask you, Commissioner, to work towards an objective arbitration process.
On Monday, your spokeswoman said that this could take place on the basis of international law and jurisprudence.
I would like to ask you whether you feel this wording to be suitable for a compromise to be reached between the two sides.
I would in any case like this wording to....
(The President cut off the speaker)
