rapporteur. - Madam President, Commissioner Vassiliou, Commissioner Dimas, ladies and gentlemen, today we have the result of many discussions and negotiations, which were, at times, conducted with great emotion, and we will have the opportunity to vote on this tomorrow.
We have not made it easy for ourselves.
We have struggled to find the right solutions in our negotiations with the Council and with the Commission.
We have established that science does not always point us in the right direction with clear findings.
Further scientific support will be necessary in order to analyse the effects of this new legislation.
First of all, therefore, sincere thanks to all those who contributed to this positive result with constructive proposals, my fellow members here in Parliament, the European Commission, the French Presidency of the Council - it is a pity that the Czech Presidency of the Council is not here this evening - but thanks also to the staff.
With the current Directive on the Sustainable Use of Plant Protection Products we are taking a giant step towards more commonality in European environmental and consumer protection.
Sustainability as the overall concept for European agriculture will guarantee healthy food and a healthy environment.
For the first time, the handling of plant protection products will be harmonised at European level.
The basic principle 'as much as necessary, as little as possible' assumes comprehensive, sound knowledge.
Plant protection products are, in fact, medicine for plants.
They must be used correctly in order to be effective - the right product and the right dosage at the right time.
This also includes the consideration as to whether chemical plant protection is necessary or whether mechanical measures would be better.
The selection of the best technology and tested application equipment will protect the environment and the user and contribute to the success of the operation through good harvests.
The Member States will establish measures in their national action plans to reduce the use of plant protection products.
Risk reduction is the primary objective.
The use of the general basic principles of integrated plant protection will become mandatory for the entire European Union from 2014.
Compliance with the stipulations of the Water Framework Directive is top priority.
The Member States will establish buffer zones adjacent to bodies of water, which must be adapted to the conditions of the soil properties and geographical circumstances.
The use of plant protection products by local authorities and in protected areas will be minimised or stopped, if necessary.
There are regulations for checking equipment and regular maintenance intervals will be set.
Risk reduction means that professional users must obtain sound and ongoing training in the use of plant protection products.
Private users, who have no specific training and can cause damage in private gardens through incorrect usage, must be informed by well-trained salespersons on the use and risks when purchasing plant protection products.
This directive will mean that previously differing regulations in the individual Member States will be adjusted to a high, common level.
The proposed measures will benefit the environment, consumers and users.
Identical conditions throughout the European Union will guarantee identical safety standards and identical production conditions.
Substances that are proven to be detrimental to health will not be licensed, on that we are in agreement.
However, a ban must be based on scientifically sound findings and not on political dogmas.
Exposure must also be taken into consideration because with pesticides, like many things in life, it is the dosage that creates the poison hazard.
A headache tablet is a blessing, but if you take 20 it becomes dangerous, even life-threatening.
We have reached a good compromise.
It will harmonise the environment and economic policy and I hope that we can emphasise our requirements in a unanimous vote tomorrow.
I will allow myself just one more technical point, which is to say that an error has crept into Article 14 Paragraph 4.
Reference is made to the Internet portal mentioned in Article 4 Paragraph 3; but there is no Paragraph 3 in Article 4.
This should be rectified.
