Mr Papastamkos, you probably know my personal opinion, which is, in fact, even a little bit more radical than your own.
My own, very settled opinion is that micro-businesses that do not operate in the internal market are absolutely no concern of ours - no concern of either European legislators or the Commission.
You will be aware, however, Mr Papastamkos, that you and I are in a minority in this regard.
Every time this House sits - and especially during Question Time - I hear a number of proposals that relate to the business conduct of small and micro-sized businesses.
In other words, Mr Papastamkos, you have a lot of convincing to do.
However, by introducing the special SME test - in other words the test for small and medium-sized enterprises - for impact assessments, the Commission has taken care to ensure that very specific consideration is given to what the impact will be on small, medium and micro-sized enterprises and, where possible, the principle is that micro-businesses are excluded from the rules.
I will mention a topical example in this regard.
The Commission has proposed the exemption of micro-businesses from the European regulations on financial statements.
This measure will save such businesses EUR 7 billion a year in costs.
I am sorry to report to you that the European Parliament's competent committee has rejected the Commission's proposal, and I regret to have to tell you that there is organised opposition to this proposal - I am sure you can imagine who it is that is organising that opposition.
Despite this, the Commission still stands by its proposal.
It is an absolutely key element of our policy for small and medium-sized enterprises and on scaling back the costs of bureaucracy for micro-businesses.
Subject: Tourism under Lisbon
Can the Commission outline what plans it has developed, in terms of preparatory actions and other initiatives, to prepare the ground for the development of the tourism competence under Lisbon (Article 195 TFEU), assuming Lisbon comes into effect?
Can the Commission comment on the possibility of developing synergies between tourism and regional development policies, with specific reference to geographically and economically marginalised regions of the EU?
