Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the Commission warmly for its communication on the experience gained in applying the food hygiene regulations.
It is very important and the content of the communication is very convincing.
I would like to give my support to this communication, which describes what has happened in practice over the last three years.
It is important for us to be aware that the hygiene regulations have undergone a paradigm shift.
We have strengthened the internal market, we have improved food safety and we have increased the responsibility of food producers and suppliers.
This is a significant change and therefore we have, of course, identified a few problems, in particular in relation to the licensing of small and medium-sized enterprises.
Some butchers' shops have ceased trading.
We should once again review the situation, as this is due to the fact that very often, the flexibility built into the regulations is not being made use of and there has been no exchange of information between the local supervisory authorities and the European Food and Veterinary Office, which I feel is a very bad thing.
If the Commission now decides that it does not want to make any changes, I will be forced to object.
I believe that it is necessary, even if these are only cosmetic changes, that we should look in particular at the following issues.
We should be aware that the information within the food supply chain is being interpreted too narrowly and this needs to change.
We should consider whether other methods for inspecting meat would be appropriate.
In particular, we should not continue with the accreditation of trichina laboratories described in Regulation (EC) No 882.
We need reliable planning for the areas which apply regulations.
This is specifically why I am opposed to the intended regulation.
We should be making a brief and concise proposal for changes so that we are not involved in authorising transitional rules until 2013.
