Madam President, Commissioner Olli Rehn has praised this Parliament for its activities in bringing about the climate protection package and, in fact, we aim to continue to be ambitious.
Last night, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety voted 55-1 in favour of adopting a resolution that sets high targets for the negotiations in Copenhagen.
This result shows that the denial of climate change, the ignorance of these matters, is represented by a vanishingly small minority of individuals here in this House whose views really should be disregarded and who have made their views known here on a number of occasions, but who are actually swimming against the tide of opinion of the citizens of all the countries of the European Union.
It makes no difference to the Earth's atmosphere where the CO2 comes from.
That means that we need a global agreement for every country and not - as is already being argued in Bangkok - multiple agreements, with one for the US, one for Europe and one for the developing countries - that would be disastrous.
We need a global pact against climate change and that means that we also need a global pact of solidarity of the rich countries with the poor ones.
This point has already been made many times.
Climate change represents an opportunity for us and also for the developing countries to set in motion low-carbon development with new technologies, together with the modernisation of the infrastructure.
Europe must help this come about.
When it comes to funding, we have endorsed the demand that the EU needs EUR 30 billion by 2020 and that we must develop funding tools that are durable and predictable.
They must not simply be dependent on funds from the budget, but must also have other sources of funding.
I want to stress, once again, that marine transport and aviation must be included and that, of course, the forests and agriculture have their own, significant share.
Development and climate protection are not opposites - rather, they must be brought together into a synthesis in Copenhagen.
