Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, that was a hard slog, involving two rounds in the ring, so to speak, but it was well worth the effort.
The result is something of which Parliament can be proud.
I would also like to give special thanks, on behalf of my colleague Mrs Niebler - who unfortunately cannot be here today, to the rapporteurs, Mrs del Castillo Vera, Mr Harbour and Mrs Trautmann, as well as to all the other people who have helped to pave the way for a compromise.
It was a truly difficult task, sometimes involving a great deal of effort on the part of individuals and political groups, but in the end, a consensus was achieved.
The telecommunications sector is a vital sector in terms of economic development, as it provides an important stimulus for employment.
In 2007 alone, this sector had a turnover of around EUR 300 billion.
This means that the sector will have a new legal framework, which will also have a big impact on economic development in the European Union.
Europe faces significant challenges: investing in high performance broadband networks and expanding them.
The business sector is ready to take action and we also want to open doors.
An important decision has been made.
Last but not least, we want to make the radio spectrum policy more flexible, and need to make use of the digital dividends.
Here, too, an important prerequisite has been met.
And finally, we have had to invest a lot of effort, as, at the beginning, many of us were not aware of the problems and the issue of how to deal with internet freedom and how to strengthen citizens' rights on the internet.
We have now secured the protection of our citizens to a far greater extent than we had imagined at the start of the process, as things have moved forward.
Measures taken in the EU Member States in relation to access or usage of electronic communication network services must not infringe fundamental rights in any way.
Limitations should only be introduced after a fair and independent process.
The person must have a right to a hearing and be able to challenge the decision in the courts.
This is an amendment that could not be foreseen at the beginning.
Everyone contributed to this process, and I hope that everyone will therefore be able to vote in favour of the proposals.
Thank you very much.
