Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Fischer Boel, you gave a very brief response on the subject of the crises and I did not hear you mention any possible solutions to these crises.
The crisis is not only in the dairy sector, that is true; we also have a crisis in the cereals sector, there is further concentration in the vegetables sector, and in the last ten years, we have lost 50% of our pig producers.
This is not only due to the fact that we are experiencing an economic crisis, Commissioner, but also to the fact that the orientation of our agricultural policy has been wrong in recent years.
You would really have to say now that liberalisation has failed and that the world market approach is not the answer for agriculture.
The next few years will be crucial in terms of where our agriculture is heading.
We are therefore thankful that, in Paris, the 22 agricultural ministers have clearly indicated where it should be heading.
There is much that we agree with here.
We need reliable planning in agriculture, and agricultural policy must be sustainable.
That is something that we have also advocated for a long time.
The prices are falling for farmers, but not for consumers.
That indicates that our agricultural policy only really serves the interests of the large concerns.
You quite rightly said, Commissioner, that we need to strengthen the position of farmers in this regard, but you always refuse to give an answer to the question of how we should actually do this.
We will try to provide answers to this.
It will, in fact, be crucial over the next few years.
Farmers must not merely be producers of raw materials.
They need to actively seek market power and, in this, producers need our support.
Constant pressure on prices in the agricultural sector will lead to poor quality produce.
Ever greater industrialisation in the agricultural sector will result in the continued loss of biodiversity, and industrialised agriculture will also increase CO2 and methane emissions.
To talk of climate protection, but still continue along the path of industrialisation cannot be the answer!
Therefore, we, as Parliament, must take our job very seriously over the next few years.
We hope that our cooperation with the new Commission will be constructive.
