Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Schnellhardt, for his question.
This gives us the opportunity to identify positive and less positive experiences of the implementation of the regulation.
The food hygiene regulation specifies the hygiene rules for meat production.
The Commission's consultation shows that good progress has been made and that overall, the application of the regulations is functioning effectively.
The fear that excessively strict regulations would result in small and artisan companies going bankrupt has, in most cases, not become reality as a result of the exceptions for small companies.
However, the consultation also clearly shows that there are problems in applying the rules in many cases.
This is confirmed by the information that I have received from companies and supervisory authorities in the region which I come from.
As a result of the fact that the authorities in the regions have a great deal of leeway in their decision making, they can meet the needs of smaller and artisan butchers' shops in individual cases.
This is definitely a good thing, as it is the only way in which we can ensure that smaller butchers, which offer a wide variety of products, with the accompanying challenges for freshness and quality, are not crushed under the weight of excessive bureaucracy.
However, this flexibility does have its limits when it results in exceptions and regulations being interpreted differently according to the whims of the supervisory authorities.
This causes serious distortions of competition, not only between the Member States, but also within them.
Therefore, we need to introduce improvements in the food hygiene regulation so that inspectors have more legal certainty and more legal powers.
The inspectors must have adequate legal measures available to them, for example, in the form of criminal fines.
Mr Almunia, there is a great deal of legal uncertainty in this area which must be removed and we are expecting a proposal from the Commission.
