Madam President, Commissioner, Mrs Malmström, I have just noticed that gender mainstreaming has become a feature of this House.
We must be aware that the issue of the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC) is a very important one and that the body which was established a few years ago needs a new driving force, because we are in a transition period with a new administration in the US and soon a new Commission.
I hope that the meeting next Tuesday will ensure that the TEC continues and that it has the appropriate spirit.
A transatlantic market with no trade barriers would result in economic growth of 3.5% in the US and Europe and 1.5% worldwide.
In the context of this economic crisis, this issue is very closely linked with jobs.
For this reason, we should make the most of this opportunity and explain in public statements that we are taking this initiative seriously.
Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, we should also make sure that security policy in the field of energy is handled by the new energy security council and that the regulatory issues are dealt with in the TEC.
It is important that these two areas are not mixed together in order to prevent duplication and to ensure that we have a solution at the end of the day.
This involves, in particular, the question of the legislators.
It will not be possible to remove barriers without the participation of the European Parliament and the US Congress, because 80% of the regulations are enshrined in law.
For this reason, the administration cannot achieve this on its own.
There is one final comment I would like to make about the summit.
Climate change, Afghanistan, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, weapons of mass destruction and disarmament are all important issues which offer new opportunities as a result of the new administration.
I would like to wish you success in ensuring that all of this is included and I hope that the new Nobel prize winner, in cooperation with the European Union, will achieve major success for all of us in these areas.
