Mr President, Mr Bildt, Commissioner, this is possibly the last enlargement debate that we will have with you, Mr Rehn.
I would like to thank you for the many good debates that we have had with you since 2004.
I would like to make a few comments.
In my opinion, it is now time for the difficulties being created for Croatia from outside the country to be quickly resolved so that, during the next year, we can rapidly come to a decision with Croatia, complete the negotiations and ratify the accession treaty.
I believe that these bilateral issues, which apply to a number of other countries, including FYROM and Greece, and also the measures continually being taken against Serbia, which I think is an extremely important country in terms of the stability of the region, should be rapidly resolved.
It must be made clear that every country should be judged according to its capabilities and that the promise made in Thessaloniki, particularly concerning the western Balkans, will be kept.
Every country must be evaluated on the basis of its abilities and the tempo of the process must be adjusted accordingly.
However, it is also important to explain that the Copenhagen criteria apply.
I regret the fact that the Social Democrats, the Greens and others have refused to mention the Copenhagen criteria in committee.
I hope that will be reviewed in plenary.
We would be giving completely the wrong message to the candidate countries, in the same way as if we had failed to mention the absorption capacity of the European Union.
The European perspective must be correct in order for the internal reform processes to start.
However, it is also important that the necessary conditions are met so that no false expectations are raised.
For this reason, with regard to the Copenhagen criteria, we must also ensure in Turkey's case that the political conditions relating to freedom of speech, democracy, the rule of law and freedom of religion are a requirement for accession and that there is no question of a compromise in this area.
