Madam President, as we can see from the fact that many people wish to take the floor, this is an exciting legislative dossier.
Nevertheless, I would like to briefly use this opportunity to respond to what Commissioner Kallas talked about, namely the Commission's rejection of the proposed amendments regarding Europol.
I understand the Commission's motives, as well as the desire to maintain consistency, very well indeed.
Just now, Mr Coelho referred to an issue, one that has also been mentioned by others, including Mrs Vergiat, which has given us much food for thought.
When we are faced with the task of achieving the highest possible standards with respect to the data pertaining to our citizens, then it is not terribly helpful - and perhaps this is something that the Commission should consider in the future, in spite of their rejection of the proposals - for us to have provisions concerning Europol's remit, namely what data is processed, under whose authority this is done or to whom it is transferred, which are divided between numerous legislative dossiers.
There comes a point when it is no longer clear what data may be used by Europol and how it may do so, and what data may not be used.
With regard to the Europol mandate, it would make more sense if all this was established in general terms, instead of legislation always being drawn up on a case by case basis.
It would make the legislation more transparent for the citizens and would surely also benefit Europol's work.
Other than that, I have nothing more to add.
Perhaps I may just add a brief comment regarding a point that was mentioned earlier, namely the different access rights granted to Eurojust and Europol.
In this case, of course, one must take into account the fact that a law enforcement body operates in a different way to a prosecuting body and should, therefore, have a different remit.
However, if we are to have a Justice Commissioner in the future, we may also be able to deal with this issue at European level.
