Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if you believe that the European Union needs partners, as all the previous speakers have said, then this becomes particularly clear in the area of the economy.
The transatlantic market has a trade volume of around EUR 2 billion per day.
This makes it obvious how important the World Trade Organisation (WTO) is.
It also becomes clear that free trade agreements are important and, above all, that we must focus more closely on the transatlantic partnership.
I am sometimes concerned about what is happening on the other side of the Atlantic when I look at the new President.
He will find the time to accept the Nobel prize in Oslo, but it was difficult for many European Heads of State or Government to get appointments to meet with him on the fringes of the G20 Summit.
He had time in Copenhagen to support his home city's Olympic bid, but unfortunately he did not have time to join us in an important European celebration, in other words, the 20th anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall and the iron curtain.
I would be pleased if we succeeded in convincing him that he should not wait until a few days beforehand to decide whether the TEC meeting should take place, but instead that he should support the TEC with complete conviction over the next few years.
We need trade between Europe and the US to be made easier.
We need improvements in the area of joint standardisation.
We need the removal of duties and non-tariff trade barriers.
We must prevent more protectionist measures from being taken by both sides.
We must guarantee that products are safe for our consumers.
We must prevent anti-terrorism measures from obstructing all these activities as is currently under discussion.
For these reasons, I would be happy if we could make real progress in our cooperation.
Many of the issues which concern us in other areas of the world, such as wage, social and environmental dumping, are not problems in the transatlantic relationship.
I believe that we should take the opportunity, on the one hand, to work together with the Americans to solve our common problems and, on the other, to attempt to play a joint role throughout the world in making progress within the WTO or other international organisations, such as the International Labour Organisation.
I am hoping for good results in this respect next week.
