Mr President, now that we have all agreed on the 2010 budget, in line with political realities, today we must, of course, focus our attention on what lies before us in the next few months.
As the European Council has granted itself EUR 23.5 million using a very one-sided process, we will also have to put in place the necessary supplements to the parliamentary budget very rapidly, in order to maintain the balance between the institutions and to ensure the ability of Parliament to respond to the challenges posed by the Treaty of Lisbon.
We will also have to pay sufficient attention to the ability of the groups, the committees and, in particular, the individual Members, to act with regard to the tasks that face us.
In addition, we will have to hold general discussions over the next few months on adjustments, reviews and revisions.
This concerns adjusting, renewing and enhancing the interinstitutional agreement.
It is about linking up parts of the interinstitutional agreement into a multiannual financial framework, which has a different decision-making process on the basis of the Treaty of Lisbon.
It is about the codecision procedure in the Financial Regulation.
In addition, it relates, for example, to the large package to develop the European External Action Service, with regard both to guaranteeing Parliament's budgetary rights and to the possible adjustments to the legal bases that may be necessary for the multiannual programmes of the External Action Service.
For this reason, I would like at this point to say once again that without adjustments, reviews and revisions, nothing can be done.
We cannot put off indefinitely the necessary process of phasing in the budgetary challenges of the Treaty of Lisbon.
I expect the new Commission to begin work very quickly and to make proposals which guarantee the rights of Parliament in every area and which do not attempt to modify individual rights through the back door, as this could be to the disadvantage of Parliament.
We know how to stop this happening.
