Mr Kelly, from a strictly legal point of view, the Treaty of Lisbon brings with it a change, in that it deems tourism to be a third-level competence of the Community, in other words, the Community may act to supplement the activities of the Member States but cannot put forward any harmonising legislation in this field.
In practice, the Treaty of Lisbon represents no change from the status quo, since we achieved everything that the Treaty of Lisbon now provides a legal basis for in this regard a few years ago via a form of voluntary collaboration with the Member States.
This means that the Member States agreed to the Commission playing a part in tourism policy a few years ago.
We have, in fact, been able to take a whole range of specific decisions together with the Member States.
The fact that tourism is now to occupy its own place in Europe's Treaties, however, will mean that tourism will gain in significance within our overall growth and employment policy.
If I could have the incoming Commission inherit, so to speak, one thing from me, it would be this.
There is an enormous potential for growth in this area, and it could be better unlocked through adroit and intelligent collaboration between the Member States and the Community institutions.
It is absolutely clear that Europe is still the most attractive destination for tourists from all over the world.
We do have immense structural changes to deal with, however.
We have enormous amounts of competition to deal with, especially from Asia.
We must pull out all the stops to ensure that Europe remains the number one tourist destination worldwide.
If you were to ask me what, in my opinion, is the top priority requirement, I would say that all tourism providers - the regions, the Member States and the Community institutions - must do more overall to make Europe better known around the world as a tourism brand and a mark of quality.
We have taken the first steps in that direction and I take the view that there is much more that can be done in this regard.
I hope that, on the basis of the clear political signal that the Treaty of Lisbon and its inclusion of tourism policy provide, we will, over the next few years, see greater exploitation here in Parliament, in the Council and in the Commission of the opportunities that exist to promote European tourism and boost its visibility.
I am absolutely convinced that this is an area in which there is considerable scope for us to provide greater growth and in which, above all, we can provide jobs in regions of Europe where there are no practical alternatives, where only tourism can provide really good jobs.
