Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are arguing against the urgent procedure, not because we do not believe that there is an urgent need for measures, but because we believe that the Commission is not implementing the right measures and is not willing and able to solve the current crisis in the dairy sector.
The Commission is not part of the solution to the problem, but is actually the problem.
We must point out, therefore, that the Commission has caused part of the problems itself by increasing the quantity of milk.
It failed to react in any way for months as the crisis went on.
The Commissioner told us as recently as four weeks ago that there were no problems, that the market would improve and that we must be patient.
This, of all Commissions, is the Commission to which we are handing our powers and this, of all Commissions, is the Commission from which we are expecting help.
No, I do not think that is the right way to proceed.
Even yesterday, the Commission was unable to tell us what the additional funds are to be spent on.
The Commission talks of restructuring.
Over recent years, all restructuring has meant has been fewer and fewer dairy farmers.
The Commission has also failed to say how it intends to reinforce the producer organisations going forwards.
No, it wants to continue paying out export refunds.
We have also heard no answer about how we are to strengthen the producers' position in their struggle against the supermarkets.
The Commission was unable to put forward any solution in this regard yesterday either.
In the light of all this, we are highly doubtful that the Commission is wholeheartedly working to resolve this crisis.
We are writing a blank cheque without knowing what the Commission is doing, how it is doing it and with what it intends to do it.
Yet another issue was the crucial reason for our decision to reject this procedure, however.
We, Parliament, have long been fighting for more rights - particularly in the field of agriculture.
Yet just as we are on the verge of the Treaty of Lisbon being ratified, the first thing we do is to give these rights away again!
That simply cannot be allowed to happen.
As a new Member of this House, this strikes me as somewhat extraordinary.
We must exercise our rights, we must hold the debates in this House and we must keep our hand on the tiller.
We, too, have responsibility here, I am happy to accept that.
We must not, however, give up any responsibility.
Rather, as parliamentarians, that responsibility is our calling.
We must provide the dairy farmers with serious and long-lasting help.
(Applause)
