Mr President, first of all, I would like to say thank you.
Despite many problems, the Swedish Council Presidency has done a splendid job.
Sweden is a medium-sized country in the European Union and we should view that as a positive thing in all respects.
I would like to thank you and your entire government, Mr Reinfeldt.
With the climate, the financial market crisis, the Treaty of Lisbon and the new Commission, you have had really difficult tasks and issues to deal with.
I would like to single out two issues.
The first is the financial market crisis.
The fact that, together with the Commission, Sweden remained firm with regard to the consolidation efforts of individual Member States is extremely positive.
The fact that you did not say 'we will now release Greece from its responsibilities within the euro area' is something that I can only wholeheartedly support.
The second area is climate policy.
We have listened to the criticism from the Communists and the Greens.
They do not have any actual responsibility anywhere in Europe.
We can pursue climate policy in the style of China or the US by making grand proclamations but not achieving any results.
Europe has achieved results.
I reject the claim that Greenpeace is the yardstick for European climate policy.
We must remain realistic!
Here, too, the Swedish Presidency surprisingly achieved very good results during its term, together with the Commission.
I would like to express my sincere thanks for this, too.
With regard to the subject of the Treaty of Lisbon: Mr Schulz is not here at the moment.
He said that the Commission is influenced by it being made up of deputy leaders of European parties.
I am only surprised that the chair of a political group wants to make an issue of the political commitment of individual members of the Commission.
What is the point of that?
I can only reject that argument.
Finally, I would like to encourage you - as I did when you took office - to finally join the euro.
Can I say 'Sweden ante portas', Mr Reinfeldt?
