Mr President, Commissioner, thank you for giving me the opportunity to speak today.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left has repeatedly made clear in plenary its fundamental criticism of the direction and nature of the foreign and security policy of the European Union and has been opposed to following this course, including in the Treaty of Lisbon.
This joint debate at the beginning of this parliamentary term covers one of the most important reports of the term.
Unfortunately, although I understand Mr Brok's motives from the perspective of parliamentary activity, we have to get something underway within a deadline which makes it difficult to weigh up properly and responsibly the dimensions and complex issues resulting from the content of this new structure.
It has become clear during the course of the debate how much unfortunately is still up in the air and therefore within the political poker game between the interests of national power and government and the EU structures.
The GUE/NGL group is opposed to this.
Therefore, we hope that the European Parliament will have the opportunity after the negotiations to consider the European External Action Service (EEAS) again in accordance with the expectations expressed this morning in plenary to the Swedish Presidency concerning restraint in the formulation of the negotiating mandate.
We in Parliament should also ensure that the citizens of Europe are as well-informed as possible about the different aspects of the EEAS, particularly in the face of the doubts and criticism relating to the Treaty of Lisbon and the demand for more transparency and democratic codecision in this respect.
The discussions about the establishment of the EEAS have been taking place for months behind closed doors.
My group would like to repeat that the failure to include the European Parliament, the civil society organisations that have so far been affected, or even the national parliaments, gives rise to serious questions.
This is particularly the case because a lively debate and open and transparent discussions about the institutional structures are of great importance for their legitimacy in future and for their public accountability.
As a result, I welcome Mr Brok's approach in which he attempts, by means of his report, to achieve parliamentary codecision for the European Parliament at the very least.
Some of our requests aim to produce the same results.
We oppose all efforts - and I say this unequivocally and categorically - to include political-military structures in the EEAS, regardless of whether this happens now or in the future, as has been recently proposed by France, among others, in the Council.
The possible combination of military planning, secret service structures and general diplomatic and political tasks is not acceptable from our point of view.
