Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, last year, and this year, too, dairy farmers made their concerns known very loudly, including in Brussels.
The impression you get from the media is that it is only the dairy farmers that are in a difficult situation.
The fact is that other farming sectors are also affected by this.
In contrast to our dairy farmers, the pig producers, pig fatteners, poultry farmers, fruit and vegetable growers, wine growers and even cereal farmers are used to there being good and bad years and therefore do not make their voices heard so loudly.
Nevertheless, I think that it is good for us to highlight the situation of these farmers today, too.
Commissioner, you said that the financial and economic crisis has affected the whole of the agricultural sector and that we ought to consider how we can respond to this.
When talking with the farmers affected on the ground, I hear the same things again and again: by and large, they say they are coping with the markets, apart from situations where it is extremely difficult, like it was last year and is this year for the dairy farmers and others.
However, what the farmers do not understand is that we in Europe are burdening them with ever more red tape.
They say that they want to work their land and feed and care for their animals rather than spend the whole day keeping books and records about what they are doing.
For centuries, our farmers have produced food without keeping vast quantities of records.
The yields on the land have increased, the performance of the animals has improved and today, we inundate our farmers with red tape.
I have recently read that the agricultural ministers are discussing a reduction in red tape.
Our farmers hardly dare believe this anymore.
I hope that we can finally make some progress on this and allow our farmers to do what they do best, in other words, produce food - healthy food for half a billion people.
We should support them in so doing and ensure that they are able to achieve this in future.
