Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Doha Round has been dragging on for eight years now and the vast majority of developing countries did not actually want this Doha Round in the first place.
At the beginning, it was the US and Europe who wanted to force the consent of the developing countries by the use of the concept of 'development'.
In the meantime, however, the negotiations have failed twice.
Only the large agricultural exporters, Brazil and Argentina, and perhaps India, are really interested in something actually happening here.
The EU, too, has also de facto taken a step back if we look at the EU's routine demands over the last few years and also at what is now on the table for the next few years.
However, we really need to take an objective look at what has come out of the last few years, other than a twenty year liberalisation policy.
This liberalisation policy is partly responsible for the economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing.
We cannot behave as if we can carry on in the same way.
I do not want to mention the consequences for the world climate if we carry on as before and have no proper rules.
We have now had a conference in Geneva, where, in the midst of the crisis, everyone claimed that we have to carry on as before and we can simply wait until the crisis is over and then continue where we left off.
It is claimed again and again that the Doha Round will give new impetus to the economic recovery.
However, all of the figures point to this not being the case, and besides, the implementation times and periods will be much too long.
Another recurring claim is that the developing countries will then be able to share in the recovery.
However, if we take stock in an objective way, we have to say that it will not bring about recovery for the majority of developing countries, but rather the opposite.
Instead, the net effect for most of the developing countries will be negative.
We cannot therefore recommend to many of the developing countries that they cooperate with us in the middle of the crisis.
Even if none of the members of the World Trade Organisation or any of the large political groups in the European Parliament dare to say so, we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will say it: we call for an end, finally, to the Doha Round, which has been stuck down a blind alley for years and is completely inappropriate at this present time.
We believe that the WTO needs to work on a reform and that, in its present form, it is unable to help in resolving the global crisis.
In future, we need fair trade, not merely trade that is, in principle, free.
Looking at the agricultural sector over the last twenty years, what has this permanent liberalisation actually brought?
It has resulted in an enormous pressure for rationalisation in the industrialised states.
Processes have been industrialised, and the developing countries have essentially got nothing out of it except destabilised markets.
Instead of giving the principle of food sovereignty its rightful status in the discussions, we have instead given absolute priority to the principle of total free trade.
For this reason, the resolution of the Greens calls for no further political capital to be invested in the dead Doha Round.
We call for a new start to the process.
