Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to offer you, Mrs Malmström, my sincere congratulations on moving, so to speak, from Parliament into government and from government into the European Commission.
I wish you all the best.
We are having the last meeting under the Treaty of Nice and we are talking about the first meeting under the Treaty of Lisbon.
This quantum leap, this change, this new chapter must be noticeable at the first summit.
Europe has changed.
The debate about the institutions is over and the debate about staffing as well, I hope.
We are moving over to policy making in a new context.
Citizens' rights and parliaments will be strengthened, the European Union's and the institutions' ability to act will be reinforced and we, all three institutions, will be given rights which will make it easier for us to represent our continent in the world.
You can write anything you like on paper.
However, whether we can convince the people that we have the political will to take action, formulate new objectives and involve citizens in projects will depend on all these meetings in the next few weeks.
I am expecting this summit to generate a new dynamic, a new sense of responsibility and a more serious approach to handling different topics.
What we have seen over the last few days was the search for the lowest common denominator: nationalisation and politicisation.
The Treaty of Lisbon, on the other hand, is a call for Europeanisation and for policy making.
This is why I expect that we know what we will do with the model of the social market economy.
How will we handle the financial and economic crisis?
We cannot do this by defending existing rights, but by searching for global solutions.
I also expect us to review our finances.
It is essential for us to know how much money we have to spend on our policies.
The summit must pass the responsibility for this financial review to the Commission.
We must discuss the various themes seriously, honestly and openly and set ourselves new objectives.
I wish you all the best.
