Mr President, I would like to welcome the two candidates on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group.
Above all, we welcome the fact that a woman has been elected.
We assume that the two candidates for the high offices will not only focus on the content of their responsibilities, but will also develop a cooperative approach to Parliament.
We expect the Council to deal more closely with the social issues resulting from the crisis and to draw the right conclusions.
Billions have so far been paid to the bankers, but there has been virtually no help for the ordinary people.
Mr Schulz is right when he says that the casino is open again, but at the same time, poverty and, in particular, child poverty is growing.
Four million jobs were lost throughout Europe as a result of the crisis.
According to reports from the Commission, this figure could increase to seven million over the course of the next year.
We know that estimates of this kind are often lower than the real figures.
For example, 1.5 million people in Germany are on short-time work and it is important to emphasise this.
However, growing unemployment and poverty are the first signs of even greater inequality of opportunity which will have a major impact on educational opportunities.
We also need to discuss this subject.
The question that arises is whether the Heads of State or Government will find ways out of the crisis which combine the European concept of integration with social progress and which have a real impact for the citizens of Europe.
Instead of exit strategies for the economic recovery programmes and mandatory budget consolidation, we need a change of policy.
I have just three observations to make about this.
Firstly, we expect the Council to give a statement on its position on the plans for the 2020 strategy, which is intended to replace the failed Lisbon Strategy.
Innovation and knowledge, combating exclusion, green economic strategies, a digital Europe - as a list of slogans, this does not sound too bad.
However, we urgently need concrete proposals describing how all of this will be implemented.
Secondly, the Council must finally commit to a strict control system for the financial markets.
I have a number of legitimate questions about how the Council can bring this into line with existing treaties, because in some cases, restrictions on the free movement of capital and payments are not permitted or wanted.
We are interested to see how you will achieve this.
Thirdly, I would like to emphasise once again that the Council must give a clear signal after Copenhagen that a binding climate change agreement is needed.
Voluntary commitments have never achieved the desired objective.
