Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Commission for presenting its opinion to us.
However, I would also like to point out that, following the interinstitutional agreement between the Commission and Parliament, and I have seen this happen with the Services Directive, which we discussed in Brussels months ago, Parliament has a right to demand that the Commissioner responsible should be here to answer difficult questions.
I do not think that we can resolve this issue with this Commission and there is no point in trying to do so.
On behalf of Parliament, I would like to explain to the representative of the Commission who is here that we believe that this part of the interinstitutional agreement is extremely important.
Why is that?
Not for reasons of mere formalism, but because this is a very important political question for the citizens of the European Union.
Mr Bielan has just referred to the Services Directive, which can only function if professional qualifications are recognised by both sides.
It is of great importance, but many people also connect it with a feeling of helplessness, if they have the impression that their employer is making use of discrepancies in the cross-border mutual recognition of professional qualifications simply to reduce their earnings.
These people feel abandoned and helpless.
I have seen this myself in a number of cases here on the border between Germany and France.
However, this is obviously not the only problem area.
It is true that we cannot resolve all the difficulties overnight and that this process will remain an ongoing issue in future, as Mr Lechner, the rapporteur, has said.
Nevertheless, it is our job to show the citizens that we take their concerns seriously and, in my opinion, this also includes the Commission attaching sufficient importance to this issue.
I hope that we will be able to work together with the new Commission on this in order to make progress.
I would like to ask you to arrange this with the Directorate General responsible for this area.
