on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Mr Barroso, you will understand that, as the leader of a group in this House, I am, of course, pleased that we women have succeeded in making the women at the top of the European Union more visible.
However, it is important for us that women are not only taken into account in terms of numbers.
You can rely on us to help you ensure that these women have influential positions within the Commission.
We do not want mere token gestures.
There has been a lot of publicity about the people in the top jobs, Herman Van Rompuy und Baroness Ashton.
The Members of this House are more familiar with Baroness Ashton than they are with Herman Van Rompuy.
We will have the opportunity to get to know them even better in the hearings.
I recommend that you suggest to Herman Van Rompuy that he comes to meet the groups in this House, so that we can find out more about him.
Everyone is saying that the Belgians are very proud of him.
Why does he not enter into a voluntary debate with the groups in this House, so that we can get to know one another better at the beginning of his period of office?
That was my look back at last week.
The next summit will soon be upon us.
Mr Schulz, I do not think that we are talking too little about Copenhagen.
We are drawing too few logical conclusions from our discussions.
Parliament will be voting this week on a resolution which includes everything that would be right for Copenhagen, if you believe the United Nations and the scientists.
People in Europe have increasingly backed away from these recommendations over the course of time.
My analysis of the central problem behind this is that climate protection is regarded as a burden and that the opportunities presented by a consistent climate policy are not recognised.
Another agenda item for the next summit is the Lisbon Strategy.
One of the long-term tasks of this strategy has been to promote sustainable development, but we have not been able to achieve this.
The different pillars of the Lisbon Strategy have always been given different levels of importance.
The environment, social justice and sustainability have always been marginalised in favour of older and, in my opinion, outdated priorities relating to industrial, economic and even research policy.
If you intend to decide at the next summit that we should adopt the revised Lisbon Strategy in the spring, we do not have time to analyse the weaknesses of the Lisbon Strategy, which, as I see it, has failed.
Why did we get into such a disastrous economic crisis?
Why do we have so many social and labour market problems in the European Union?
We do not believe it is a good idea to prepare the Lisbon Strategy and to review it without careful reflection, without self-criticism and without a genuine consultation process, such as the one called for by the trade unions and the Social Platform, because the Lisbon Strategy is very important for all of us and for the perspective of the European Union.
Finally, I would like to look at the Stockholm Programme.
Like many of these large programmes, it sounds like a good thing, and this is what is constantly being said about it and what people generally seem to be thinking.
However, my group has the impression that there is an imbalance between freedom and security.
We do not agree with this development and we will be highlighting this using the example of SWIFT.
It was a serious mistake not to put SWIFT on the agenda.
Mr Barroso, you are attempting to bypass Parliament with this provisional SWIFT agreement, while disregarding the concerns about data protection.
This is an indication of the fact that freedom and security are currently out of balance.
