Mr President, the Treaty of Lisbon has been ratified by all 27 Member States.
Many will be celebrating this as a great success, but my group will not be joining in these celebrations.
I have stated the reasons for this many times in this House and I do not intend to do so again.
Unfortunately, the fact that the Charter of Fundamental Rights will not apply for the citizens of three Member States gives me doubts about the EU's great progress in the protection of fundamental rights.
I mention this specifically in view of our celebratory sitting today and Václav Havel's speech.
However, precisely because the Left in Europe wants a social, peaceful and environmentally sustainable European integration, we will also continue to use the framework provided by the treaty for this purpose.
We have done this up to now, and we will continue to do so.
In this connection, I can only welcome the fact that the European Parliament will now have more rights.
Amidst all the rejoicing, the Heads of State or Government would also have been well advised to use their recent summit for more tangible policies.
The greatest challenge facing the world is climate change.
In the run-up to the world climate conference in Copenhagen, the European Union has, unfortunately, lost the leading role that it had set itself.
For one thing, the substance of the commitments to reduce CO2 emissions does not correspond to what is actually needed.
Moreover, it is unacceptable that the EU Member States quite clearly want to avoid their financial responsibilities, even though this is a situation where we cannot afford to delay our action.
It is not about whether Sweden will soon become a great wine-growing region - although I do not begrudge you that.
It is quite simply about survival and, incidentally, also about peace in our world.
Climate change is already causing poverty and hunger and forcing millions of people to flee from their homelands.
Everyone in this Chamber has surely spoken at one time or another of global challenges that cannot be overcome at national level.
Climate protection, peace and combating poverty are just such challenges.
If the European Union does not act in a consistent and exemplary manner in this regard, it will lose its acceptance as an international player.
