Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Mr Barroso, there has been much speculation over staffing issues during the last three months and over the possible entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, which my group has rejected for three good reasons.
In simplistic terms, firstly we want priority to be given to a social Europe rather than to a radical market orientation.
Secondly, we want disarmament instead of the development of military capabilities and, thirdly, we want more direct democracy rather than a Europe made up of elites.
We should at long last be dealing with specific issues of content.
While we are arguing over names and positions, more and more people are losing their jobs.
The banks have, of course, been rescued.
At the same time, Mr Barroso is calling for us to bring an end to the economic recovery plans soon - yesterday the deadline was set for 2011 - and for the budget deficits in the Member States to be reduced quickly.
This will mean reductions in salaries and pensions, cuts in public services and social security provision, higher value added tax and a lack of collective agreements.
One current example of this can be found in the German commercial cleaning industry where workers have been on strike for three days.
These are the problems which are affecting people in Europe and these are the problems which the Council should be dealing with.
Instead of this, the main subject of concern is adding clauses to the Treaty of Lisbon to encourage the Czech President to sign it.
If this is really as simple as it seems to be in practice, I would ask the Heads of Government to think more carefully about a social progress clause in the Treaty of Lisbon.
That would be much more appropriate.
At the beginning of the parliamentary term, a series of positive proposals were made concerning a more social EU policy.
This did not just relate to the social progress clause.
It was also about a new economic recovery plan for Europe in order to create and retain jobs and about increased investment and sustainable environmental growth.
A European Employment Pact for more and better jobs, for equal pay, for more rights for employees and better working conditions was called for.
There were discussions about increased solidarity among the Member States and ensuring the sustainability of the social security and pension systems.
I have not yet identified any strategy within the policies of the Member States or the policies of the Commission which might lead us towards these objectives.
Of course, the Council must now consider the appointments to the new Commission and the possible changes to the Treaty of Lisbon.
However, the focus must be on the problems I have referred to and on their solutions.
My group's vote on the College of Commissioners will be dependent on this.
