Mr President, Commissioner, I think we all agree on the objective here.
Of course, we all want the citizens of Europe to be able to move about freely and to exercise their professions.
The question is why this directive has still not been properly implemented after four or now nearly five years.
I believe it would make sense if the committee was involved not only in drawing up and enacting the legislation, but if it also carried out an analysis afterwards of the reasons why transposition is delayed in this way.
The Directive on the recognition of professional qualifications is not the only directive which is causing problems.
When there are so many cases in the Court of Justice of the European Union, when there are so many complaints procedures and when SOLVIT is so heavily involved with this subject, this should act as a wake-up call for us.
We must look more closely at the reasons behind this.
There are a number of causes.
On the one hand, it is always very easy to say that the Member States are responsible for the delay.
Protectionism is doubtless another of the reasons.
The different cultures and legal systems certainly also play a role.
What effect does European legislation have on these differing legal systems?
That is another issue that we will have to address.
In addition, we must consider whether the directive has had the intended effect or whether it was incapable of achieving certain results right from its conception.
I believe it is very important that we look at this issue again.
This type of ex-ante analysis is one of the important subjects which this committee will have to deal with and make progress on.
However, I also have questions for the Commission.
I am surprised that these guidelines are only appearing after more than four years.
This could have been done much earlier.
However, I do welcome the guidelines.
I have read them and they are certainly helpful.
Nevertheless, it would have been useful to have them some time ago.
I would like to join with Mrs Gebhardt in asking what is happening about the European professional card.
That will be the second important step.
