Madam President, Commissioner, I would like to thank you sincerely for the clarity and credibility of your statement with regard to the limit values under discussion here.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) - we also provided the rapporteur for the Toys Directive at that time in Marianne Thyssen - I would therefore like to make it clear that we, too, want to achieve and maintain complete protection in respect of all hazardous substances.
We know that, in this regard, we have a particular responsibility for the health of our children and therefore our future.
Particularly before Christmas - you mentioned this, Commissioner - it needs to be possible for parents and grandparents to be certain which toys are safe for their children or grandchildren and which toys they can buy for them.
Like you, I, too, call on the market surveillance authorities in the Member States, in particular, in Germany, to fulfil their obligations and remove dangerous toys from the market.
I believe that we made the right decision at the time not to implement certification by third bodies as a general evaluation criterion for toys.
As regards the limit values, a similar appeal was made a year ago - as you mentioned.
At that time, I wrote a letter to you asking you to refer the matter to the Commission's scientific committee, and that is something for which I am very grateful to you.
I tried, back then, to obtain more scientific opinions from Germany and I have since received these.
I would like to quote from one study by the Chemisches und Veterinäruntersuchungsamt Stuttgart (the Stuttgart Chemical and Veterinary Testing Office): 'Comparisons of the higher migration limit values in the new directive with the fifteen year old values in DIN EN 713 are ultimately difficult to evaluate from a technical point of view.'
With this, I believe I can explain that it is not a cheap way of palming the issue off on to science and saying 'we do not want to examine this any closer because we do not want to understand it', but it is a genuine and difficult dispute among experts and one institute in Germany is clearly putting its point of view across particularly strongly.
However, I urge you, Commissioner, to do everything possible to bring together the scientific institutes involved to enable them finally to agree on a scientifically objective opinion.
