Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon is on the home straight and it is now time to look to the future.
We must make Europe more social, more environmentally friendly and more democratic.
We have a lot of catching up to do in these areas in particular.
I would like to see a Europe in which the citizens regard themselves not just as observers or as the object of the European Community, but as its subject.
I would like to see a Europe which people feel is a Europe for citizens, but we have a lot to do in order to achieve that.
I said that the Treaty of Lisbon was on the home straight, but it is here in particular that it can easily be thrown off course.
I am frustrated by the fact that shortly before the completion of the ratification process, we are seeing an increasing number of blatant violations of the European ethos and of European law.
One individual European president is attempting to hold his people, his country and the whole of Europe to ransom.
Now he suddenly explains that the Charter of Fundamental Rights should not apply in his country.
If what I found out yesterday is true, then he has even been given assurances of this kind.
This would really be outrageous and I would be pleased if the situation could be clarified and a clear explanation given that assurances of this kind have not been made.
Otherwise, it seems that we are returning to the Middle Ages, with despotic rulers granting their subjects only those rights that they are prepared to allow.
However, we are not in the Middle Ages, we are in Europe and Europe is a community based on law, a democracy.
The Czech parliament and senate have already voted in favour of this treaty, without making demands of this kind.
They have, of course, done this for good reason, because they want the Charter of Fundamental Rights to apply in the Czech Republic.
It lies at the heart of this treaty and we should not allow the heart to be torn out of the treaty without good cause.
The fundamental rights are the inalienable rights of all citizens, which should not be available only to some of them.
Europe is a community based on law, a democracy.
It is not a bazaar.
This means that we should prevent dreadful deals of this kind being done with the Charter of Fundamental Rights and we should not, under any circumstances, allow it to be qualified or called into question.
We should not permit things of this kind to become negotiable and Europe to be turned into a bazaar.
These events are a demonstration of how important it is for us to strengthen democracy in Europe.
(The President cut off the speaker)
