Mr President, Mr Vice-President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I have been here in the European Parliament for 5 years now, and I work in the field of internal affairs and the law.
Today, therefore, is a day of joy for me, when we have the opportunity to debate the programmes for the next five years, when we will be able to deliberate on this future as a European Parliament on an equal legislative footing.
We are discussing a dossier, a subject area, that exercises the public, where the public expect answers from us, where they even say that this is an area where we need more Europe.
That is not so for every subject area, but in this case it is.
They are making demands of us.
They want answers from us.
I therefore want to very briefly describe the change that will result from the new working basis and these subjects.
The first point is working with the Council.
We always have representatives of the Council here and they always tell us, as Presidents-in-Office of the Council, that Parliament is very important and that we must work together.
When they leave that role, however, that understanding often crumbles away.
It will be our job, as parliamentarians, to demand of the Council that it no longer allow this understanding to slip away, or for it - as with the SWIFT agreement, for example - to create precedents, despite not involving us here in Parliament in the approval process.
That cannot, and in future, will not, be the situation any longer.
It was a bad example of the institutions taking each other seriously.
My second point is that we must be creators of ideas.
The new treaty gives us the opportunity to table legislative initiatives.
If we want to strengthen Frontex, we cannot just call for things to happen and just make proposals, we must also put legislation on the table.
In future, we will have the opportunity to do that.
My third point is that we also need to be a serious partner, one that does not just draw up wish lists.
If, for example, we are dealing with the fight against illegal migration, we must not just take on NGO positions, we must be a serious partner.
Finally, the European Parliament must take subsidiarity seriously.
If we have competence, we must also consider which subject areas would be better dealt with at the national or regional level.
These are four subjects that I think are important for the forthcoming few years.
The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) would have liked the proposals for the Stockholm Programme to have been much more ambitious still, but today is a day to rejoice that we are entering this new phase, and all that remains to be said is let us get on with the work!
