Mr President, Commission, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, the speech by Mr Borghezio was typical - these eurosceptics cannot distinguish between the Council of Europe and the European Union - as the ruling on crucifixes was given by the European Court of Human Rights, which comes under the Council of Europe.
This could not be done under the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
However, allow me to make a few comments on the current debate.
I believe that the Swedish Presidency has brought the ratification process to a conclusion with great sensitivity and in a targeted manner, when, of course, this process still had to be completed by four countries within its period of office.
I would like to express my gratitude for the fact that this process, which lasted nine years, has been steered home in this way.
I believe that this will also give us the opportunity to put this into practice for the first time, because what happens in practice also determines constitutional reality.
For that reason, it must be clear that the President of the European Council has only the legitimacy of the Heads of State or Government, and in any constitution, any operational president who is not answerable to Parliament is directly elected by the people.
That must be the case for the President of the European Council, too.
Only the President of the Commission has full legitimacy.
I would also like to draw attention, as Mr Barroso also mentioned in quoting Jean Monnet, to just how important the institutions are for our lasting existence.
As far as the High Representative/Vice-President of the Commission is concerned, it must be clear that, when he takes office, he will immediately take on both roles.
He cannot first take office as the High Representative on 1 December and then later as the Vice-President.
He can only take office, as can the Vice-President, once he has been approved by the European Parliament.
There should be no misunderstanding about this, because otherwise we will have legal problems.
I would also like to mention that the European Parliament will exercise its rights with regard to the External Action Service.
We do not want the Treaty of Lisbon to be used to 'intergovernmentalise' Europe.
That is not the spirit of the treaty.
The External Action Service will play a decisive role in this regard.
I would ask you to take seriously Parliament's position on this matter, which you are, of course, aware of, and not to make statements in this regard to the effect that we would destroy you because we have the power to do so.
