on behalf of the S&D Group. - Mr President, given all the differences of opinion in this House, it is a good sign that we have a president here of Hungarian stock of whom we can be sure that he will not act in a discriminatory manner, but that it is simply a natural matter of course in this Europe that the attempt is made to stick to what is right irrespective of language and origin.
Mrs Bauer, you were critical of the language law.
The language law is not as good as it might be, that has indeed been established.
It does not infringe fundamental rights, however.
That too must be stated.
That being the case, there is a need to work on eliminating those deficiencies that do exist - above all, in the interpretation of the law.
It is absolutely crucial that a signal be sent from this debate today that we are making improvements not because we want to play off one population group against the other but because we want the relations between Slovaks and Hungarians within Slovakia, and of course, also between the two countries, to improve.
That must be our concern.
Especially now, as we approach the elections, I can but call for moderation, reason and dialogue, which offer the road to a positive result.
Quite simply, there are also problems with an historical basis, and we should have no illusions about that.
My mother, who was born in Miskolc, and I, born just a few kilometres from Bratislava, feel and sense that.
The crucial thing, however, is that we do not magnify and heat up conflicts that often fundamentally only exist between political powers and not between the people themselves, who get along well.
Just as there is a Hungarian minority in Slovakia, so there is also a Slovak minority in many a municipality with a Hungarian majority within Slovakia.
We must therefore bring these elements together.
The second signal sent from this debate is also a crucial factor.
Together, we have a range of problems.
Slovakia and Hungary, too, have problems together, such as the problem of the Romani.
Would it not, then, be much more sensible to concentrate on solving these existing problems together via dialogue, in an effort to give all the minorities of this region a better chance?
In the end, we are all members of minorities.
The aim must be that we clearly commit ourselves to linguistic diversity - as the Commissioner said - to promoting multilingualism, since languages are an 'asset'.
People who can speak additional languages have an advantage, and when everyone understands that and accepts it, we will be able to look forward to a better future.
