Madam President, Commissioner, the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe supports the views expressed in the opinion of the German Federal Institute for Risk Assessment to the effect that the ALARA principle, in other words, the principle of 'as low as reasonably achievable', should apply in the assessment of carcinogenic substances.
Secondly, there is consequently a need for the Commission to examine whether this principle is also satisfied by the limit values laid down in the Toys Directive.
Thirdly, if this does not happen, we call on the Commission to ensure that, until the Toys Directive has been transposed by all the Member States in 2011, the limit values are laid down in the Toys Directive in such a way as to rule out any risk to the health of children from softening agents in toys.
Fourthly, the principle enshrined in the Toys Directive, whereby chemicals that are potentially carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction are impermissible, must be implemented with regard to accessible parts of toys.
This must actually be achieved by the limit values set, as otherwise such a directive is worthless.
Fifthly, this calls, in particular, for better and more efficient market surveillance, because it is usually toys that have been imported into the EU that exceed the limit values set by the Union.
However, efficient market surveillance would also enable toys manufactured within the EU to be tested to see whether they, too, comply with the limit values.
Sixthly, it is totally unacceptable, should this be the case, that lower standards should apply to imports into the EU than, for example, into the US.
However, the threat by the German Federal Minister for Food, Agriculture and Consumer Protection, Ilse Aigner, to go it alone and prohibit so-called 'toxic toys' herself is, in my view, completely the wrong way to go about it and totally counterproductive when it comes to creating confidence in the European internal market.
Merely cultivating national popular opinion not only destroys confidence in the European Institutions; it also damages the German Federal Government, because it approved the Toys Directive.
