Madam President, Commissioner, it is important for us in the European Parliament to discuss the subject of hunger in the world.
We cannot simply sit silently by while the number of people suffering from hunger, which includes many children, increases.
I was first elected to a parliament 20 years ago and I can still remember well how international organisations such as the World Bank, the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations, the United Nations itself and the World Trade Organisation stated their intention of halving hunger in the world within the next 20 years.
What has happened since then?
Hunger has not been halved, it has increased.
More than 1 billion people suffer from hunger every day.
The opposite of what these organisations intended has occurred.
There is a wide range of different causes for this.
There are countries such as Zimbabwe where an incompetent government has transformed the bread basket of Africa into a famine region.
A communist president has brought this rich country to a position where people are suffering from hunger and we say nothing.
However, we share the responsibility for this.
We spend weeks, if not years, talking about the climate in one hundred years' time.
The people who are suffering from hunger today and tomorrow are not interested in the climate in one hundred years.
They want something to eat tomorrow, but we have no answers to their problems.
Without wanting to neglect the issues of the future, it is a question of simple humanity to concern ourselves with people who are suffering from hunger today.
Mr de Gucht, when we say that we intend to halve hunger by 2050, I find this almost insulting.
As a world community, it must be possible for us to reduce the number of people who do not have enough to eat much more quickly.
We can transport weapons to every corner of the world, but apparently we are not able to do this with food.
This is a failure of the world community, which I would like to denounce.
We must find other answers than the ones which we have come up with today.
