Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have just heard from the Commission and the Council is somewhat discouraging.
Europe faces international competition, global competition, in which European service providers also need to find their place and be successful.
If we look at the history of this directive, which started life in Parliament with a significant level of participation by the Members, it is, in my view, rather discouraging to hear that the glass is half full, or half empty, as Mrs Ferrero-Waldner said.
President-in-Office of the Council, Parliament has not only played a role in the past, but intends to fulfil its role in future, too.
We have therefore decided, within the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, to address this question to you in good time before the transposition deadline in order to check whether you, as the Member States of the European Union, have undertaken your obligations, which were originally proposed by you, to transpose this directive by the end of this year, and whether you are able to meet this target.
At least as far as the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is concerned, I am still assuming that you will do everything you can to fulfil your claim in the coming months.
We will appraise the directive and its implementation from the point of view of the citizens of Europe, the service providers and the workers, and against this background we will examine closely how the Member States behave towards one another and the level of transparency - as mentioned by the Chairman - with which the exchange of views over the elements of the directive is carried out and how effectively the Member States' regulations are screened for their suitability for the internal market as far as service providers are concerned.
The same applies to the scope of the directive.
Here, too, as we have done in the past, we will observe closely the degree to which the European Court of Justice might interpret the EU Treaty so as to give priority to the rights of citizens and that - as we sometimes get the impression happens in the Council - the interests of the Member States do not always take priority.
Secondly, we are very pleased about the point you mentioned with regard to the electronic management of the process, but the key issue in our view is whether service providers can ultimately carry out all the tasks required under the procedure in a simple and effective way using the online process and whether, behind these many home pages, they will actually find people they can talk to about the matter and about the requirements in the Member States, or whether we are not simply constructing walls and barriers here.
Ladies and gentlemen, the President is asking me to be quick.
I would like to come to my last point.
In the previous debate, Parliament called, in particular, for the Internal Market Information System to remove all the problems that the administrations of the Member States may reasonably experience in connection with the transposition of the directive, and I therefore hope, Mrs Malmström, that you will make every effort to ensure that this directive can enter into force on 31 December this year.
