Madam President, the congratulations of my group to our rapporteur are all the warmer for the fact that, through the 2010 budget, we have brought about a state of ongoing works.
It is a snapshot missing significant elements that we will be accruing as a result of the Treaty of Lisbon, including obligations that we enter into under the Treaty, so that we work on the basis that we can and must re-visit this budget relatively speedily, even if, at that point, the focus may be more on the argument about Parliament's rights and less on the contents of the budget.
The President-in-Office of the Council said that there would be a 7.3% increase in funding for research.
We played our part in attaining that.
We support it because we need this extra money for innovations and because this is how we will have to earn our money in future.
At the same time, however, we must also consider the rules according to which we will provide this money and ensure that we do not provide it in such a way that the researchers for whom it is actually intended will no longer be able to access it because they fail to navigate through complicated rules.
I would therefore like to call, at this point, for greater collaboration between the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control.
The Committee on Budgetary Control will be discussing two reserves on Thursday that failed to pass in the Committee on Budgets and I would like to ask, as the spokesperson for our group in the Committee on Budgetary Control, that these reserves be approved.
One of the reserves relates to Commission staffing, specifically in connection with an idea from the Committee on Budgets known as 'staff screening'.
By this point we are very well informed about 30% of the staff at the Commission, but we know nothing about the other 70%, who are still not covered.
This reserve is designed to obtain information about the 70% about whom we currently know nothing.
The second reserve relates to the Financial Regulation.
At the end of this year, the scheduled revision of the Financial Regulation will take place, and our aim with this reserve is to help the Commission out a little, as we believe that we need simplifications and that we must implement certain proposals in the Financial Regulation.
I am very grateful to Commissioner Šemeta for the fact that the Commission, under his leadership, has now, for the first time, carried out a consultation amongst subsidy recipients on the subject of 'Obstacles and difficulties in the application procedure'.
I also want to argue in favour of this reserve as it relates to OLAF, the European Anti-Fraud Office.
The Commission has been refusing to provide us with a working paper since November last year and in so doing, has obstructed the progress of the consultations about OLAF and its legal basis.
It is important, therefore, to obtain a majority for these two reserves.
