Mr President, I would like to reiterate that we were at pains, in the collaboration between the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs over recent months, to get the procedures up and running as soon as possible on the basis of an opinion from the latter committee - which even set up a special working group for the purpose - in order to make the funds available as quickly as possible, after meticulous examination, in the interests of the affected workers and their close families.
I would like to say, secondly, that, in the course of examining the multiannual financial framework and the new instruments, in the course of the budgetary review and the revision, we also have to examine the functioning and the added value of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund, like all the other instruments, and specifically with regard to the effect on the management and on the interaction of the institutions at the national and European level.
We need to contemplate how this interaction with the European Social Fund (ESF) could possibly be better shaped.
We should therefore be open to all possible discussions that could lead to an improvement.
As far as the sources of funding are concerned, Commissioner, you were, of course, absolutely correct, from a purely technical standpoint, in what you said about the payment appropriations from the ESF.
Ultimately, however, I would like the overall picture for the obligations and the payments under the multiannual financial framework, both for the structural funds and for the ESF, to be as we agreed in the overall figures.
It must not be the case that, due to deficient implementation, problems in control and management systems and late implementation of these funds, money potentially remains unused and that we then take a slice of that money every year to pay for additional programmes like this.
That is not in the interests of the originator.
We will, for the time being, take on board what you said about matters of State aid rules.
We did, of course, ask similar questions in another place in relation to Nokia in Bochum and its relocation to Romania.
Despite that, I have to say that there is a need, here, to look very closely at the interaction between the Commission and the reporting duties of the Member States.
Sometimes I get the impression that, when it comes to these issues, things happen in a similar way to the monitoring of the fishing quotas: each side pushes a little towards the other and there is not, in the end, an efficient system.
In this regard, we will stay on the ball and we will also intensively monitor these issues in similar situations and insist that the Commission act in accordance with the regulations and rules that we decided on in 2007.
Finally, my request to you all: please vote in favour of this mobilisation of the Globalisation Adjustment Fund tomorrow.
