Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would have liked to see a more exciting introduction to this topic, because I believe that the European cohesion policy must change after 2013.
We are faced with quite different challenges than was the case 10 or 15 years ago.
The focus for my group is on the fact that solidarity between the regions is not negotiable.
On the one hand, this means that all the regions must have the opportunity to participate in the European Union cohesion policy and, on the other hand, it also means that we must oppose any attempt to renationalise the cohesion policy.
We need a European approach which allows citizens to identify with the European Union.
For us, there is no question that we also need to change.
In the next few years, the spotlight will be on a discussion about prioritising the areas which will receive funding from the European cohesion policy.
In future, we will not be able to subsidise everyone with European money.
We must focus on establishing effective infrastructures, in particular, in the new Member States, and on developing research and innovation.
Of course, we must also bear in mind that in future, the European cohesion policy will have to respond appropriately to challenges such as climate change, demographic change and globalisation.
We also need to concentrate on urban development.
This is not because I want to neglect rural areas, but because we know that 80% of citizens live in towns, cities and urban hinterlands and because rural development unfortunately does not form part of the cohesion policy at the moment, but is covered by agriculture policy.
Our approach is to create stronger networks.
I do not yet know whether this will work, but we must rise to the challenge.
Importantly, support for people themselves also forms part of the cohesion policy and this is why I regret the fact that the Commissioner's response was slightly evasive.
For us, this means primarily education, training and qualifications for everyone from small children right through to the elderly.
Life-long learning is an important concept.
However, this also means that the European Social Fund (ESF) must continue to be integrated with the cohesion policy.
There must be no thoughts of separating the ESF from the cohesion policy.
Cross-border cooperation is very important to us.
We want to strengthen this cooperation at the same time as simplifying the bureaucracy involved.
