Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we should discuss today's debate, and particularly the decisions which follow the discussion, not from a formal, but rather a political perspective.
Uniform standards for laboratory work are, of course, also important for cooperation between the police and the judiciary that is based on trust.
However, there are many aspects of this matter which time does not permit us to discuss.
In principle, however, the core issue is altogether different, namely how seriously the political acteurs take the Treaty of Lisbon, the rights of the Parliament and the citizens, as well as the trustworthy cooperation of the Council and the Parliament.
I would like to give three examples: the Treaty of Lisbon describes the High Representative as a strong voice for Europe, and it is a great shame that the Member States have clearly also applied different criteria in this case.
The agreement on SWIFT codes, which is controversial in many ways, could once again be subjected to careful scrutiny by the European Parliament next Monday.
Instead, it is to be quickly ticked off the list a few hours beforehand and signed with the United States.
We are facing the same situation with the topics we are dealing with here.
Shortly before the Treaty of Lisbon enters into force, we are being asked to quickly push through decisions, which include provisions for the future which will limit our scope for making decisions, or at least significantly restrict them.
We have to ask ourselves why this is the case, as it was certainly possible to submit new proposals on other issues.
The Council's and the Commission's stance lost them the chance to send a clear message to the people of Europe, a sign of commitment to implementing the treaty, a sign of a democratic Europe of the citizens.
We, the European Parliament, have only one option: we must reject these proposals, as we want a broad public debate and we want to use our strengthened rights to support the citizens now, rather than in the near or more distant future.
