Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the agreement on the 2010 budget, we are talking in terms of EUR 141.4 billion in commitments and EUR 122.9 billion in payments.
First of all, I would like to thank both rapporteurs very warmly for their dedication and I would also like to say at this point that everything that Mrs Haug has just said about the 2009 budget is absolutely right.
If we take a look at these figures, we can see that EUR 11.2 billion remains below the payment ceiling for the multiannual financial framework.
This means that, if required, and if there is the political will, the multiannual financial framework leaves us some leeway within the agreed limits.
In recent years, we have, on several occasions, found the solution to necessary changes in the economic and political environment by using reallocation, repeated squeezing of margins and multiple revisions.
These instruments are in place, but with what we have done in 2010, they are definitely reaching the limits of their possibilities.
This also applies to heading 2, where, after 2010 and given the possible margins, the air will be much thinner and actually should not be available at all.
Now we have integrated the second tranche of funds of EUR 2.4 billion for the so-called economic recovery package into these agreements.
It was the right thing to fund the second half, consisting of EUR 2.4 billion, in 2010 and not to postpone part of it until 2011.
Of course, it was not an economic recovery package.
In fact, it involved correct supplementary political priorities with regard to energy and the provision of broadband in rural areas.
The use of the flexibility instrument has enabled us to find an additional EUR 120 million for energy projects and EUR 75 million for the nuclear power plant in Kozloduy.
I would like to point out to the Commission that the way this was handled was very strange and I must also say clearly at this point that this is not the end of the matter.
We are expecting a total of EUR 300 million.
In that context, we are also expecting you to include the funds which have yet to be found for the development of the nuclear power plant in the mid-term review of the budget and not to finance this by means of more cuts in category 1 B. It is important that this is stated very clearly.
In addition, we have carried out a revision for unused funds from 2009 so that a total of EUR 1.9 billion for energy and an additional EUR 420 million for broadband Internet in category II could be put in place.
At this point, I would like to say that this decision on the total amount was the right one, but, of course, we must also make it clear today that our next task is the budgetary implementation of the Treaty of Lisbon.
We surely cannot wait until 2014, as then we will be faced with further political priorities, which the European Union has to resolve as part of the globalisation process, and with other new tasks.
The resolution to be submitted on Thursday states clearly that we are calling on the new Commission to publish a report on the implementation of the interinstitutional agreement as soon as possible, as provided for in the agreements.
At the same time, and I would like to put particular emphasis on this, the Commission must commit to adapting, reviewing and modifying the current multiannual financial plan for 2007-2013 and to extending it until 2015-2016.
In addition, it must set in motion the process for the next multiannual financial framework in order to be able to hold a proper open and public debate about the subsequent financial framework.
This is the job of the new Commission and we will, of course, use both the hearings and the debates during the next quarter to call forcefully on the Commission and the Council to take on board these political priorities.
We have an exciting time ahead of us.
