Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, firstly I would like to express my sincere thanks to the Swedish Presidency for this initiative.
It was a good initiative and I would like to congratulate you on it.
I would also like to thank Baroness Ashton for sitting on the Commission's side on her first appearance here, even though she has spoken primarily in her role as High Representative of the Union for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy.
This is all about a common foreign and security policy.
In some ways, it may not be important where you sit.
What is important is that you are here and that you are representing a common foreign policy.
My second point is that the statement adopted by the Council is a good one and it is by no means anti-Israeli.
On the contrary, it is in the interests of Israel and its security and stability.
It is very important to emphasise this.
If we, as Europeans, are to play an active role in this respect, it is essential that we continue to do so.
I would ask you, Baroness Ashton, to take this to heart.
A few days ago, we were in the US having discussions with our colleagues from Congress.
When faced with one-sided approach of Congress and its lack of understanding of the situation of the Palestinians, President Obama has very few options open to him.
We have great sympathy for the situation in Israel.
We are also opposed to any form of terrorism and we want the captured soldier to be returned to his family at last.
However, we are equally concerned about and sympathetic towards the unfortunate position which the Palestinians find themselves in with regard to everything referred to in this statement and, in particular, the 1967 borders, the difficult situation in Jerusalem and the settlement activities.
It is completely incomprehensible, although it is a continuation of the policy of the last few years, that a highly conflicting approach is being taken to settlement growth.
First it was stopped and then it was included in the national priority programme.
After this, only natural development continued and then roads were built which cut through Palestinian settlements.
The way in which land is being taken away from the Palestinians on a day-to-day basis is totally unacceptable.
What happened to a delegation from Parliament is also completely unacceptable.
Mr de Rossa will also give his view on this.
The Members of this Parliament must join together with the Council and the Commission to state clearly that Members of Parliament have the right to travel to Gaza and to see the situation there for themselves.
What does Israel have to hide?
Why is it preventing Members of Parliament from going to Gaza?
We must not accept this and I hope that we will oppose it jointly.
Transparency and openness, among other things, are the prerequisites for a reasonable Middle East policy.
We must give this our clear support.
