Mr President, President of the Court of Auditors, Commissioner, today is a successful day for the Court of Auditors, but also for the Committee on Budgetary Control, for the Commission and, above all, for you Mr Kallas.
You have a highly successful track record and not all of your colleagues can say that about themselves.
In recent years, we have seen a clear improvement in budgetary and financial management and this improvement is due to the advice and consultancy provided by the Court of Auditors.
For this reason, I would like to thank the Court of Auditors very warmly and congratulate it on producing reports that are increasingly easy to understand.
The traffic light system is a good solution, because it sends out clear messages.
We have succeeded in raising the aspirations of everyone involved by the use of this system.
I would also like to thank the relevant offices of the Commission, because their work has been good and they have realised that something needs to be done in these areas.
However, 31% of the budget is still coloured in red.
We will definitely be focusing on this in the years to come.
There are some areas which are in a better position according to the classification of the Court of Auditors, for example external aid.
However, we also know, of course, that external aid is only in a better position because it is not possible to control the budget aid and because the use of the funds, for example, via the United Nations, merits complaints by the relevant Director General, but not even a reserve in his annual report.
Our focus will be on the forthcoming 2008 discharge procedure for the structural funds and external aid.
There are more than 5 000 external aid positions in the delegations and more than 2 000 in the Directorate General for External Relations and in the development aid department in Brussels.
This is something which it would be good to discuss with the new Commissioner for External Relations.
In the case of the structural funds, we have made good progress by naming and shaming those involved, but we have definitely not reached the end of the road yet.
We must deal with the problems in this area at source.
You have mentioned some of our Member States and I believe that the Commission must significantly increase its efforts with regard to our two newest members, Romania and Bulgaria, otherwise we will have lasting problems there.
The Commission's lack of strategy for these two countries is causing considerable concern.
They need more support, otherwise the EU, as a community based on the rule of law, runs the risk of ceasing to exist.
I would like to congratulate you and to tell you that you can rely on the solidarity and the highly constructive cooperation of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in the budget discharge procedure.
(Applause)
