Madam President, it is good that there is a regular summit between the EU and Russia, as there is, of course, a lot to discuss.
Key topics on the comprehensive agenda include the planned cooperation agreement, securing the supply of energy, Russia's accession to the WTO, climate change, the situation in the Caucasus and, above all, the situation with regard to democracy and the rule of law in Russia.
Disarmament, arms control and a possible anti-missile shield are also on the agenda.
We also both face threats in the form of international terrorism and fundamentalism.
A country like Iran is a challenge for both the EU and Russia.
Both of us belong to the Middle East Quartet and, together with the US, are obliged to work towards a solution in this region.
We hope that the conditions will soon be in place for visa-free travel between the EU and Russia.
I am sure that unhindered interpersonal contact is the best way to give young Russians, in particular, a real picture of the life and ideas of Europeans and our intentions towards Russia.
The prerequisite that will enable us to get through this agenda is, in my opinion, agreement within the EU and clarity in our message towards the outside world.
Although it is a cliché, all too often we have experienced divisions amongst ourselves, or we have allowed ourselves to be divided, over nuances.
In this regard, no EU government should believe that it can negotiate better in the long term alone on an equal footing with Russia than we can achieve through the combined weight of the EU.
As a community of values, we have a common view of the situation with regard to the rule of law and human rights in Russia and we should say so.
Unfortunately, we had to award the Sakharov Prize to a Russian organisation.
My thanks to the Presidency for its clarity in this regard.
As we are equally dependent on energy supplies, we need to ensure that the agreements in the three-way relationship between Russia, Ukraine and the EU are formulated in such a way as to prevent a drop in gas pressure in parts of the EU every winter.
In the Caucasus, we must jointly demand unrestricted access for EU observers.
As regards disarmament or the anti-missile shield, the EU must make its position clear to Russia and the US.
If we achieve all of this, then Russia will take us seriously and we will co-exist well.
