Mr President, one thing has not yet been properly appreciated here today and that is the fact that the positive referendum in Ireland was hardly the first positive referendum relating to the constitutional process that Mr Verhofstadt mentioned.
We had positive referendums in Luxembourg and in Spain.
This one was therefore by no means the first.
It is always amusing to listen to Mr Farage.
Today, however, it was not amusing.
The eurosceptics are indeed poor losers.
The shock of a two-thirds majority really cuts to the quick.
Today, for once, it was not entertaining to listen to you.
It was also interesting to see how Mr Kirkhope turned in his seat, because the Tories are so close to this peculiar party in their views on European policy.
I very much hope that at some point, that will change.
We have seen that there is democratic support in Ireland for the European integration process.
Is there enough democracy in Europe?
Is the democracy in Europe perfect?
By no means, but it was a good day for democracy in Europe.
Now some people are complaining that Ireland was pressurised.
Mr de Rossa said quite clearly that it was a sovereign decision by Ireland to hold another referendum.
Let us remember how the European Union tried to boycott Austria when Jörg Haider came into power.
That simply did not work.
We cannot pressurise our Member States.
They have the sovereign right to decide on these matters.
Others are complaining that Ireland only said 'yes' because of the crisis.
Ireland experienced European solidarity during the crisis.
That is a positive thing!
We also expect European solidarity if homes stay cold in Bulgaria or Hungary because Russia and Ukraine are arguing about gas again.
European solidarity is a good thing.
When this is the result, I think it is a very good thing.
The treaty opens up new opportunities.
There are a number of policy areas involved here - budgetary policy, policy in the judicial sphere, in relation to internal affairs - but the most important one for me is foreign policy.
Even though Mr Swoboda said that we should not have any institutional debates, we need to have a serious debate on the European External Action Service.
We must speak with one voice.
This Parliament - and I would make this clear to the Commission, but also to the Council - wants a strong High Representative and an efficient European External Action Service.
We want an EEAS with a broad basis, we want it to be close to the Commission and we want it to have access to all services, including the services of the Council Secretariat.
That will be the litmus test - including in the Commission hearings.
It will also be a litmus test for the future of European foreign policy in the 21st century, to ensure we are able to speak with one voice.
