Mr President, Mrs Wallström, Mrs Malmström, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon must now enter into force and be implemented quickly.
More than ten years of debates among the institutions are enough.
Now, at last, we need these instruments in order to be able to help the citizens of Europe.
Particularly during this economic crisis, we must do something for the citizens in the fight against unemployment and similar problems.
For this reason, we should rapidly bring these debates to an end.
This is why I am asking President Klaus to clear the way for the treaty which has been ratified in all 27 countries.
In the Czech Republic, the constitutional court has said 'yes' to the treaty on two occasions and it will do so again for a third time.
It is also perfectly clear that the Charter of Fundamental Rights is only applicable in the context of European law.
Land regulations are exclusively a matter of national authority.
The law in force before Community law will not be invalidated by Community law.
These three safeguards are in place, so he has no need to worry.
If necessary, the European Council will have to clarify this once again by issuing a declaration.
In this context, I would like to make another comment.
The implementation of the treaty must reflect the three principles of the draft constitution and the Constitutional Convention: efficiency, transparency and democracy.
At this point, I would like to mention the External Action Service in particular, as we will be debating this subject again this afternoon.
Transparency, democracy and, in particular, the principle of community must not be sacrificed in order to achieve efficiency.
The necessary safeguards must be put in place.
We could say that part of the Commission has a sui generis character, but it is possible to discuss all sorts of issues here.
For this reason, Mrs Malmström, I would like to ask you to drop your government's current plans and not to draw up guidelines for the External Action Service during the meeting of the European Council next week, which would limit the scope for negotiation, but instead to come to final decisions on this subject together with the new High Representative so that we have a common, fair basis for negotiation.
