Madam President, thank you, Commissioner, for your response.
I am also a member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism and I think it is very important that we have this issue on the agenda now.
Indeed, Mr Simpson has already presented it to us.
As it stands, there is a gap in consumer protection where air passengers are concerned.
This gap relates to the insolvency of airlines, as has already been discussed.
In my opinion, it is extremely important to uphold consumer rights, and that is what we are doing.
We are trying to protect consumers as far as possible.
I would like to mention one other aspect from the point of view of our group which has not been a factor in this up to now, but which I think is also an important consideration.
Of course, we want consumer rights to be protected, but we also want consumers to have choice.
When considering how we can close this gap, it may well be the case that a proposal that you draw up in the Commission will result in over-regulation, which may then hinder innovation when it comes to the options offered in this area.
Consumer law also means, of course, that there should be a choice between various different offers from airlines, for example.
Thus, the trend now, for example, is for some very cheap flights to be on offer in place of some flat-rate journeys, something which is also very much welcomed by consumers.
Please do not misunderstand me; I do not want to diminish consumer rights in any way.
Protection of these rights, too, is very important to me, and we do need an appropriate instrument to do this.
However, we should consider the perspectives that we need to take into account to ensure that there indeed remains a large degree of choice when it comes to air travel and that new options can come onto the market, but that consumers are nevertheless protected and are not left with any sort of financial problems if an airline were to actually go bankrupt or has to file for bankruptcy.
In this regard, I am pleased to hear you say that you are working on a solution.
The direction was, of course, clear in that there may also be an aid fund.
I am looking forward to the discussion in committee, which may perhaps even take place this year.
