on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Mr Barroso, Mr Reinfeldt, after having spent four days in Copenhagen, I find it extremely difficult to listen to the words 'leading role of the European Union'.
Leadership - and I learnt this back in nursery school - is primarily achieved by setting a good example.
I would now like to ask you, Mr Reinfeldt and Mr Barroso, whether you actually believe that, with a strategy based on lies, self-deception and large-scale international deception, we can achieve a leading role in an international process such as that in Copenhagen.
You should know, Mr Reinfeldt - and Mr Barroso certainly knows this because he has been involved long enough - that the two-degree goal is a 'mission impossible' if the Europeans stick with the offers that they have so far brought to the table.
The reduction target is inadequate.
At the same time, we Europeans have opened all the back doors in order to avoid a reduction policy at home.
There are no limits to off-setting any more.
Hot air has become the order of the day not only for Poland, but for Sweden, too.
The inclusion of forests, which you and your government in particular have been promoting, Mr Reinfeldt, is another contribution from Europe to avoiding having an active reduction policy.
It has been assessed by many experts in Copenhagen that what you, yourselves, have so far proposed as being the best we can do would not result in emissions in Europe falling by 2020, but rising.
So, Mr Reinfeldt, please explain how we are to achieve the two-degree target if you stick to what has so far been offered.
To make matters worse, a German newspaper, the Financial Times, announced today that you have given up on the 30% target for 2020 and now want to offer this for 2025 instead.
If you really want to promote this process, I would ask you, as a matter of urgency, to take back what has been published in the newspaper today as the European line.
I will say one last thing to finish.
There will be thousands of official observers standing outside the doors of the Bella Centre over the next few days - even though they have accreditation for the conference.
These are people who have been working extremely hard for climate policy for years, some of them for decades.
Please ensure that, because these people are suddenly no longer able to be involved, they do not end up in cages or having to sit for hours with their hands bound on the frozen ground.
There are a lot of leading roles to lose in Copenhagen.
However, the way in which the rule of law in the EU is presented there - I do not care for disruptive crowds, not one bit - and the disproportionate treatment of the peaceful demonstrators - Cecilia Malmström is, of course, an expert in law - is also something that you really ought to explain in Copenhagen.
