Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, micro-credits and small loans can help people who are not able to get credit through normal market mechanisms.
As has already been said, they can also help these people to set up businesses and create jobs with their ideas.
Such credits can help people to get out of a crisis if they are capable of doing so.
Micro-credits are also an important instrument for supporting the social economy.
With its diverse aspects and traditions, it has also been a recognised local employment policy instrument within the EU since 2000.
On account of this, in 2006, this Parliament, in its wisdom, established that resources from the European Social Fund could also be paid out as micro-credits or subsidised loans, as laid down in Article 11 of the European Social Fund Regulation.
However, EUR 76 billion is available for the European Social Fund, and with cofinancing that becomes EUR 118 billion!
Even a tenth of that would still be EUR 11 billion that the Member States could use.
However, they do not use it for micro-credits.
For that reason, the Commission created a test phase for micro-credits with an instrument called JASMINE - also financed from European structural funds, and because this was so successful, a new instrument is intended to follow in its wake.
However, this will no longer come from the structural funds, where we have billions available to us, but from the smallest of all of the European Union's programmes, the poverty programme Progress, for which a total of only EUR 743 million is available over seven years.
It is intended for NGOs which are establishing networks in the Member States in order to provide a pressure group for the poorest of the poor.
The European Roma Information Office alone gets 50% of its funding from Progress.
It establishes national and regional information and advisory offices and gives the Roma minority a voice, particularly in the Eastern European States.
If this House follows the Council and names this instrument Progress, as proposed in the compromises put forward by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, then the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will not give its approval to this instrument.
We cannot allow such conjuring tricks - on one side, taking away money from the poor and, on the other, paying out ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
