Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 2005, we adopted this directive after several years of work and debate in Parliament and it came into force.
In 2007, it was implemented.
Now we have reached 2009 and it is hard to accept that the directive has not been implemented everywhere, particularly since it was not completely new, because there were already proposals in place.
I can only encourage the Commission to exert more pressure on the Member States.
I had expected that the problems would lie in the practical management of the directive.
That is the main subject of the forthcoming investigations: to find out where there are specific local problems and to discover what is actually happening.
There has already been a reference to the fact that 20% of the complaints to SOLVIT concern this subject.
This is a very serious matter.
Mr Harbour rightly pointed out - and I do not want to repeat what he said - the importance of this problem for the internal market from an economic perspective.
However, apart from the economic issues, it is also one of the fundamental freedoms of citizens to be able to exercise their profession and to fulfil their potential in another state, for example, when they marry or move to another country for some other reason.
This is a genuine problem for the citizens of Europe.
It is important for us to acknowledge that there will inevitably be problems.
It is a complex matter, it takes time to implement and different cultures and traditions are involved, particularly with regard to the professions and the concepts of quality and qualifications within those professions.
Therefore, it is not possible to recognise every qualification from one country in another country without question.
For me and for us, this is less about dealing with the individual cases of hardship which will inevitably occur and more about investigating - and this is where SOLVIT comes in - whether there are faults in the structures or in the system and whether and how improvements can be introduced.
I would like to point out that it will never be possible to bring this subject to a close.
It is a long-running issue because new professions and new job descriptions are, of course, constantly coming into existence.
For this reason, this is an ongoing task for the Commission and for Parliament, but also for the Member States, whose goodwill I would like to call on at this point.
