Mr President, I would like to start by commenting on what Commissioner Dimas said.
Of course we need a binding agreement, for the entire issue of climate protection, but in Europe, too, for our European industry.
It is not only green industry that we have, of course.
We also have industry in other sectors, and we must also think about the competitiveness of that industry beyond Europe.
Industry needs certainty of planning, and in that regard Europe has very much surged ahead.
That was the right approach to take and it had my express support at the time.
Now, however, we need to ensure, in Copenhagen, that the positive result of the last year is also carried on up to the Copenhagen level.
We need to nail our colours to the mast of a global carbon budget.
That has already been said, but we need now to really drive the message home to other States and continents.
Once we have done that - and it will not be easy - then the emissions trading scheme must be developed further.
If this remains a purely European story, time will start to run out.
I can therefore only beg the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council to push forward with exporting this message in a really committed way.
We have identified a second problem - and it has already been mentioned today - namely, the issue of deforestation.
In Borneo, Mr Leinen, an area twice the size of the Saarland is cleared by burning each year.
That is a disaster.
8% of the whole world's CO2 emissions are released in so doing, and we can savage our industry as much as we want, it cannot deliver that.
Nor do I want it to deliver it.
We therefore need to develop a completely different focus.
I am absolutely astonished about the financing - it is a numbers race.
For me, it is important that the well from which we draw our money is not treated as bottomless, and I am not certain that that is the case.
Please, Commissioner, can you give me some reassurance on that front?
The developing countries must be included, with adapted figures and targets.
That is my appeal.
Europe was serious, and that seriousness - including on the part of the Commission and the Council, I want to make that clear - is our strength, and it is a strength we should continue to work on.
