Mr President, I am very pleased to see you here for this debate, particularly as you are a former member of the Committee on Climate Change.
President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, it is absolutely right that the European Union should send a clear signal to Copenhagen.
Over the next 50 days, however, it is not so much in Copenhagen, but behind closed doors at the conference that the real activity will take place.
I have been involved with this since the climate conference in Rio in 1992.
The mood before these conferences is always the same, but there are also opportunities.
Commissioner, I would like to see you engaged somewhat more enthusiastically in putting your US colleagues under a positive pressure to negotiate, as you continue to exude a certain phlegmatic quality that we need to work on.
I think it is right that we should not start with some sort of financial competition now.
One party says 15 billion, another says 30 billion.
There are some who simply put up the money, who want to put 150 billion on the table each year, starting now.
Let us develop criteria for how the money is used.
We will then be able to provide a large contribution from Europe, but it cannot be a bottomless pit.
Enough has been said about the crisis.
I would like, however, to once again go into the opportunity that the industrialised world in the United States and Europe has.
If we lay down the right standards, we will be able to develop efficiently.
That will then enable Europe to sell efficient machinery across the globe, for example, to China, where, at the moment, for example, energy is produced in the most inefficient ways.
I also do not see only the threat of climate change but also very much the opportunity to drive forward business and the economy through developing ultra-modern technology.
We must seize this opportunity, we must be much bolder and we must act as entrepreneurs, as political entrepreneurs, because if we do not do so, then we will be being neglectful and we will have chosen the wrong path.
Commissioner, I wish you a great deal of luck and all power to your elbow!
Go forward positively!
Take the Americans and the Indians with you, and we will already be half way there.
