Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, when we debated this year's budget in December of last year, we were already aware and, as general rapporteur for the 2009 budget, I mentioned in the discussion that the impact of the financial market crisis and its repercussions on the real economy would be felt in all the Member States.
This is exactly what has happened.
In April 2009, Parliament and the Council agreed on the funding for the first part of the economic stimulus proposed by the Commission.
In order to make the EUR 2.6 billion available, we needed what was referred to as a minor revision of the financial perspective.
How would we have been able to find the funds otherwise, given our tight budgetary constraints?
The remaining EUR 2.4 billion, which was missing from the total of EUR 5 billion, was to be found this autumn.
This is where we are now.
Autumn is here and, because Parliament and the Council have come to a sensible arrangement on the 2010 budget, we have a solution.
The 2009 budget is also making a significant contribution to this solution.
The 2010 supplementary and amending budget cuts the payment appropriations by more than EUR 3.4 billion.
In line with this, the margins of the unused areas under the different headings will be reduced by almost EUR 1.5 billion.
All of this applies to the 2009 budget, which consists of EUR 133.8 billion in commitment appropriations and EUR 116.1 billion in payment appropriations, and is therefore not exactly on a lavish scale.
If we take a look at the budget lines where the Commission found the necessary money, it becomes abundantly clear that the Commission simply does not take the budgetary authority's resolutions seriously.
I would like to remind Parliament that in 2008, when we adopted the 2009 budget, our priorities were also the competitiveness of the European Union, growth and employment.
This is why we allocated more money than proposed by the Commission to budget lines which promoted the social dimension by creating more and better jobs and supporting small and medium-sized enterprises.
However, it is precisely these budget lines which are being plundered for transfers or amending budgets.
Would it be asking too much to call on the Commission to implement the resolutions of Parliament and the Council and to make an effort to ensure that the money reaches its intended destinations where it will have a positive impact?
The draft budget submitted to us by the Commission has not been accurately calculated or carefully estimated.
In 2009, we had more than 50 transfers and 10 supplementary and amending budgets.
It is not possible to talk about budgetary accuracy and clarity in this context and this situation must improve.
Our fellow Members in the specialist committees must pay greater attention to the implementation reports in the course of the financial year and the Commission must finally live up to the good reputation that it still has of being an effective European administrative body.
I hope that we will all work towards this.
