Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the attacks that have been made here on a common European foreign and security policy belong in the past.
In opinion polls, 70% of the citizens of Europe say that they want a stronger common foreign and security policy, because they know that this is the only way of keeping the peace in Europe and of looking after the interests of Europe throughout the world.
The statements that you have made belong to the past.
These are the sort of statements that have led Europe into war and we want to put an end to them.
We would also like to state that we want this foreign policy to strengthen Europe's ability to act.
I would also like to say explicitly that foreign policy is not the job of parliaments.
Operational foreign policy must be the responsibility of the executive.
This is the case in all national states.
However, this means that parliaments - and in this case the European Parliament - must have full rights of control.
It must be made clear how this applies to the budget, in which areas there is a right to information and where there is genuine accountability.
I would like to invite the Council and the Commission to include in their documents less information about organigrams and about the members of the national delegations who will be appointed to specific posts.
Instead, they must describe the rights of the Parliament in these COREPER documents and not simply say that the rights of Parliament must be maintained full stop.
I believe that some action must be taken here.
In addition, I am of the opinion that the High Representative or Vice-President, who has yet to be appointed, must be involved in drawing up the proposals and must not be presented with a fait accompli.
This must also be taken into account.
Mrs Malmström, it would generate a lot of confidence if you would refer to the High Representative in future as the High Representative or Vice-President of the Commission.
Then we would all be talking about the same subject and this would be helpful in establishing that we really are speaking about the same thing.
(Applause)
