Madam President, indeed, we must take Russia seriously, as Mr Kowal said, in particular, after the signing of the Treaty of Lisbon, with regard to which it is interesting that the President who long refused to sign the treaty, Václav Klaus, has taken a particularly uncritical stance towards Russia.
Taking Russia seriously means developing a sensible relationship and a pragmatic economic relationship with Russia, but it does not mean that we should not be critical of political developments within Russia, particularly with regard to human rights issues.
It was with great regret that we discovered what happened during the last elections, that things were clearly not quite as they should have been.
We are, of course, particularly concerned about the attacks on human rights defenders.
I do not want to lay the blame for these attacks at the door of the Russian Government.
What I do want, and what we demand in this resolution, which is a very balanced one, is for Russia to take the protection of these human rights defenders seriously.
That is not happening, at least not to a sufficient degree.
In this regard, we should focus more on President Medvedev than Prime Minister Putin.
The differences may not be very large, but if either has taken a reasonably enlightened, positive stance, it is surely President Medvedev, and we should strengthen and support him in that.
As regards the energy issue: here, too, we need to cultivate a very calm, reasonable relationship.
I have nothing against Nord Stream, or against South Stream, but I do not want to be dependent on anyone, not on any one country, for our gas supply.
I am therefore very much in favour of the Nabucco pipeline.
Multiplicity, diversification - that is the crucial factor in gas supply connection, whether it comes via a different pipeline, like Nabucco, or via LNG ports.
This is not because the country in question is Russia, but because Europe should not be dependent on anyone.
If we now bring Ukraine into the mix, I would like to see Ukrainian politicians accepting their full responsibility and making the investments that have been agreed with Europe.
I know that Russia often exploits the situation, but if Ukraine fulfils its promises, then Russia will not be able to exploit the situation, because the investments in question will have been made in Ukraine.
