Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Lindblad, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up on the call made by Mr Garriga for realistic budgets.
What are the costs of the Treaty of Lisbon?
This has become a very urgent problem.
Why can we not be more realistic with regard to the Structural Funds?
They have become our sacred cow.
We already have outstanding appropriations from a period of two and half years which have not been discharged and we are piling up at least a further EUR 30 billion on top of these appropriations.
We have a problem in the Balkans, where countries are preparing for accession to the European Union.
As a result of negative resolutions from the socialists and liberals, we have little interest in finding out what is really happening in the Balkans.
How are the different EU institutions in Kosovo, for example, of which there are now large numbers, working together?
These were all important amendments which this House has rejected and which I believe we should all follow up on, because we have a job to do there.
Where is the progress in the progress reports?
We have voted in favour of the report of the Court of Auditors in which we called for a traffic light system, but the Committee on Budgets later refused to lend its authority to this system with corresponding reserves.
All of these things are contradictions and, in my opinion, the House is not yet prepared to be realistic or to lend its authority to its own resolutions.
I would like to call for a realistic approach to Kozloduy.
The special report from the Commission on the use of EU funds in Bulgaria until this summer did not mention Kozloduy, although it has received money from PHARE.
Up to the end of 2009, at least EUR 602 million was spent on Kozloduy.
I have tried to find out what happened to the money and I have discovered that nothing has yet been closed down.
Plans have simply been made for managing the decommissioning process.
Kozloduy has demonstrated to me how little the Commission knows about what is happening with our money.
It also demonstrated that the numerous subsidiary budgets which have come into existence make it more difficult to control the situation and also result in the Commission losing its overview.
Therefore, we should at least stop pressing for the subsidiary budgets, because the result is that we ourselves no longer have any idea what is happening.
