Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a result of the activities of Google Books, the European strategy of taking a slow, targeted approach and of highlighting the many concerns that have been expressed during the course of this strategy has simply been overtaken by reality.
We are faced with Google's comprehensive digitisation of books, including books by European authors, who have not given their consent and who are now surprised and annoyed to find themselves in Google Books, where they do not want to be.
On this subject, I would like to say first of all that when we talk about copyright, it is not simply a question of money.
It is also about the sovereignty of authors, who should have the right to be involved in decisions about whether, how and in what form their books are digitised and used.
This is a central question and a major necessity.
Related to this is the highly critical question of so-called orphan works, whose authors cannot be located.
We need to find an effective and practical solution to this problem.
Each and every one of us has experienced the situation of lending a much-loved book, not having it returned and then not being able to buy it anywhere because it is out of print.
Google Books would, of course, be a very good solution in cases like this, because it would preserve treasures from the world of literature and other related areas, which would otherwise disappear from our cultural heritage.
However, the solution must be designed in such a way that the whole thing makes sense.
Google Books cannot simply ignore all the issues on the basis of an assumption.
An attempt must be made to find the author and to protect his or her rights.
This is where the collecting societies come into action and I would like to see a fair solution being introduced.
As Mrs Niebler said, we need to discuss the role of the collecting societies in this context.
Everyone has the right to reject new technologies but, of course, they also have to live with the consequences and they may find in future that they do not form part of the extensive pool of knowledge which has been created.
This is the central issue today.
Perhaps statutory exceptions are needed in order to provide a relatively effective solution to the problem.
