Mr President, Mr Reinfeldt, Mr Barroso, I believe that it is precisely the recollection of the historic events of 20 years ago that has now allowed us to see the wrangling over how to implement the options after ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon is a critical light.
Václav Havel's splendid words and his ideas about Europe, on the one hand, and the petty disputes over staffing that went on in the background during the last Council, on the other, do not go together, somehow.
In my view, it looks, at the moment, like the relief over the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon after almost ten years is giving way to concern about whether or not it will all be undermined in the governments of the Member States.
However, what we actually need to strive for - particularly given how strongly we applauded Mr Havel's speech - and what we actually need to achieve is to agree that we need strong men and women to be appointed to the top political positions in the European Union and that individual interests, including the interests of the countries that are actually opposed to stronger integration, should take a step back.
Mr Reinfeldt, I am not yet able to congratulate you, because, as yet, there is no convincing sign of these strong men and women at the head of European politics.
The huge praise that various speakers have expressed for what we have achieved in the run up to Copenhagen is also something that I, unfortunately, cannot go along with.
I have just returned from the last United Nations preparatory conference in Barcelona and, as confirmed in the summit here in Brussels, we are going to Copenhagen with ever decreasing expectations.
It is wrong that Europeans have now adopted the stance that we have actually already done everything we can and now it is up to everyone else.
If we look at what the Europeans have actually already done in terms of an efficient climate policy for reducing CO2 emissions, what has actually been achieved, the reduction targets we have set, the legislation in our climate package, none of that is sufficient to achieve the two-degree target that is constantly talked about.
Everyone knows that, even at an international level.
If the Europeans now start to question whether we really want a legally binding agreement, it will call into question a process that, under the aegis of the United Nations, has been supported by many Europeans for many years.
I think you need to think carefully about the announcements you make as you go to Copenhagen.
There is always one concern at the back of my mind: it is frequently said in this House that sustainability strategies, resource efficiency and climate protection should be the new paradigms for European economic and industrial policy.
Mr Havel also received a great deal of applause for this.
I have the impression that Europeans - as often as they emphasise this and as much as they like to applaud it - have lost all faith in these future-oriented jobs during the economic crisis and that, therefore, precisely during this economic crisis, they are casting aside the successful strategies for creating new jobs and the markets of the future.
This causes me serious concern.
The economic crisis is the worst justification for not taking ambitious measures to protect the climate.
Climate protection and economic development are actually two sides of the same coin.
However, that is not at all evident in the European decisions being taken in the European Council.
