Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets, I am today presenting the proposal on mobilisation of the European Globalisation Adjustment Fund in relation to two specific cases, one based on applications from Belgium and one on applications from Ireland.
I would, however, like to start by pointing out, once again, that it is the job of the Committee on Budgets to examine whether the conditions for mobilisation of the Globalisation Adjustment Fund have been met, and I would like, at this point, to emphasise that, over recent months, there has always been excellent cooperation, including in similar cases, between the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
We have also been at pains to take due account of comments and critical suggestions from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and, with that in mind, it is also right to deal with the oral question from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, given the urgency of enquiries on this subject.
You will be aware that the Globalisation Adjustment Fund has a maximum funding amount of EUR 500 million per annum and that it is exclusively for the purpose of providing additional support for those employees affected by globalisation who have lost their jobs and have been affected by the consequences of far-reaching structural changes in world trade patterns.
We have made it clear in the resolution, once again, that we continue to challenge the repeated use of funds from the European Social Fund to finance the Globalisation Adjustment Fund and I insist, Commissioner, that you confirm today, once again, that this will not ultimately be at the expense of payments from the European Social Fund.
I would very much like, once again, to call on the Commission to reiterate today the undertaking given to us in the Committee on Budgets - namely to refrain, in future, from tabling applications for the mobilisation of the Fund together, but instead to table them separately, as each case has a slightly different basis and the possibility of a complicated case delaying the approval of another case should be avoided.
I hope that you can confirm this again today.
When it comes to the circumstances of the two cases, even on the basis of the altered rules - given that these two applications were submitted after 1 May 2009 - we are talking about the mobilisation of a total of around EUR 24 million.
This is intended to provide some cover for the loss of jobs in the textile industry in Belgium and in computer manufacturing in Ireland.
In Belgium, there have been a total of 2 199 job losses in 46 companies in the textile industry, all of which were based in two neighbouring NUTS 2 regions, namely East and West Flanders, and in a single NUTS 2 region, Limburg.
The Belgian authorities have requested EUR 9.2 million from the Fund in this regard.
In respect of Ireland's application, there were, quite properly, a few further follow-up questions from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs that are being discussed or have already been partially cleared up through additional information.
The application relates to 2 840 job losses in the company Dell in the counties of Limerick, Clare and North Tipperary and in the city of Limerick, of which 2 400 were targeted for assistance.
A total of EUR 14.8 million is envisaged for this.
Following an intensive debate in the Committee on Budgets, we gave the green light to the mobilisation of the Fund in both cases.
I would, however, like to remind you of my introductory comment where I requested that the Commission once again take up a clear position on this and I very much welcome the fact that the very fundamental issues of the mobilisation of the financial instruments from the European budget were put on today's agenda by the Committee on Budgets.
I would then ask the plenary session to support this report.
