Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us just imagine for a moment the European regions without the European regional policy.
Many towns and rural regions would lack decisive incentives for structural change.
The border regions with their problems of cross-border workers and cross-border infrastructure would simply be neglected.
Social policy would no longer be able to benefit from European contributions to education and employment policy.
Medium-sized companies would be prevented from taking part successfully in international networks.
Without European regional policy, the communities in the regions would no longer be visible.
For this reason, we are very annoyed by the signals coming from the Commission which include proposals for social programmes without the support of structural funding.
This would turn the Commission into a social monopoly without the regions or would lead to calls for subsidy policy only for the weakest in our society.
This, in turn, would mean that we would completely lose sight of the European context and we would return to the age of renationalisation.
Whether or not the Commission has now made these documents public, the European Parliament will not lend its support to the move that they describe to a regional policy without the regions.
This does not mean that we are closed to the idea of reform.
New challenges relating to the environment, to energy policy or to demographic change must be integrated into our existing subsidy structures.
I am also in favour of making it easier to measure the European contribution to the regions.
We must also impose stricter sanctions on the Member States which consistently fail to demonstrate that they are managing the funds properly.
More regional cofinancing, more loans, more transparency and more efficiency: these are the types of proposals we would like to see for the reform of the cohesion policy.
We will support proposals of this kind, but we will fight every attempt to destroy regional policy.
Reforms yes, renationalisation no!
