Mr President, some of the previous speakers have given details of this legislation which is now before the Ugandan Parliament.
I would like to tell you a brief story.
Around four to five years ago, I was in Kampala and one evening I met a group of lesbians, gay men and transgender people in a pizza restaurant, where the owner allowed the meeting to take place.
On the same evening, a government minister said that raids would, in future, take place on any places where lesbians, gay men and transgender people met.
I was rather worried that evening, as were the Ugandan lesbians and gay men.
Luckily nothing happened, but it marked the beginning of increasing homophobia in Uganda.
Now proposed legislation has been introduced which will not only make homosexuality a crime, as is already the case, but will also make it subject to the death penalty.
So many African Heads of State, including Museveni, have done a lot for their countries, but to say on this basis that homosexuality is un-African is simply wrong.
Homosexuality has existed in all cultures on all continents throughout all periods of history and it will continue to exist, regardless of what legislation is passed.
I am pleased that we have succeeded in introducing a joint resolution supported by almost all the groups, because it is important to express our opposition to the legislation and to support lesbians, gay men and transgender people in Uganda.
We must not allow them to be subjected to hate laws and stand by and say nothing.
We in the European Union have an obligation to uphold human rights all over the world and to remind the members of the Ugandan Parliament that the Cotonou Agreement, for example, states that human dignity and human rights apply to everyone and must be defended by everyone.
I also hope that the resolution that we have presented will be adopted in its entirety, because it is important for organisations which defend the rights of lesbians, gay men and transgender people in Uganda to be supported, including by the European Union.
