Madam President, Mrs Malmström, Commissioner, the fact that Mr Obama and the new majority in Congress are presenting us with a significant opportunity to intensify our cooperation, in particular, with regard to the common transatlantic market, has already been mentioned.
However, this should not be a common market for deregulation, but a common market based on the foundations or on the principles of a social market economy, with sensible and appropriate regulations where these are required.
Mr Brok is absolutely right that this must, of course, have a legislative basis, regardless of whether we are discussing the regulation of the financial markets or environmental and energy policy regulations.
Taking a joint approach in this area would make a major contribution towards shaping global relationships.
One area which has already been touched on and which we could discuss this morning is the central issue of climate policy.
Many of us will be in Washington in the next few days, where we will have the opportunity to hold discussions with our colleagues from Congress.
Although the legislation concerning climate policy has not yet been passed, the representatives of the US Government are at least partly authorised to make binding undertakings, even if the details cannot be finalised until after the US legislative process has been completed.
It is essential that Copenhagen is a success.
It is not the end of a process, but it is an important step in the process of achieving a common climate policy.
We must all ensure that Copenhagen is a success.
It can only be successful if we have binding climate policy objectives.
Finally - and this has also already been mentioned - regardless of our friendship and mutual affection and regardless of our good relationship, there are certain things that we cannot accept.
These include the repeated protectionist measures, for example, in the market for defence equipment, the discriminatory visa policy aimed at some Member States and the visa charges demanded by the US which have already been referred to.
It is important that we talk to the US from a position of equality.
It is important to establish a partnership, but also to explain what we cannot accept, which in this case, is a policy that discriminates against Europeans.
