Mr President, Mrs Malmström, Mr Barroso, on the subject of the Czech Republic, I would first of all like to say that I feel that Mr Klaus is a very bad loser and that his actions represent a particular kind of political impertinence.
I would like to ask you very, very urgently not to respond to a bad loser who obviously does not even respect Czech law, because he does not respect the constitutional majority which voted in favour of the treaty in the Czech Republic and who disregards the legislation in the Czech Republic, when he demands an opt-out for the Czech Republic concerning the validity of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
In my opinion, that would be one step too far in relation to this Czech troublemaker.
The citizens of the Czech Republic, who have done so much for the reunification of Europe when the Germans fled there, deserve something better.
That is all I have to say on President Klaus.
(Applause)
On the subject of climate change, Mr Barroso, you have rarely heard me agree with you as much as I will today.
I am very, very enthusiastic about the fact that you have once again said here how important it is for the Europeans to make a clear commitment to contributing a specific sum to the international fund for climate protection measures for the developing countries.
Yesterday, I was ashamed to read that the German state secretary for finance, who was taking part in negotiations in Luxembourg, compared the negotiations to a game of poker.
He said that when you play poker, you do not tell anyone what you have in your hand.
However, the preparations for Copenhagen are certainly not a game of poker.
As Mrs Merkel and other leading politicians in the European Union have repeatedly said, this is the biggest challenge of all.
This is the most important challenge for the community of people who live together on this planet.
I believe that this must be taken seriously.
From 2020 onwards, EUR 100 billion should be available to help the developing countries to meet the obligations concerning climate protection that they must then take on and to carry out their adaptation measures.
This would amount to around EUR 3 billion from 2020 onwards for a country like Germany.
In comparison to what we are currently making available in economic recovery packages or to rescue the financial sector, this is peanuts.
I am ashamed that failure in Copenhagen and this dreadful, embarrassing poker game are being accepted.
The way in which the European Union negotiated yesterday in Luxembourg demonstrates that it is not the driving force.
It has not taken on the leadership role in international climate protection.
Instead, it is one of the major blocks to progress.
You must realise that all of the negotiations today in Luxembourg and next week in Brussels are being followed throughout the world.
I can only call on Mr Barroso urgently once again to ensure that the Commission stays on course.
The financing for this international fund must be transparent.
We have been talking about this for two years, ever since Bali.
Mrs Malmström, I believe that the Swedes are doing the correct thing in the negotiations.
You must remain consistent and respect the vote in Parliament's Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety.
The objective is to reduce CO2 emissions by 30% by 2020.
If we lower our sights, we will never achieve the two degree goal.
I have a major problem with the credibility of the Swedish Presidency of the Council.
I believe that you should finally convince your state-owned company Vattenfall not to invest consistently and unrestrictedly in coal throughout Europe and, in particular, not to invest primarily where no certificates need to be purchased.
This strategy on the part of Vattenfall goes against your good reputation in the preparations for the world climate negotiations.
I would also ask you to ensure that the legal proceedings initiated by Vattenfall against the Federal Republic of Germany to bring about changes in Germany's environmental law in favour of Vattenfall's coal-fired power stations are dropped.
I believe that unfortunately you have a small, but growing black spot on your otherwise spotless reputation.
You should ensure that everything is in order before you go to Copenhagen.
