Mr President, I would like to welcome Commissioner Kallas and my fellow Members.
Fundamentally speaking, the issue we are about to discuss is not a controversial topic at all.
The matter at hand is the adaptation of information technology in the field of customs and excise.
For many people, this is a terribly technical topic.
However, with respect to the fight against fraud and other crime, it is a very important aspect of cooperation in the field of customs and excise, and the exchange of information.
We have been able to work successfully together with the Swedish Council Presidency, and I would therefore like to thank those who have supported and accompanied us throughout the process, as this dossier is not exactly a new one.
We have demonstrated our cooperation through the fact that Parliament has taken on and voted on in committee significant amendments, which the Council had already proposed in the course of its work.
I therefore also assume that the vote on the matter this week will have a positive outcome.
The only measure on which Parliament does not agree is the extension of Europol's powers in this field.
This view is certainly not reflected in all political groups in this House.
However, it is in the final result of the vote on the report on information technology in the field of customs and excise.
This is, to a certain extent, linked to the debate which was held here previously, when our intention was different, namely to send a signal that, having fairly recently defined a mandate for Europol, under which it was to be an agency, its powers in a number of small and specific areas are being extended or expanded.
To a large extent, it is also fitting, given the importance and role of Europol, that its remit be defined in a mandate such as the one we have decided.
It also promotes transparency, so that not only we, but in particular the citizens, for whom we make policies, know what Europol is allowed or not allowed to do.
Transparency is a fundamental part of any structure involving prosecuting and police forces in the Member States, and this must also apply at a European level.
Other than that, there is not a lot to say, and even though one tends to want to exceed one's speaking time, I can cut mine short in this case.
I would like to thank the Council Presidency and my fellow Members for their excellent cooperation, and I am sure that we will be able to successfully vote on the report this week.
