Mr President, on behalf of my group, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, I would like to make clear at this point that we are deeply concerned about the development of EU foreign policy towards militarisation and an increasingly interventionist policy.
That is a dangerous development.
I want to say, in all clarity, that we believe that a military approach to conflict resolution or to the supposed stabilisation of countries or regions is absolutely the wrong way to go to achieve greater security for the EU and the world.
Military interventions - and Afghanistan, unfortunately, is a very current example of this - bring suffering, death and prolonged devastation, but no peace and no improvement in the situation as far as the resident population is concerned.
The Danjean report lists what are referred to as key threats that constitute a challenge for the EU's future security policy.
One of these is climate change - something that has been overwhelmingly caused by the industrialised nations of the West.
If people in the countries of the South have to take flight because they no longer have any water and food becomes scarcer and scarcer, they will represent a security problem for Europe.
Such a view is cynical and inhuman.
If States collapse as a result of neoliberal economic policy, they will constitute a security problem.
What we need is not more military, it is a change, an end to the European Union's neoliberal orientation.
The European External Action Service, the European Defence Agency, the creation of a crisis management and planning directorate and the planned start-up fund to fund military operations are designed to make the EU a global player in military terms.
We believe that moves towards centralisation in the European External Action Service are a dangerous and undemocratic development.
The EU should assume a leading role in relation to demilitarisation and disarmament, especially in the field of nuclear disarmament.
There needs to be a push for the obligation incumbent upon nuclear States under Article 6 of the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty, which is to say, complete nuclear disarmament, to be honoured at long last.
This was a key promise that constituted the basis on which many States signed the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty and have, as a result, durably refrained from acquiring nuclear weapons.
Reliable guarantees of non-aggression are the best means of preventing proliferation as, otherwise, countries threatened with intervention will attempt to deter such an attack by means of acquiring nuclear weapons.
If nothing else, I would like, in this context, and in particular with regard to Iran, to point out and to warn that military operations or military activities of any kind to prevent proliferation are completely counter-productive and highly dangerous.
We will be rejecting the Danjean report and have tabled our own resolution on the Nuclear Non-proliferation Treaty.
