Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the partnership between the EU and Canada works very well, not only in the area of the economy, but also on questions of foreign policy, such as Iran, Afghanistan, Haiti and other similar cases.
Despite this, we are faced with a number of serious challenges.
I am sure that we can overcome them, because we have such a close friendship and partnership.
I am thinking about five points in particular.
Firstly, we must do the job of regulating the financial sector properly.
A great deal was promised by the G20 and I believe that it is important for it to be clearly shown at the G20 summit in Toronto, which is hosted by Canada, that the G20 countries are taking concrete measures and not just making promises.
My second point has already been mentioned.
We have very similar objectives with regard to climate policy.
We in Europe can definitely learn from Canada about carbon capture and storage projects and other developments in this sector.
We hope to be able to agree on joint standards for reductions.
My third point concerns the need for a new trade agreement and I believe that our objectives are very similar in this area as well.
I would like to highlight two points where action is needed and where we intend to move closer together, but still remain some distance apart.
One of these concerns visa-free travel, which you, Baroness Ashton, have already referred to.
I hope that it will be possible to treat ethnic minorities from EU Member States in the same way as all other EU citizens.
My last point relates to the passenger data agreement which expired in the autumn of last year.
It is de facto still in force, but no longer has a basis in law.
We need a new legal basis, so that we can produce a new agreement.
This new legal basis must ensure that civil rights are respected.
Modern technological opportunities for networking should not be used to make all the information on names, dates of birth, flight details, credit cards, and so on, readily available in such a way that this information can be misused.
We hope that we can work together to create a legal basis which corresponds to our European concept of civil rights.
