Mr President, Commissioner, I wholeheartedly endorse the sensible contributions made by my fellow Members - with the exception of the last one - and I would therefore like to come straight to the most important points.
The report by Mrs von Thun is a very successful example of how we, as the European Parliament, can show that we are serious about actually implementing what we have decided on together with the Council, and this implementation is the job of the Member States.
We, as Parliament, together with the Commission, must therefore pay greater attention in the next few years to ensuring that this implementation is actually successful.
The second thing that his report shows is that the division that the socialists clearly want, namely that they themselves be responsible for the good deeds, for consumer protection and for the protection of workers, while the Commission should keep the internal market under control, will not work.
Therefore, our request, which the report takes up with the internal market test, is that we bring together all of the essential elements that we value in the internal market, and that consumers like and enterprises need, and undertake a clear evaluation.
We do not want to bulldoze workers' rights, but we do want these workers to also be able to buy the products that they value.
We do not want to cause problems for social structures in the Member States, but we do want these social structures to adapt to the future.
This requires a balance, which Parliament needs to find in cooperation with the Commission.
It must not be the case that the Commission is responsible for the problems while Parliament promises the good deeds.
Secondly, the report by Mrs Hedh, which, like all reports that we debate here, has been added to superbly by the shadow rapporteurs, shows that we need to attach just as much importance to consumer confidence as to the confidence of entrepreneurs.
That will be a task for the future, for which a solution can only be found by putting the long-term focus on the goal of the internal market, putting an end to the fragmentation into individual directorates general and different political approaches, and actually seeing the internal market as the grand aim of the European project that we have rather neglected in recent years.
I am very pleased, Commissioners, that both of you are here today and that you will take this impetus for the next five years with you to the Commission.
