Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all of the Member States of the European Union are suffering under the burden of huge debts and from the effects of the financial and economic crisis.
However, they are also suffering as a result of the fact that, for years, high budget deficits - some of which are excessive - have been accepted and tolerated in a large number of countries.
When we start to tackle the new 2011 budget it is not enough merely to reduce the budgets of the Member States.
We also need to undertake a thorough review of the expenditure from our budget and also carefully review new expenditure.
I would mention the European External Action Service, the structure and also the financing of which is still extremely unclear.
There is no transparent structure.
I would also call for cost-efficiency by using the synergies with national external action services.
There must be clear rules regarding responsibilities and a transparent rendering of accounts to the European Parliament, and attempts should not be made to void the European Parliament's codecision and supervision roles in more and more decisions.
The European Parliament is cooperative and will also be supportive in difficult situations.
For this reason, we must also involve the European Parliament in these matters as co-decision-maker.
Furthermore, I think it is necessary for us at last to make the reduction in bureaucracy a reality, for example in agriculture and also for small and medium-sized enterprises, which urgently need to grow and to implement and cope with innovations.
If we want to reduce budgetary deficits, as well as taxes, and increase tax revenues, we need to reduce the burden of bureaucracy on small and medium-sized enterprises and enable innovation, and we must finally reduce the merciless competition exerted by large-scale industry on unpopular small and medium-sized enterprises, and not encourage it.
I also share the view of the Chair of our Committee on Budgets that we first need precise data regarding this budget before we can finally adopt it.
