Mr President, it is definitely not a bad idea to apply the regulations on asylum uniformly in order to reduce secondary immigration within the EU and to support those Member States with a very heavy influx of asylum seekers.
However, there are serious doubts as to whether it is necessary to establish this support office to bring about improvements and whether the office will interfere too much in the powers of the Member States.
Establishing this agency is another step towards centralising EU asylum policy.
The aim is to achieve a high level of protection based on the actions of the most generous Member States, such as Austria.
Existing differences are to be removed, with the more generous countries staying on the same course and the others making the necessary changes.
That is all very well, but establishing large numbers of new EU agencies (the figure has tripled since 2000) and expanding their remit clearly goes against the attempts of the Lisbon Strategy to introduce more deregulation and subsidiarity.
I believe that the widely discussed objective of circular migration - a bit here, a bit there, occasionally somewhere else - is totally wrong.
It does not work in practice and circular migration often turns into permanent migration.
There are, of course, other criticisms that can be made.
Unrealistic conditions for detention pending deportation are put in place at the expense of security and at the expense of our executive.
Extending the concept of the family to cover everyone including grandmothers will result in a further influx and improving access to the labour market in a period of high unemployment is unsustainable.
It will not be possible to finance the extension of basic welfare provision to the same level as countries such as Austria and Germany.
The new asylum support office is therefore not fit for purpose and should not be established.
We must develop a common asylum strategy from scratch, because what you are recommending will not work in the countries that are affected.
