Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) want an agreement.
We want a good partnership with our American friends, above all, in the area of security.
We want a good agreement and we want this agreement very soon.
We should emphasise that this is a time that reflects the spirit of Lisbon as seldom before.
After Parliament's resolution in mid September, after the Council's decisions at the end of November, after the discussions in January/February and after Parliament's clear position in February, we now have a situation that is a good example of cooperation between the Commission, the Council and Parliament.
I would really like to thank you, Commissioner, and also the Council, for this new beginning, that was started primarily by you and Commissioner Reding.
It is an example of what European citizens want in terms of scope for action, of how European citizens want to see us reach solutions together - not just European citizens, but, above all, those who are watching and listening in this House today.
At this point I would particularly like to welcome our friends from the Rhine and Hunsrück and our friends from Austria who are here today.
We in our group are not looking for problems, but fighting for solutions.
I should emphasise that a whole range of excellent proposals for solutions were found that we set out in September's resolution, be it on the issue of bulk data, third countries, duration, terminability, or other matters.
These are the matters we need to negotiate on now.
I am rather surprised by our colleagues from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left who, at the time, refrained from voting on the resolution and refused to contribute, but are now calling for this resolution.
I therefore invite you to come on board.
Help us negotiate and together, we will bring about a good result.
As has been considered here, we should, in future, also work to ensure that we accelerate the development of the TFTP and you have also said that in your statements.
Yes, we will need these instruments and we should keep the schedule exactly as it was conceived by you, so that we can discuss the results of your negotiations here in Parliament before the end of summer and will also hopefully reach decisions.
I believe that the way you have held discussions, including on your action plan that I would like to support wholeheartedly, can continue in this vein on matters concerning the data agreement, Passenger Name Records (PNR), the Schengen Information System (SIS) and other issues.
