Madam President, Commissioner, it is a shame that the Commission's statement and explanation here in this Chamber were not as well received in the press as the things that certain parties here are saying about this regulation.
You hit the nail on the head today: the creation of an integrated rail network for freight transport is, for us at least, absolutely essential and extremely important.
For the companies, it will ultimately lead to a practice that they are not keen on, as past experience has shown.
It is the practice of simply working together with other countries.
We recently talked about liberalisation.
We subscribe to liberalisation together with the Member States, but 21 Member States are managing to do nothing when it comes to rail transport.
We are now talking about freight transport.
We should not normally need to draw up this sort of regulation.
We want to help make freight transport more efficient.
Study after study shows that we need to transfer more traffic from the roads onto the rails, and with every initiative aimed at thinking in European terms with regard to rail transport, there is always one or another company or country that says: no, we do it better and you should accept our rules.
I would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the work they have done together with the Commission and the Council.
We are in favour of this cooperation.
We would stress that passenger transport remains a priority, as laid down in 2001.
We want transparent rules at the outset to prevent haphazard decisions being made in crucial situations.
All of this is intended to give those who profit from passenger transport as well as the infrastructure managers in the country itself all the confidence they need to be involved in this.
But no, they do not want that!
Why is that?
Quite simply because this directive will set a new emphasis that will eradicate certain monopolies, including certain national monopolies.
The rail system of tomorrow cannot work like this.
I therefore hope that tomorrow we will have a broad majority that will vote in favour of this compromise that we have arrived at together, and that the 40 signatures, which mainly come from my group, will not receive the support of the majority.
In any case, I would like to thank you for your work.
