Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the SWIFT agreement was negotiated on the basis of a dubious procedure and quickly pushed through only one day before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to circumvent Parliament.
However, I would like to focus specifically on the content of the agreement.
We have big brother's little sister waiting for our approval.
Mrs Clinton believes that she can persuade the Members of this Parliament to do something which we would not accept from our own governments.
From my point of view, it is fundamentally wrong for alleged terrorism investigators to have such extensive access to databases, because this undermines people's self-determination over their own personal data.
Personal data will be stored for decades and no one will have any control over how it is used.
In addition, the data can still be retained after the agreement has come to an end.
It will not be possible to take legal action to discover the whereabouts of the data or to claim damages for its illegal use by third countries.
This gives the state precedence over its citizens, who will all be reduced to the status of objects of suspicion.
The Member States are allowing other governments to spy on our citizens indirectly via the EU.
To give some examples in Germany, should Deutsche Telekom, Deutsche Bahn or the Schlecker drug store chain still be worried about collecting information on their employees?
Will it now become the norm for the German Government to buy from tax investigators data that has been obtained illegally?
We find ourselves in a situation in which Parliament must stand up for its beliefs and make a decision.
Why should Google be able to set data thresholds in future?
It is important to combat terrorism and, in particular, its causes, and I believe that we all agree on this, but not at the cost of fundamental rights.
In this context, I have heard many speeches which refer to the EU as a community of values.
We are just about to sweep one of these values under the carpet and my group cannot vote in favour of that.
