Mr President, I believe that all members of the Committee on Budgetary Control are agreed on one point, to be precise, the fact that we need solutions for the EU agency system.
For that reason, I would like to propose eleven approaches to a solution.
They could enable us to save EUR 500 million every year, without affecting the quality of administrative performance.
My eleven approaches to a solution are as follows: 1) There needs to be a sufficient primary legislative base.
The Treaty of Lisbon has also failed to create this base.
2) An immediate freeze, until an independent analysis has established the added value of this decentralisation once and for all.
3) The closing of seven agencies and the merging of the administrative tasks of individual agencies.
4) In future, every agency must be the direct responsibility of a single EU Commissioner and, above all, the EU Commissioner for interinstitutional relations and administration should be responsible for horizontal issues.
5) A reduction in the members of the administrative board.
The number of full members should not exceed 10% of the positions or a total number of 20.
6) There needs to be a catalogue of location criteria that must be taken into account when determining the location of agencies - as we have already heard in Mrs Haug's speech, this is urgently needed.
7) EU agencies should be freed from EU Staff Regulations.
8) All agency directors should be elected for a fixed period of time at the proposal of the Commission and only after consulting and after receiving the approval of the European Parliament.
9) A clear performance agreement between the Commission and the agencies with clearly defined quantitative criteria that are summarised by the EU Court of Auditors in an annual performance ranking.
10) All agencies should transfer financial data to a database.
Then it would be quite straightforward for us as budget rapporteurs to do statistical analysis.
Until now that has been impossible, as data comes in paper form.
11) The principle of subsidiarity.
The requirement for justification has yet to be taken into account by the Commission.
So, the solutions are on the table.
Mr Geier, Mrs Gräßle, it is time that you also allowed this solution here in the House.
