Mr President, Mrs Espinosa, last week I attended the Informal Environment Council meeting in Seville.
It was the first Council configuration under the Spanish Presidency.
You were, of course, unable to attend due to an unfortunate family matter, but your Secretary of State, Teresa Ribera, did a splendid job of representing you.
Throughout the meeting, which was extremely well organised, the commitment of the Spanish Presidency to the matter was evident.
That is all well and good, but the result of this Council meeting was not very satisfactory.
The Council of Ministers was divided, with a complete lack of direction.
There is absolutely no agreement among Member States about what we should do now.
That is not a good sign.
It is your job and your responsibility to find the common denominator among the 27 Member States.
In my opinion, we need to do three things in the European Union following Copenhagen.
The first is that we must regain the leading role in global climate protection.
Secondly, we need to show credibility in the commitments that we have made and, thirdly, we urgently need to gain new partners before we get to Mexico.
With regard to regaining the leading role, I agree with everyone here who said that we should continue to state our promise to reduce carbon emissions by 30%.
I would like to see us specify this 30% target to the UN Secretariat in Bonn on 31 January, not the old 20% target.
If we make ourselves dependent on comparable efforts by others, it will take forever and Mexico will also come to nothing.
In terms of showing credibility, the EUR 7.2 billion must actually be realised before Mexico.
The countries in Africa need to be able to see that the first measures are already in progress.
Finally, with regard to gaining partners, I hope that we will develop climate protection diplomacy and, with the help of the African Union in particular, that we will also find sufficient partners, including in Latin America and Asia, for a global agreement in Mexico.
