Mr President, Commissioner, Mr López Garrido, I am delighted that you are here and so demonstrate the Council's recognition of this important debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, we all know this little trick: if you want to embarrass someone, ask them a question with a wording like, do you still actually smack your children?
Even if the person says no, they have implicitly admitted that in the past, they did smack their children.
The discharge report for Parliament by Mr Staes, who I would like to thank for his work, is a critical report, and to me, in some areas at least, it has followed this logic.
Self-criticism is good, but it should then be accurate.
I have had many discussions in my group on how we might reject this or that wording in the report on Parliament's discharge.
Some of us have come under more than a little pressure in our home countries regarding this.
However, I do want to convey to you my answers to these questions as to why we have rejected some wording or other in the report on Parliament's discharge.
There are proposals that are already a reality.
We could re-table them, but why?
There are proposals that are not helpful, such as the idea of making the Committee on Budgetary Control a sort of alternative internal audit authority or an intermediary between the Bureau and plenary.
There are many good proposals in this report that were, however, all adopted.
Then there are proposals in this report that only represent a partial reality, as, for example, in Amendment 26 now on the table.
This amendment demands the establishing of an internal control system in groups of this House.
Nothing should be more obvious.
In the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats, however, this has long been a reality, precisely for that reason.
If my group were to agree to this, we would be acting as if we had some catching up to do.
Therefore, we can, in this example, only agree if this reality is also illustrated in the report.
I therefore propose adding the following phrase to this paragraph: as it is the fact in the S&D Group.
