Madam President, at the moment, our airspace is at a standstill - we know this; it has already been mentioned.
We will soon be discussing how we can remedy this situation.
We may actually have to fear, as regards economic questions in particular, that the airlines will soon face even bigger problems.
Of course, this does not need to influence safety.
This is about aviation safety for European passengers.
For us in Europe, it is a great achievement that people are able to move about freely, and that consumers can decide freely how they want to travel, which air carriers to book flights with and which not.
In order to be able to decide freely, it is, of course, necessary to actually receive the relevant information as well.
Now we have just heard that we have already had this blacklist since 2006, and that in principle, people should be informed as to whether they can arrive safely or not.
For me, the question is really - just as Mrs De Veyrac and Mr El Khadraoui have already said - whether there are actually holes in the system, and whether people really always get all the information on safety that they need.
We simply want everyone who flies here in Europe to be transported safely and to arrive safely.
Finally, another thing that plays a role with regard to safety is to know whether an airline is financially strong.
Airlines must regularly apply to their national authorities to make sure that they are actually allowed to fly in European airspace, and this process involves not just checking whether they actually observe all of their safety obligations, carry out all the required checks and are able to transport people safely, but also checking whether they are financially strong enough to be able to stay in the transportation business in the long term.
As far as I know, to date we have not had a European airline on a blacklist.
Despite this, though, we have actually had the SkyEurope incident just in the last year.
What happened then was that European citizens had booked with a European airline, but had no information on the fact that this company was on the brink of bankruptcy.
They took the flight and were stranded, and so they had no information that would have protected them.
This actually makes me wonder - even if the Commission has said that it has the information and is publishing it, that there is an obligation to publish it - why this, for example, was not known.
Do we actually have a guarantee that everything that passengers need to know, everything that is required, is always passed on?
I would like to have an answer to this generally in the debate.
