Mr President, Commissioner De Gucht, you are inheriting a weighty legacy and if the subject matter was not so serious, I could almost smile at the speculation triggered by ACTA.
However, there are two reasons why I absolutely cannot smile about this.
Firstly, counterfeiting and violations of copyright and trademark law are things that jeopardise both the integrity of the economy and people's health.
The global economic loss as a result of counterfeiting and violations of copyright and trademark law is estimated to have been EUR 185 billion in 2007 alone.
That is significantly more than the European Union's budget.
This jeopardises our businesses, promotes crime and destroys jobs.
That certainly cannot be in our interests.
In addition, counterfeit medicines can have life-threatening consequences for people who take these medicines unaware that they are counterfeit.
That is also an unacceptable risk.
It also goes without saying that it is very much in our interests to take action in this regard.
Secondly, it must doubtless be clear that the European Commission's negotiating mandate should be strictly confined within the framework of the acquis communautaire to ensure that ACTA does not, in future, stand for 'another crazy treaty agreed'.
After the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, this includes providing extensive and ad-hoc information to the European Parliament on the current status of the negotiations on the agreement.
After all, we will be asked to give our approval.
In other words, the European Parliament expects complete transparency and publication of the negotiation documents along with all other relevant papers.
If the Commission wants to avoid further rumours and assumptions surrounding ACTA, I see no other option than for it to provide the interested public with detailed information.
I have three important questions in this regard.
Firstly - even though you have already touched on this - can the Commission guarantee that there will be no introduction of a 'three strikes and you are out' rule?
That would, of course, be contrary to the new Electronic Communications Framework Directive.
Secondly, can the Commission guarantee that there will be no introduction of third-party liability on the part of Internet service providers for the content that they transmit?
That would, of course, be contrary to the e-Commerce Directive.
Thirdly, can the Commission provide assurances that, within the framework of ACTA, no penal measures will be introduced that lie outside the competence of the European Union, and I am very well aware that it will be the Member States that assume the responsibility in this respect.
However, I assume that, as guardian of the treaties, you will do what is expected of you.
