Mr President, Mr López Garrido, Mr Kallas, this flight ban brings us back to the wide-ranging debate on safety which has often taken place in Parliament and in which we have said that we, by which I mean Parliament, and also, I believe, the Commission, could and should introduce regulations in this area on a European level, if the Member States wanted this to happen.
We have often had this debate not only in relation to air transport but also in the context of the railways and other areas.
Therefore, we should today be asking this question of those bodies that are able to answer it: firstly, the aviation authorities in the relevant countries and, of course, the organisation responsible for coordination at a European level.
This coordination has worked exceptionally well.
In my opinion, the top priority is the safety of passengers.
The financial aspect is less important, although we must not lose sight of it.
The individual countries made the right decision.
I hope that in future, Eurocontrol and the national aviation safety authorities will make the decision and not the individual airlines, because we are once again faced with experts who have differing opinions.
For this reason, we must be extremely cautious.
From an economic perspective, it is, of course, a disaster for an industry which is now suffering its third crisis, following 11 September and the economic crisis.
Therefore, we should take measures at a European and not a national level and provide aid packages which are compatible throughout Europe and do not distort the market, as has happened frequently in the past.
Aid is needed, but not only at a national level.
The passengers are now in a situation in which the law as it stands does not provide them with all the help that they might expect.
Justifiably, we have discussed this subject often in Parliament.
However, I assume that the airlines and the other companies affected will make it possible for the passengers to insist on the rights that still remain to them.
For me, the future lies in the single European sky.
I would like to point out that we will be discussing this subject frequently in the European Parliament over the next two years.
