Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that you have recognised that the transition to a green economic development must begin now, because climate change will put the EU's economic successes at risk.
However, what is missing in the Europe 2020 strategy is a link between environmental change in the economy and a green employment strategy.
There are studies which have shown that 8 million new jobs can be created through the energy transition alone.
In the Europe 2020 strategy, we therefore need an initiative for green jobs.
This initiative must be reflected in specific measures and integrated guidelines.
Therefore, we need stable legal and political frameworks, so that investors really do invest in green jobs.
That equally includes establishing links between research and development and the economy, the promotion of innovation clusters and also the opportunity to promote such clusters in disadvantaged regions.
That is what the van Nistelrooij report states and I endorse it.
Although I do not endorse those who would seek to impose demands on regions from above as regards the earmarking programme, the impetus stemming from this report and from the proposals made are nevertheless heading in the right direction and will contribute to the creation of green jobs.
However, in the employment strategy, we must focus equally on shaping the course of transformation towards a green economy, on carrying the workers with us and preparing them for the transition.
I address those words to Commissioner Andor.
Fundamentally, the structure of the employment policy guidelines presented is right and balanced.
Of particular importance is the fact that education has been emphasised as an independent area of focus.
This area offers great opportunities for breaking the cycle of poverty.
It forms a cornerstone for a green employment strategy and is thereby key to the success of the Europe 2020 strategy.
However, we also to need to improve the guidelines.
The employment guidelines have a key role to play and that is to enable us to really exploit the potential of green jobs.
