Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is quite clear - and it has already been stated, Mr Langen - that Greece must do its own homework.
From my point of view, however, it has also been stated quite clearly that there must be solidarity.
Solidarity that helps Greece to accomplish what it has to do.
Whatever the percentages, speculation may not be responsible for the crisis in Greece, but it is to blame for the huge burden that Greece now has to shoulder beyond what is necessary.
That is the crucial thing.
Also, Mr Langen, the Financial Times - a newspaper that is closer politically to your views than to my own - has put it quite plainly: that is the difference between Chancellor Kohl and Chancellor Merkel.
Chancellor Kohl would have said 'Let's solve this problem together with Greece'.
Chancellor Merkel takes flight and says: 'Well, what does the treaty say?
What do the Court of Justice and the German constitution say?'
That is the difference - whether you are politically in favour of the integration of Europe or whether you are always looking back home, or have a foreign minister who says 'We are not going to put the money on the table just yet'.
Nobody has asked for money to be put on the table.
If you always take the populist path and fail to think of the common future of Europe, then you end up with this cacophony.
Or, as another newspaper that is closer to you, the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, says: another day, another proposal.
That applies not just to Germany, but to the European Union as a whole.
The answer, or lack of an answer, that we have given so far is not acceptable.
We need a carrot and stick approach.
Measures are needed in Greece - there is no question about that - and they will be tough, very tough.
However, we also need cooperation at European level, in particular, to prevent such problems arising.
That can only happen - whether in the context of a European Monetary Fund as proposed by Mr Schäuble, or by another means - if we also have European solidarity.
I therefore expect the summit to demonstrate European solidarity in order to create a better future.
