Madam President, Mr Almunia, during this transition period in particular, I thank you for your commitment to your previous mandate and I wish you luck in your new role.
I would also like to extend this wish to your successor, Mr Rehn.
I wish him courage and luck for the important tasks he is taking on.
There are three things we can learn from the present situation.
The first is that what Mr Barroso has presented to us as Europe 2020 is lacking in substance.
It is a long way from being sufficient to create the coherence in the European Union that we urgently need in order to prevent the situation that we are currently facing from occurring again in the future.
This strategy needs substance, and I hope that the scheduled milestones in the next few weeks will provide the opportunity to improve on it.
We urgently need better coordination of economic policy.
The Spanish Presidency is right to emphasise this.
The Presidency should not allow itself to be intimidated in this regard.
The second thing we can learn from the current situation is that some Member States are, of course, in need of modernisation and the figures are surely correct in this regard.
However, there is a need for modernisation in more than one country.
There are also countries that have to do more, because they are able to do more.
I have no doubt that the new Greek Finance Minister, Mr Papakonstantinou, will do an excellent job and I do not know any sincere politicians who would dispute that.
He deserves our trust and we should give him our support.
The third thing we can learn is that the European Union must be armed.
If the markets put the euro area to the test, then Europe must be a position to respond to this and it must be possible for the response to be unconventional.
If there is further speculation against individual countries, we must be in a position to make credit available under average European rating terms.
That will need to be organised.
We can find support for this kind of action in the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would say to the Council and the Commission: be prepared for the need to negotiate.
