Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by talking about the Commission's budget.
The European External Action Service is something that I take a particular interest in.
However, this is not yet included in the budget that the Commissioner is soon to present.
However, the question of how much it will cost is of key importance for us.
I am in favour of us including this service within the Commission, as that is where it belongs.
One thing is clear: what happens in this service will have significant consequences for the budget, including in relation to the multiannual programmes.
We cannot have administration of multiannual programmes outside the Commission.
We cannot allow this under any circumstances.
Our choice of legal construct for this service will be very important, as the budgetary consequences will be directly dependent on this.
For that reason, what is most interesting about this budget is what it does not include.
We very much hope that the Commissioner will soon be able to supply figures to show what the whole thing is expected to cost.
In 2011 - this much is already clear - the areas where we will have the largest expenditure - including for this service - particularly in the administration lines, are the areas where we have the least amount of leeway.
Everything is accounted for, down to the last cent.
I am therefore in favour of us taking an immediate look at the staff regulations for ways to make savings.
I also have a suggestion in relation to special leave for officials and assistants working in the Member States, where travel to their home countries for special leave is based on travelling by rail.
This rail journey basis should be scrapped, with the focus put on airline tickets and flying time instead.
I now turn to Parliament's budget.
Anyone who works in this Parliament - and that, unfortunately, cannot be said of all the Members - needs staff.
I would therefore like to ask specifically that we provide ourselves with appropriate means to enable us to work.
However, I do not think that creating a connection with the buildings is appropriate, because we also have electoral districts and can conclude service contracts.
The Bureau should be so kind as not to trouble the Members on this account.
I have one further request.
The President of the European Council is not yet accounted for in the budget.
It would be nice if we could acknowledge his existence in the budget, too.
