Mr President, honourable Members, it is rare in politics to have an opportunity to present proposals and measures as a win-win situation.
Today, we have just such an opportunity: the forthcoming adoption of the recast version of the directive on the energy performance of buildings.
Buildings are responsible for 40% of energy consumption and for 36% of carbon dioxide emissions in the EU.
Implementing economic measures to reduce energy consumption in the residential sector can make a significant contribution towards achieving our 2020 goals for greenhouse gas reductions and energy saving.
In so doing, we will, at the same time, bolster our energy security and create growth and jobs in the construction industry.
The recast directive on the energy performance of buildings will also encourage a raising of standards in the national codes on energy efficiency in house building and will help consumers to reduce their utility bills.
Energy efficiency is the cheapest way to combat climate change.
I would like to highlight three elements of the recast directive which, from our point of view, represent substantial progress compared with the situation to date.
Firstly, national requirements of new builds and renovations will result in buildings that save considerably more energy.
This directive also covers small buildings with a useable area of less than 1 000 m² as well as minor energy-relevant renovation work, and also the replacement of boilers and windows.
Secondly, the recast version means our citizens will be provided with better information.
Homeowners and tenants will be well-informed, with specific details of the energy consumption and potential energy savings of a building.
This should provide an incentive to the market to realise low-energy houses and carry out renovations on a broad front.
Thirdly, with effect from 2020, all new builds must meet the extremely stringent near-zero energy building standard.
In addition, Member States should draw up national action plans to raise the standard of existing buildings closer to the level of near-zero energy buildings.
For all these reasons, the new directive is a successful achievement of European energy policy.
I would like to thank the Members of Parliament and you, Mrs Ţicău, for your good cooperation in recent months and also for the unusually quick adoption of the directive.
You have already emphasised that the recast version will only be able to realise its full energy-saving potential if it is transposed effectively and quickly and if there are also supporting instruments.
To this end, we need to make better use of existing financing instruments, such as the European Regional Development Fund, which allows 4% of the budget to be used for energy efficiency measures - an opportunity that has barely been utilised by the Member States to date.
In addition, we would like to provide the Member States with financial support for their efforts to transform the building stock.
We are currently preparing - as announced previously in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy - the reallocation of at least EUR 150 million of unused funds from the European Economic Recovery Plan for projects in the area of renewable energy and energy efficiency.
I am sure that Parliament's support today represents an important step.
I would like to thank you all for your good cooperation.
