Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to thank everyone who made their way to the Chamber from nearby or from further away for showing such commitment during the debate.
I would like to thank you, because you have given your broad support to cohesion policy and to the realisation that it allows us to help our regions and the people in the regions.
The Czech Member referred to the saying that help given quickly is twice as effective.
I would say that this is a European insight.
Despite all the difficulties and mistakes, we have adhered to this principle in the initiative.
My brief response to Mrs Schroedter is that you do not need to worry that the control mechanisms will suffer simply because we have standardised the thresholds so that we can evaluate projects, which often cover both areas, in a uniform way.
There are also control mechanisms at local and national level.
This is the concept behind shared management.
We are also governed by other regulations, for example, in public procurement and in the State aid system.
These also involve certain deadlines which we, as regional politicians, cannot simply ignore.
As far as the extension of the N+3 regulation is concerned, I believe that we should take a very restrictive approach.
We should ensure that the rules are not relaxed and that the regions do not think that they can sit back and do nothing.
Instead, they must be committed to using the funds that are available.
Please could you pass on to Mrs Swinburne that there are no indications at all that what she is afraid of will happen, provided that the budget is sufficiently large.
We will be providing the available regional funds to Wales and to all the other regions in future.
For this reason, I do not approve of using the money from the Structural Funds in difficult times to apply apparent sanctions that have no effect.
Thank you once again for your broad support.
I include in my thanks the members of staff of the Directorate-General for Regional Policy who have worked very hard in this area.
