on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner thank you for your statement.
I am very grateful for the initiative by the Spanish Presidency - and this is a very Spanish event as far as I can see - in adopting this series of proposals and leading the way in this regard.
Electromobility must play a key role in future.
However, as we all know, we are still a long way from achieving comprehensive electromobility.
For that reason, we should also not make the mistake of allowing electric-car hype to arise, the claims of which we are not able to fulfil in political terms.
Therefore, we should not abandon our focus on improving conventional means of locomotion, as crude oil will probably continue to fuel our mobility for a long time yet.
The following points are crucial, however.
Firstly, as you and all of the other speakers have said, we need a European strategy for the development of standards.
The United States and China are working jointly on conductive charge couplers.
We must not lag behind in this regard.
We ought to lead the way and should not allow European vanity to take hold.
Are the French quicker, or the Germans or the Spaniards?
We should all pull together and the Commission should certainly take the lead in this.
We need to develop cost-effective, high-performance batteries.
Secondly, we need to extend network-infrastructure coverage to all areas.
For us, that means that we have to focus our subsidy options on this in a more targeted way in the area of cohesion, in the regions and also in the development of rural areas.
Citizens must be able to use electromobility across borders, otherwise they will not use this form of transport.
Thirdly, we must also take electric cars into account in our CO2 emissions calculations.
Car manufacturers that are currently carrying out fleet calculations cannot yet include electric cars.
We need to be able to take these into account in future.
Fourthly, we must provide tax relief on electric cars throughout Europe.
This applies to batteries in particular, which are still the most expensive part.
We need to carry out research in this regard, but we also need to harmonise our taxes.
