Mr President, Mr Rubalcaba, Commissioners, I am pleased that we are not only talking about SWIFT and body scanners today, but also having a general debate on the war on terror, because this is a subject that affects us all.
Looking back, we have to say that terrorism is a real threat to the people of Europe.
We are taking positive action and I would like to extend my sincere thanks to the public authorities.
The people who are responsible for security have done a good job over recent years.
I would also like to thank our partners.
Now we must look to the future.
What will we be faced with over the next few years?
In this respect, I have three specific requests or proposals.
The first concerns cooperation among the authorities in Europe.
Every document comes with a headline emphasising the importance of collaborating and strengthening our cooperation.
These are wonderful words, but nothing has happened in practice.
Once again nothing happened in Toledo with regard to practical cooperation.
There is no lack of action - this has been made clear in Detroit.
What we are lacking is cooperation between the authorities.
That is where the problem lies.
Therefore, I would like to ask the Council finally to do its job in this area and to call on the Commission to put some appropriate proposals on the table.
My second point is that we should investigate our existing legislation with regard to the collection of data and mobile phone data, for example, in the case of the retention of data.
For this reason, you have the support of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) for this evaluation.
After an interval of a few years, it is important to put it to the test.
Thirdly, we have just had a discussion about SWIFT.
I would like to ask the House why our cooperation with the United States has to be organised in this way.
It has to be organised like this because we Europeans are not in the position to evaluate the data ourselves.
Therefore, the question arises as to whether we are self-confident enough to evaluate it ourselves.
This is another thought for the future.
