Madam President, what we have here is more of a global question, specifically that of the principle of subsidiarity and the universality of public social services in the EU as a whole.
However, social housing has been set in the spotlight of this debate on the example of the Netherlands.
This is not a one-off case - tenants' associations and tenants' representatives, in particular, have suspected for years that Europe's focus on competitiveness at the very least restricts social housing in Europe, if not aims to make it completely impossible.
After the need for food and clothing, the need for housing is a basic human need, after all, and for that reason, housing is one of the social public goods, and preventing homelessness is a social challenge.
An expression of this is the fact that in States that are considerate of the welfare of their citizens, either social housing is supported or else housing is individually subsidised based on people's income.
Of course, we now have a special case in the European Union following the accession of numerous eastern, central and south-eastern European countries.
Due to the different structuring of housing provision in the former Western and Eastern parts of Europe, there is a need, especially following the most recent enlargements of the European Union, to compare the structures of housing subsidies and housing provision in the Member States.
As a result of the method of privatisation of housing in many eastern, central and south-eastern European Member States immediately following the political changes and, in particular, as a result of the perceptible shortage of housing in those countries, the European Parliament reacted by making structural funds available for housing in these countries.
Despite that, housing policy continues to always be a reaction to the national, regional and, in particular, local circumstances in each case; in other words, it is a classic case of a policy area where subsidiarity applies, where there is no need for supranational regulation and where no such regulation exists.
For housing as a public social good, market laws can only have a very limited application within the scope of public services.
