Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the President of the European Central Bank, Jean-Claude Trichet, warmly for his very successful work over the last six years.
Of course, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs for submitting a report that has been given majority support.
Mr Rehn, I would like to remind you that you have some huge tasks ahead.
I hope that the Commission finally has the courage to look at the deficiencies of the Stability and Growth Pact in a new proposal.
The model of economic governance led by the finance ministers is not a possible solution in this case, because these finance ministers have failed in the past.
We need a more automated system.
We do not need economic governance under the control of finance ministers.
Instead, we need an automatic system that responds in the case of violations, with the support and leadership of the ECB and the Commission.
This could be the result of the summit.
I would like to make two remarks about what Mr Trichet has said on the euro area.
I very much welcome the fact that you have referred to the need for us to be competitive throughout the world.
This is not just about one euro country competing with another, but about us being able to hold our own against the USA and Asia.
Secondly, the EU has largely succeeded in balancing its accounts, thanks to the countries in surplus.
If that had not been the case, the ECB would have had to put much stricter policies in place.
Thirdly, there are no examples in economic history of countries with a falling population generating long-term growth in the internal market.
They have to export their goods.
As far as Germany is concerned, it made a poor start in the Economic and Monetary Union, but it has caught up and is now an example to many other countries.
That is not sufficient.
We have enough to do ourselves with the budgetary consolidation.
It is important not to underestimate the work involved.
Who came up with the idea of punishing those countries that have largely succeeded and excluding those that have not fulfilled their obligations?
This is not a true European policy.
Therefore, I would like to wish the Commission courage and give my warm thanks to the ECB.
(Applause)
