Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Copenhagen, and following the conference, much has been said about amendments to UN regulations.
I suggest that we change the regulations in this House, so that those people in marginal groups, like Mr Griffin, do not speak at the beginning but right at the end, which is their rightful place in this political spectrum, at least in the first round.
Ladies and gentlemen, of course, Copenhagen was disappointing.
Many of our demands and the expectations of citizens were definitely not met.
I would like to add one thing to what has already been said.
We want an international agreement for emissions from aviation and maritime transport.
Unfortunately, Copenhagen brought absolutely no progress on this matter.
It was not even mentioned in the Copenhagen climate agreement.
That is a disappointing outcome, particularly as we know that every year that we lose will, of course, result in us having to raise our efforts even further.
The later we start, the bolder and stronger our efforts will need to be, and with every passing year it will, of course, become more difficult.
It is like a serious illness, the earlier it is treated, the milder the treatment needs to be.
That is why it is a disappointment.
Nevertheless, we should not look at it from a negative, one-sided viewpoint.
This morning, I was asked whether the subject of climate change was now politically dead in the water.
It is not.
It must continue and that is also what the citizens expect from us.
We should look for the positive things that actually happened in Copenhagen.
I will take two small examples, namely the undertaking by two developing countries, the Maldives and Costa Rica, to become climate-neutral in the next ten years.
The whole world - Europe and the rest of the world - can follow their lead.
These are small States, but if we look at a large State like Brazil, for example, what is happening there is also remarkable.
Therefore, we should analyse our mistakes and not be so arrogant as simply to carry on as before.
However, we should not go round in sackcloth and ashes, either, but join with those in the world who want to make progress in protecting the climate.
The game must no longer be industrialised countries against developing countries, but those countries who have understood what it is all about against the rest of the world, where the latter group, it is to be hoped, will increasingly shrink in size.
