Mr President, Commissioner, thank you very much for the information you have given us but, to be honest, I am not entirely satisfied.
The previous Commission set itself the quite clear objective of liberalising the gambling market.
The European Parliament has made it clear, time and again, that this cannot be the right approach, because it was the European Parliament, rather than Member States, that, for example, removed gambling from the scope of the Services Directive.
We took the view that it is not just any other service, that we must ensure that we introduce safeguards which will protect our citizens from organised crime and that we require clear rules to that end.
Nonetheless, the European Commission continues to bring Member States before the European Court of Justice, and it is time that the Commission ceased this practice as it keeps losing cases at the Court.
You simply have to face this fact.
I would, therefore, welcome it, Mr Barnier, if you put what you have just said, that is, that a different approach is needed in this area, into practice because we cannot proceed with things remaining as they are now.
In response to your point, Mr Harbour, I would argue that the rulings of the European Court of Justice have been very consistent and not at all contradictory.
In its judgments, the Court has stated, time and again, that Member States have the right to introduce clear rules, so that we can truly verify whether or not citizens are protected against crime, and that Member States are not under any obligation to open this market up.
Nor are they under any obligation to allow market operators from other Member States to operate on their territory, as long as they make sure that their controls are strong and effective.
That is what we want to see from the European Commission, that it has finally grasped this and acted accordingly.
However, this also means that we have to pay particular attention to online gambling, because the Internet does not recognise any barriers or borders and, of course, because our citizens have access to gambling sites.
We need to think about how we can shape controls and rules in this area, so that our citizens are protected.
