Mr President, on behalf of my group, I would firstly like to thank Commissioner Dalli for his promises and explanations that in 2011, he plans to undertake a revision of the Package Travel Directive dating from 1990.
In terms of timing, it fits exactly in the current window, which we should use, because in the area of package travel, there is a whole range of issues when consumers are not properly informed about their rights.
For example, on many websites, they are seduced into booking further offers through additional links, although these offers are not subject to the same protection mechanisms as the original ones.
Here we are talking in particular about offers from low-cost airlines.
Secondly, in most Member States of the European Union, these low-cost airlines make the service of judicial documents impossible so that consumer protection is greatly hampered, exactly where consumers actually want to defend themselves legally.
This absolutely must be changed with a new proposal for a directive.
Thirdly, we must also ask ourselves whether the rights of air passengers and the rights that are in force pursuant to the existing Package Travel Directive should, in the long term, be transferred into a common document, to eliminate contradictions between components of both legislations.
Fourthly, I believe - and this is something you have pointed out - that the assessment of the work of travel agents that varies from country to country also means that the cross-border provision of goods and services is being made very difficult for travel agents.
In some countries, travel agents are liable just like package tour operators; in other countries, like mine for example, travel agents are only intermediaries.
Here it would be preferable if, Europe-wide, we could at least agree on principles to facilitate the cross-border work of these travel agents.
Due to the increasing use of the Internet by consumers, package travel deals on the Internet should, in future, also be labelled as such, so that abuse here, too, remains impossible.
