Mr President, as a previous speaker rightly said, it is important that passengers' rights are protected in Europe, regardless of what mode of transport they are using.
It is simply a logical conclusion for us to move from air and rail transport to passengers' rights on ships, buses and coaches.
Yet another speaker has already mentioned the fact that we have unfortunately not succeeded in dealing with both subjects as a package, as we had originally planned.
Although we were able to reach a compromise on the rights of passengers on ships and complete the trialogue, this was sadly not the case with bus and coach transport.
I would like to look specifically at the rights of bus and coach passengers, because I am also the shadow rapporteur in this area.
I very much regret that we have not managed to achieve a compromise, because in the trialogue meeting, we were able to bring the position of the Council, on the one hand, and the positions of the European Parliament and the Commission, on the other, much closer together.
We were concerned - and this is also very important - about protecting passengers' rights; above all, we wanted to ensure that people with restricted mobility and with disabilities can always make use of transport, including buses and coaches.
A range of measures are needed to make this possible and this is what we have been calling for.
I believe that this is particularly important because in future, there will be more people with disabilities and restricted mobility, simply as a result of the ageing population.
This is a very important point.
Of course, we must also take into account the fact that consumers' rights involve having an offering available.
In particular, those small and medium-sized companies which provide coach trips are not able to do everything.
For example, they cannot provide unlimited compensation.
There is also the question of how they will cope with advance payments.
We managed to bring our positions closer together in this area and this is why I regret the fact that we have been unable to reach an overall compromise.
As the rapporteur said, it is important that we consider both passengers' rights and the options open to transport providers.
I would very much like to see some sort of agreement reached during the forthcoming mediation process, because I agree absolutely with Mr Simpson when he says that the exclusion of buses and coaches is unacceptable, given that other means of transport are covered by the regulation.
