Mr President, firstly, I would like to comment on the meetings with the experts and the US ambassador.
In the two meetings which I chaired, I did not feel in any way as if I were being regarded as a little person from Europe, quite the contrary.
During these meetings with the experts from the US, I learnt a huge amount about the very different legal systems relating to the protection of fundamental rights in the US and in Europe.
I am grateful to the Americans for taking part in this far-reaching dialogue.
The nature of the task which lies ahead of us has become clear to me.
The Council has not done this task justice in the past.
The nature of the task facing the Europeans has also become clear to me, if we want to combine an effective fight against terrorism and effective protection of fundamental rights in the same agreement.
I actually find it embarrassing that people have had to come across the pond to explain this controversial area to us and that the Council has not so far been able to have an honest debate of this kind with Parliament.
The rapporteur has made it entirely clear in which areas fundamental rights, which enjoy the highest levels of protection in Europe, will be breached.
I would like to make an additional point that I regard as a major problem from a legal and political perspective, if we look at the issue in more detail.
The US and Europe have completely different definitions of terrorism and this is a problem which pervades this agreement.
As has rightly been said, the Members of this House are accountable to the citizens of Europe for ensuring that their rights are preserved.
In my opinion, we should not vote for an agreement which many of us, including Mr Weber, Mr Langen, who is not here at the moment, and Mr Schulz, have said repeatedly in public is in breach of current law.
We must take action now.
We have told the citizens of Europe in the course of the public discussion that we would do so.
We must vote against the interim agreement and we must not postpone our vote.
Parliament must not evade its responsibilities again as it did in November.
Then we had the option of bringing everything to a stop, but the majority did not want to do so.
Now we must take action and - I am saying this after the consultations with the Americans - this will put us in a better negotiating position and on an equal footing, which will enable us to improve security and the rights of citizens in the European Union and perhaps even in the US.
