Mr President, Vice-President of the Commission and High Representative, as this Parliament's rapporteur on Kosovo, I am very pleased to have heard you say that you consider the Western Balkans to be a focus of European foreign policy and that the European Union cannot afford to fail.
You also said, however, that Bosnia has stabilised.
Baroness Ashton, in the current state in which Bosnia finds itself, stability and stabilisation are actually dangerous.
Not everyone is able to take part in the democratic process.
The constitution, as it currently exists - the Dayton constitution - was a sign of stability in the 1990s, but it is no longer that today.
What kind of strategy do you, do we, as the EU, have to change that?
You said that you have a strategy for Bosnia.
That is handling by the Office of the High Representative - but where is the EU's strategy?
I would like you to tell me that.
I think that the EU still needs to develop a strategy in this regard.
When it comes to Kosovo, you described EULEX as a success.
That is only partially true.
There is still much to be done here, for example, visa liberalisation for the citizens.
Baroness Ashton, I call on you to ensure that the Commission immediately starts work on a roadmap in order to make it clear to the citizens of Kosovo that they will not be left on their own.
Unfortunately, you did not answer a question posed by Mrs Brantner.
A dedicated department, a dedicated Directorate-General for peace-building within the External Action Service, would be the order of the day.
You agree with us that peace-building is important, but will you anchor it in the External Action Service?
Will you set up a dedicated Directorate-General for peace-building?
That would be necessary to make it clear where the European Union is heading.
When it comes to Mr Danjean's report, I am very pleased that the committee accepted that further developments in the European security and defence policy fully respect the neutrality and the non-aligned status of some Member States.
This means that they themselves decide where, when and how they participate and provide assistance.
