Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, counterfeiting, smuggling, and the violation of intellectual property rights doubtless pose a huge problem, first of all, for us as the European Union as a whole, but also for many Member States.
It is a problem for entrepreneurs, workers and consumers that more and more counterfeit products are also finding their way onto the European internal market.
We now estimate that counterfeit goods to the value of around EUR 250 billion are flooding our market.
In the best case scenario, if a medicine like the contraceptive pill is counterfeited and does not work - as has recently been said at an event - a woman would simply become pregnant.
However, in the worst case scenario, if the medicine does not work, it can be a matter of life and death, and that cannot be in our interests.
We urgently need to do something about the violation of intellectual property rights, smuggling and counterfeiting.
It is unacceptable that, in 2008, we confiscated 178 million counterfeit articles at our borders, 20 million of which were dangerous, with more than 50% of these articles coming from China.
Therefore, we must take action in this area.
The problem is clear: the Treaty of Lisbon entered into force on 1 December.
Negotiations regarding ACTA have been going on for three years and therefore we, as the European Parliament, were not nearly as involved in the past as we need to be in the future.
I therefore hope that, in the next few weeks and months, we definitely attain more transparency in this area.
We need access to data that clearly tell us what is happening at the moment in the negotiations and what position the European Commission is adopting.
The negotiations must continue.
We need the successful conclusion of an appropriate agreement.
The points of criticism from the various groups are sufficiently well known in this House.
In the interests of workers, employers, industry and consumers, I hope that we reach a meaningful conclusion, but that in arriving at this conclusion, we take account in the negotiations of the existing acquis communautaire and do not go beyond it.
