Mr President, I would like thank all my fellow Members and the Commissioner for the debate.
I have six basic comments.
The first concerns the impact assessment.
The Commission has presented an exhaustive impact assessment of this Commission proposal and has also submitted it to the Committee on Legal Affairs.
After the Sterckx report was concluded in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, in the Committee on Legal Affairs, we specifically asked what additional impact assessment should then be carried out.
We waited weeks, but did not receive a reply.
Secondly, it is, in fact, completely correct that the compromise provides for minimum provisions.
It is by no means a removal of all obligations, but a reduction of the obligations to what is really necessary, to what the enterprises need.
Thirdly, anyone who needs such accounts for a bank loan is not prevented from having such accounts drawn up.
However, if micro-entities do not need such a bank loan at all, then viewed objectively, it is incomprehensible why they should be burdened with these extra costs for accountants and tax advisors.
Fourthly, the tax balance sheet provisions remain the same and are not affected by this at all.
This is exclusively about regular balance sheets and the additional costs that arise through drawing up a regular balance sheet.
Fifthly, revising the fourth and the seventh directives is no small task; it is quite a major task.
The seventh directive also concerns mergers.
That is highly complex and very difficult.
I would dare forecast that if we fail to take this decision now, then with a major revision of the fourth and seventh directives, there is an acute risk that small and medium-sized enterprises would go under because they will not really play a role in this debate, because their lobby will also not play a part in this debate.
That is why it is important to take this decision now and not at a later date, when we no longer know whether it will work at all.
My sixth comment relates to the position of business associations.
I know that of the large European business associations that represent the interests of SMEs, only one is against.
All the others are in favour.
At this point, I think we should make that clear once more.
