Mr President, first of all, I would like to thank the Commission and my colleagues in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy for exciting and interesting debates on nuclear waste management.
We did not always agree, but one thing on which we did agree is that we should provide joint European support to Bulgaria for meeting the costs of decommissioning the four reactor units in Kozloduy.
At this point, I would like to strongly re-emphasise that in 2006, Bulgaria received EUR 340 million, in the 2007-2008 period, EUR 253 million, and in 2009, EUR 89.5 million.
In tomorrow's vote, we will be deciding on further solidarity contributions amounting to some EUR 300 million.
This contribution is being granted because, when negotiating accession to the European Union, the Bulgarian Government agreed to decommission these reactors as a result of the security deficiencies of the Kozloduy plants.
In my report, I have sought to bring about a change to the final tranche of this payment that we are now deciding (I assume this is the final tranche).
I propose that the money which is no longer directly being spent on decommissioning and waste management, that is, waste strategies for temporary storage, in Kozloduy, and we are talking about some EUR 120 million, at least be partly invested in the planning and preparation of the final disposal solution for highly radioactive waste in Bulgaria.
In other words, I propose that we set up a fund for this task which Bulgaria has not addressed at all to date.
While I have not been successful in rallying the majority in the committees behind this idea, I do think that this is an important matter.
I have submitted amendments again for two things to be retained in the compromise solution that is being negotiated by the committees for tomorrow's vote.
First of all, as regards decommissioning, waste management and final disposal, which also includes temporary storage, I would ask that the Commission very closely monitor the exact cost of what is happening in Kozloduy and how much money we will actually need to ensure decommissioning, waste management and final disposal are carried out thoroughly and according to high safety standards.
The second thing I would like us to ensure is that the money which is now being sent to Bulgaria is not used for investment in coal or lignite.
That has not been ruled out in the current draft of the report adopted by the committee.
For the rest, I am pleased that this report will usher in a lively political debate, as it were, with Commissioner Oettinger about the final disposal of nuclear waste in general and one that will hopefully move things forward.
The directive has been announced and I eagerly await it.
