Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, Commissioner Dalli, ladies and gentlemen, today we are talking about the internal market, consumer protection and the mobility of people within the European Union.
These are the key issues when we are discussing these three instruments and they are what I want to address in particular.
Bringing these three topics together provides a very great advantage for us today, because the economy and the rights of consumers and workers are not intrinsically opposed to one another; they need to be brought together.
This is something that we need to make progress on for the future.
That is why it is good that we are having this joint debate today.
In order to make this a reality, we need, above all, to bring three political principles to the fore.
Firstly - and Commissioner Barnier put this very well earlier - protectionism, which is still very much in evidence in the national governments of the Member States, needs to be overcome.
That is something we need to do in any case and it is on the agenda.
The second political principle is that we must guarantee a high level of protection of the rights of both consumers and workers.
In other words, the internal market does not mean the abolition of rights and it does not mean deregulation.
It means ensuring that we preserve our very high level of common rights in these areas.
For this reason, there is one paragraph in Mrs von Thun Und Hohenstein's report that we do not agree with.
This concerns the so-called Internal Market Scoreboard or internal market test.
This is the wrong approach.
It gives the impression that the only important thing is how the market is functioning.
That is not the case.
We need to ask what impact the European Union legislation will have on the rights of workers and on the rights of consumers.
We therefore reject this concept, because it is the wrong one.
Thirdly, we need good enforcement of these rights at European level.
For this, we need a system of collective redress so that consumers do not stand alone in this internal market, but are also able to really assert their rights.
