Mr President, thank you Commissioner Kovács for your excellent work.
Administrative cooperation between EU Member States in tax matters, which is my remit, is an ambitious project.
It is necessary because tax evasion is no mere peccadillo.
It affects countries across borders.
We have to work together to fight tax fraud and dubious tax havens.
The view of the Member States that not everything can be solved at European level is a blatant error.
Exploring the possibility of purchasing illicitly acquired data on fraudsters, which is legally problematic and an issue which we in Germany have been grappling with, should not be our only course of action.
It may well be though that such purchase is necessary.
In this directive, I welcome, firstly, the planned automatic exchange of information between tax authorities; secondly, the enhanced procedure for the mutual exchange of staff between administrations; and thirdly, the urgently needed measure to relax bank secrecy laws far beyond the EU.
Admittedly, we need to remove some obstacles, particularly the clash between data exchange, on the one hand, and data protection, on the other.
We need to strike a balance between the two and not allow one interest to prevail over the other.
Furthermore, cross-border dual taxation should be a subject of greater focus.
I have spoken to a series of small and medium-sized enterprises operating simultaneously in different Member States.
They say that the situation is far too complicated and that there is not enough transparency and experience, which is why they find themselves unable to take the right investment decisions.
We have to consider that.
We also need to reduce red tape and pay greater attention to what is actually necessary, so that tax administrations can help us work more closely together and simplify our procedures.
If we can achieve that, if we can embed such simplified procedures into the everyday lives of businessmen, we will be making clear progress.
This directive is an essential statement of our intention to do that.
