Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 24 years, it is time to update and adapt the directive on the principle of equal treatment between men and women engaged in an activity in a self-employed capacity.
Two years after the Commission presented its proposal, the Spanish Presidency has now negotiated a workable and acceptable compromise with our rapporteur, Mrs Lulling.
Naturally, it is not everything we could have wished.
More regulation and more insurance obligations were a matter of debate.
We had to resolve the matter of how strict the constraints should be or can be as regards the necessary social protection for women in self-employment and, in particular, assisting spouses, most of whom are women.
If women are assisting in small and medium-sized enterprises, then they must at least have their own protection.
This must also come from the enterprises themselves, however.
As we know, self-employment represents an opportunity, but also a risk - particularly as regards the level of income, which often fluctuates.
However, it is not only by private means that the risk of basic social protection can be covered.
Each person in society should take responsibility for their own protection - to the best of their ability - in order not to become a burden on society and to be covered for all the situations that arise in life.
I am pleased that the proposal covers all those in self-employment and is not limited in scope to those engaged in farming.
The Member States can decide which path to take - whether they want to make this cover mandatory or voluntary.
That is subsidiarity.
The 14 weeks' maternity leave for self-employed women is a good decision; it will place these women on an equal footing with those in employment, and provides sufficient time for the healthy recovery of mother and child.
This new directive is a major step towards equality and represents an important reduction in risk for men and women who take on the challenge of self-employment.
I would like to thank everyone who contributed to it.
