Mr President, Mr López Garrido, ladies and gentlemen, this whole debate was, of course, initially coloured by the frustration and irritation that many people in the European Parliament felt because we had the impression that, once again, things were being rushed through in the Council before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
For that reason, I am now thankful that the Council has realised that it is good to consult Parliament, to now apply the new Treaty of Lisbon in the ratification process and also to give us the opportunity to assess whether this agreement is to be applied or not.
In this legislative process, if we now start it, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will apply clear decision-making criteria.
There are two sides to the coin.
On one side, we as the PPE Group hold the clear principle that for European data - wherever this is stored - European data protection standards should apply.
We hold the principle that we want a right of appeal for people who feel they have been unfairly treated in being subjected to data checks.
We hold the basic principle that data should be passed on only in individual cases and only if the person is suspected of something, not simply as a general rule.
These are things that we regard as important.
On the other side of the coin, there is the fact that we, of course, want cooperation with the United States.
We want to cooperate with our partners in the fight against terror.
We do not want a situation in which individual states - if agreements expire - are put under particular pressure, like Belgium for example, because then states might start to operate on a bilateral basis.
Careful consideration is also needed here.
As the PPE Group, we will give consideration to this when the legislative proposal is presented.
I would ask the Council and the Commission once again not to play for time, but to send the text now so that we can deal with it.
As Parliament, we are capable of working quickly and we will be able to deal with this quickly.
Then it will be up to the ministers - and just to make this very clear: the interior ministers - to convince Parliament that these methods that are now being proposed in this agreement really are necessary for the fight against terror.
We are open to this process, but the task of convincing us is still to be done by the executive, in other words the ministers.
