Mr President, Commissioner Dalli, I would firstly like to give you a warm welcome on behalf of the ALDE Group.
You have already said that you are planning a revision of the directive we are talking about.
We can indeed be glad that we live in Europe, as in Europe in the European Parliament, we can even discuss how we can go away on trips with ferrets and other pets.
That was the previous debate and I was delighted and proud to be a European because we can even regulate something like that for the protection of consumers and animals.
Now, however, we are talking about people travelling.
That is an important right in Europe.
We want mobility and freedom of movement for people and we have considered how we can ensure that.
Twenty years ago, we had the directive regulating package tours, so that you could say to yourself 'I can go and explore other countries, see the beauties of other countries in Europe and know exactly that my rights protect me'.
I will be informed in advance on what to expect, I will not be misled, the information must be right and if something does not work, I will receive compensation.
That was 20 years ago.
As you said, Commissioner, a lot has changed since then.
Now people are frequently booking on the Internet themselves and that then leads to loopholes in the system.
Six months ago, we in the Transport Committee put a question to the Transport Commissioner because in the context of SkyEurope in Slovakia, we had the case of passengers with low-cost flights being stranded and not being transported further.
Here it was actually a matter of a small loophole, which only affected those who had booked on the Internet without a credit card, but we do want people to be able to move freely in Europe, so that they can actually enjoy their holidays and are protected at the same time.
That means if we have loopholes in the system in terms of consumer protection and if we want to have a high standard of consumer protection for people in Europe, then we need a revision of this Package Travel Directive and we must also consider whether is it necessary - as my fellow Member has already mentioned - to have a special regulation for air passengers.
We still have to discuss this and I am already looking forward to this with great expectation, as we want to be able to travel happily and safely, not just with animals, but, of course, also with our families.
