Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a warm welcome to all the fishermen and -women in the Chamber!
Today's vote represents a milestone for the European Parliament.
For the first time since the ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon, we have the opportunity to express our opinions on the reform of the common fisheries policy (CFP).
In the next few years, our power and our responsibilities will increase significantly.
This report is acceptable and I would like to thank Mrs Patrão Neves and Mrs Andrés Barea for their hard work.
We have succeeded in incorporating important social democratic concerns into the report.
These include specific support for small-scale fisheries.
Those affected will now be included in the decision-making process.
Support must be given in particular to small family businesses.
Their presence in the coastal regions not only provides jobs, but also increases the attractiveness of many of these regions for tourists.
Some parts of this report still need improvement and we have tabled amendments for that purpose.
We social democrats want to make it clear that one of the central problems is the outstanding overcapacity.
It is a fact that environmental sustainability is a fundamental prerequisite for the economic survival of fishermen.
Therefore, the environment must take priority.
A third important point concerns the external aspects of the CFP and the partnership agreements with third countries.
We move that paragraph 121, which puts undue emphasis on the interests of European fisheries, should be deleted.
We should behave outside European waters in just the same way as we do at home.
This means promoting sustainability, human rights and democracy throughout the world and ensuring that the income from partnership agreements does not disappear into the coffers of corrupt dictatorships.
Finally, I would like to make one more fundamental point.
European fisheries policy is a hot potato, because it involves so many powerful national interests.
It will come as no surprise that these have led to heated debates within the groups in recent weeks.
Fortunately, we have all succeeded in finding effective compromises.
However, when it comes to the legislative process, we must focus more closely on this issue than we have today and come up with some common European solutions.
We must leave the trivial problems of national greed to the Council.
