Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, Baroness Ashton, we listened attentively to what you had to say.
Unfortunately, we must observe that we will probably have to wait for some time yet before you develop plans for specific future projects from your essay on your principles, which we actually feel able to support.
Allow me to say a few words about the External Action Service, however, about which I really had expected to hear something much more tangible from you.
You repeatedly said that it is about coherence, which is the order of the day.
In many cases, we need joint plans and programmes from the External Action Service and the Commission.
Anyone who is in favour of leaving numerous policy areas to the Commission or the Council Secretariat should be honest and admit that he or she is in favour of the status quo, of the system under the Treaty of Nice.
For us, an important first point is to what extent we are able to achieve a majority on all the issues relating to civil crisis prevention, civil crisis management and reconstruction.
In our view, this is all about the things that are covered by the term peace-building, which is to say, conflict prevention, early warning, conflict mediation, reconciliation and short to medium-term stabilisation.
We need a corresponding organisational unit for that purpose and so we are proposing the creation of a 'crisis management and peace-building department'.
I would therefore like to ask you your position on the creation of such a department.
At this point, I would also like to really emphasise that we support both the common foreign and security policy (CFSP) budget and the Instrument for Stability being incorporated into the External Action Service, yet not as part of, and subordinated to, the Crisis Management and Planning Directorate (CMPD), but instead, in a new structure which I hope that you will create.
I would like to hear your position on this.
A second point that is important to us is the connection between the traditional foreign policy areas and new areas such as energy policy, climate policy, justice and internal affairs.
What structures are you planning in order to give the External Action Service systematic access to these global policy spheres of the EU and its Member States?
There is one more point that is important to us: this must be a modern service with a balanced staffing policy.
This week, we celebrated 8 March.
It is thus absolutely clear that we believe the rights of women must be firmly anchored in this service and that women must participate in it.
Baroness Ashton, a number of female MEPs have written to you to ask that you ensure that, from the very beginning, UN Resolutions 1325 and 1820 are implemented in the institutional structures of the service.
So, my question in this connection, too, is: what are your plans in this regard?
As I said, you have our support en route to a sound common External Action Service.
I look forward to your answers.
