Mr President, in the financial year 2008, payments to the tune of around EUR 5 billion were made in areas of policy that the Committee on Foreign Affairs is responsible for.
In retrospect, the continued underfunding of category IV is clear.
The Court of Auditors established some inaccuracies and considers the Commission's supervision and control system for external aid, development aid and pre-accession aid only partially effective.
The Commission refers to the specific, purely annual approach of the Court of Auditors that can only ever evaluate part of the Commission's work and claims the reason lies in the multiannual character of most programmes and their related control systems.
The important thing in my view is that the Court of Auditors is not talking about fraud or embezzlement.
It is much more about handling the EU's external aid carefully, promptly and as effectively as possible, as well as about detailed documentation and accountability, since it is annoying when projects are not completed on time or there is a lack of clarity about their outcome.
It jeopardises the success of our foreign policy.
The fact that the Court of Auditors has established that error rates are in decline is therefore praise for the work of the previous Commission in external aid, in development cooperation and in enlargement policy.
Obviously, amendments to the legal framework are also beginning to have an impact.
The special report on pre-accession aid for Turkey provides the first references to improved control of the use of funds that has become possible since 2007 through the new Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance.
Future accounts reports and reviews must indicate how responsibly and successfully recipients handle EU aid.
We must be able to adapt our foreign policy flexibly, so that we can defend our external policy interests effectively.
We therefore call on the Commission to proceed with the improvement of financial regulation, the new financial framework, budget reform and, above all, with the development of the European External Action Service.
All in all, I can, however, recommend discharge for the financial year 2008 for the area of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
