Madam President, honourable Members, I raised the issue of how the Commission wants to evaluate the information that it obtains from the Member States in the context of this regulation.
Our analyses will firstly look at the anticipated development of the infrastructure in terms of the expected changes in demand.
We will consider whether the new capacities that are expected will match the forecasts of future demand or whether we can expect shortfalls.
In this regard, unlike in the current regulation, it would seem important for institutional talks on these subject areas to be introduced.
The Commission therefore proposes, firstly, to publish a report every two years on structural developments in energy infrastructure.
This is intended to help to improve transparency for all market operators.
Secondly, we also want a political debate with Parliament and the Member States in order to draw conclusions from this.
I would like to emphasise that last point, because one thing is clear: the regulation itself is an instrument for collecting and gathering information in order to show us if any action needs to be taken.
How we go about this needs to be dealt with in the context of specific energy policy initiatives.
This brings me to the point, Mrs Vălean, that is of interest to you and to the entire House, namely the new Article 194 of the Treaty of Lisbon and its application.
For all of us - Parliament, the Council and the Commission - this article represents both an opportunity and an obligation to shape EU energy policy in close cooperation - in other words, together with the European Parliament in particular.
As the new Commissioner for Energy, I would therefore like to involve this House extensively in all future policy measures as far as possible and at an early stage.
However, the legal act to which today's debate refers only concerns the collection and evaluation of information in the energy sector and therefore is based, according to the Commission's interpretation, on Articles 337 and 187 of the Euratom Treaty.
The content of the regulation complies with both of these articles of primary law and, in accordance with case law, the choice of legal basis for secondary law must be linked to measurable criteria relating to content.
No energy policy is established by the collection and evaluation of information alone, which is why, in my view, a decision is needed here.
I beg your indulgence in this regard.
