Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard it said many times today that women in Europe continue to suffer inequality in the workplace.
Yet, their employment rate increased from 51% in 1997 to 58% in 2007.
Today, women are highly qualified, but the number of women in executive positions has remained unchanged over the past few years, and yet the number of female students enrolling in economics, business and law is higher than that of male students.
We must recognise that, in 2007, 31% of women were employed in part-time jobs, which is four times as many as men.
On average, women earn 17.4% less than men, they are at the greatest risk of poverty and, especially in old age, they are hard hit not only by loneliness and a reliance on care, but also poverty.
We have to change that.
Women in business, women at work - that is what we clamour for.
We call for special arrangements, for parental leave and maternity protection to be put on the same footing, and somehow we have achieved the opposite: women are too expensive and so do not get the jobs.
It is the economy that is coming up with all the solutions.
The actual injustice of that situation lies in women's inferior position and the fact that there is little recognition for their family and housekeeping duties.
Commissioner, you have just said that you would like a cost-benefit analysis of this situation to be carried out, but you cannot calculate this any more than you can pay for it.
We must recognise that mothers and fathers would be happy to choose looking after their families if this were not regarded as inferior and if it were not generally disadvantageous to career progression.
People who do family work do a very important job in society, because they generate our future; they acquire skills, and even empowerment, for their future occupational activities as well.
Therefore, the economy should be working to support families and women.
Rethinking how our societies work is much more urgent than establishing new European monitoring centres and institutes.
