Madam President, Commissioner, first, I would like to thank the rapporteur, as well as the other groups, for their work.
We had an interesting discussion in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
I am, however, of the opinion that we have already made many compromises with the Council, which has shown itself to be very unwilling to compromise here, just as it has in the past.
For when we start to talk about implementation, that is when the discussion gets going.
Here, we as Parliament should also expect the support of the Commission for the idea that security charges will apply to all airports.
We should not repeat what we have already done in other areas - whether ground handling or aviation charges - that is, to allow for exceptions affecting two or five million passengers.
The second thing, and this is even more important for me, is, of course, to ensure transparency for passengers - who pays how much for what - and that is unequivocally a duty for the airports as well as the airlines.
This is quite an important consideration in my view.
With that, I come to the third point, payment - an area in which there are always sticking points, of course.
With regard to financing, personally, I am of the opinion that public security should be paid for with public funds.
We are already compromising by leaving some things to so-called subsidiarity.
This is always an effective trick here in the House, and also together with the Commission: if you cannot get a solution with the Council, then you simply call it a question of subsidiarity.
Personally, I am not very happy about that, but there we are.
Therefore, I think we should at least stick to what we have said here, namely that special measures, stricter measures, must definitely be paid for from the public purse.
Security charges and security overall have increased significantly in recent years.
Therefore, this dossier also has an economic aspect.
We are now talking about around 30% of the costs.
If we are talking about security and who pays for it, that will have an economic aspect tomorrow as well.
Therefore, these three points are crucial for me.
I hope that, at least with the current requests, we will get a positive result with the Council and the Commission.
