Madam President, I would like to say to Mr Ehrenhauser that he should pay a visit to our universities and see for himself how creative they are and also that no student is in a position of dependence just because he or she might have been granted a bursary from business.
That also applies to Mr Repo and Mrs Vergiat.
We should focus on making sure that cooperation between education and business takes into account small and medium-sized enterprises, in particular.
We also need to ensure that SMEs are given better, faster and less bureaucratic treatment in the context of research programmes.
That is important and has also been stated in this report, Mr Ehrenhauser.
If you had read that, you would have realised this is something totally new.
Therefore, what we need in this area is enhanced cooperation when it comes to universities and SMEs.
We need this cooperation at local, national and international level.
If business and universities cooperate, we cannot assume that one will necessarily learn from the other, because one is training those whom the other might someday employ in their company.
In this respect, we should ensure that money can flow from business to universities, because public authorities have less and less money and cannot afford to make additional resources available in these areas.
I am grateful to every business entrepreneur and to small, medium-sized and large businesses that provide money for education because what they are doing, ultimately, is educating the next generation which will further promote economic growth.
We must support universities.
We need to ensure closer cooperation between public institutions and the private sector and provide scope for private innovation funds.
This report therefore strikes precisely the right chord.
Obviously, we also need people to be trained by those who know what it means to have an entrepreneurial spirit and who know what it means to be a manager.
We must ensure that teachers and students are equipped with the right box of tools and that we encourage business to participate in actively developing teaching materials for entrepreneurship.
The comments made by Mr Repo and Mr Ehrenhauser are not in line with the facts and I would like to object to the report being called stupid and dull.
No, it is good.
I wish to thank Mr Pál Schmitt, who is presently speaker of the Hungarian Parliament.
