Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many congratulations to Mrs Ţicău and the whole team of shadow reporters.
This directive would not have turned out so successfully without a strong European Parliament.
In my two and a half minutes, I will talk less about the directive and more about what needs to be done in the future to deal with the weaknesses of the directive, particularly as regards the existing building stock.
What could be more appropriate at a time of crisis than to improve the way Europe's resources are exploited and increase energy productivity?
What we really need now from the Commission is a European buildings initiative with four central pillars.
Firstly, assistance for national governments with transposing the directive.
The last directive was not properly transposed.
In your Directorate-General, Mr Oettinger, you have one full-time official - and he will be leaving in July.
How are you going to ensure - in terms of personnel, among other things - that the directive is correctly transposed?
Secondly, as you have mentioned, financing models.
What can be done in the Commission to improve the way that resources from the European Regional Development Fund are used for buildings?
Perhaps you could give us a few details regarding the funds left over from the European Economic Recovery Plan that you mentioned.
Thirdly, we need greater labour productivity in construction, and for that we need more training.
Better trained workers will increase productivity, but naturally, will also raise issues in respect of the prevailing working and pay conditions in the European construction industry.
Consequently, we would also need an initiative from the Commission for social dialogue at European level between the construction industry and the trade unions.
Finally, in the area of research and development, there urgently needs to be a greater focus on buildings, on the building of low-cost net zero energy or near-zero energy housing and - most importantly of all - new ways of organising building renovation.
We will only be able to build or renovate more cheaply if the entire renovation process is better designed.
This is another area in which European research funds could be used to provide real and substantial assistance to both the national governments and the construction industry.
