on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, I am speaking on behalf of my colleague who is unable to be here and I would like to make a few remarks.
The first is that we very much welcome the simplification of the Structural Funds.
There are certainly some things which we would criticise and Mrs Schroedter has mentioned these, but I believe that we should not hold back for this reason alone.
We welcome the simplification and are also of the opinion that the regulation must be implemented urgently.
Too much time has already been wasted.
However, I must speak openly.
The compromise is not exactly how we had envisaged it.
As everyone is aware, the Commission submitted another proposal relating to the one-off 100% payment of interim payment claims for a limited period and for the purpose of labour market policy measures.
This was not accepted for a variety of reasons which were discussed in detail in the Committee on Regional Development.
However, we must ask ourselves whether we have done enough to put in place what the Commission referred to in its communication of 3 June 2009 as a common commitment to employment which can be used to counteract the crisis.
The objective was to make it easier to use the Structural Funds to help overcome the crisis and this is what we are discussing now.
The European Structural Funds in particular are, as everyone knows, one of the main tools for investing in citizens and for combating the crisis and creating jobs.
If we take a look at Europe, it becomes clear that the crisis has had a huge impact on the labour markets in the Member States and that action really is needed.
There have been massive increases in unemployment, not only in the five countries, but in all the Member States, if we look at the situation in detail.
In addition, unemployment also plays a major role independently of the crisis.
In Europe, we have a very high level of unemployment which is still rising and is unrelated to the crisis.
The alternative proposal submitted by the Commission certainly represents a step forward, which we welcome, because at least five Member States with a GDP that has fallen by 10% since 2008 will receive a relatively large subsidy.
These Member States will benefit from this and from additional advance payments from the Cohesion and European Structural Funds.
All of this is good, but we would like to see more being done.
You know what our position is from what we have said in the committee.
On the one hand, we are happy and, on the other hand, not so happy, but every step forward takes us forward too and this is where we should be going.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
