Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, let us take up the statement made by Commissioner Barnier in his hearing and make the internal market our friend.
If we are to take this task seriously, we need to make the internal market a domestic one.
If we make the internal market into a domestic market, we will make it into a place where the citizens of the European Union can live.
We are Europe.
Making it into a place to live, but not into a homeland, is a different matter entirely.
The internal market is not yet complete.
It still has a lot of potential for development.
The Commission must highlight all obstacles and propose measures for their removal.
The euro and the internal market represent our most successful response to the challenges, both internal and external, of globalisation.
The strengths of the internal market are the qualifications of European citizens and the small and medium-sized enterprises, which make up 90% of the economy.
We therefore need to transpose the Small Business Act in all Member States as quickly as possible.
Let us make this Act a hallmark of the internal market.
However, 80% of the economy in the European Union is credit-financed and only 20% is financed by the capital market.
This is something we need to bear in mind in the re-regulation of the financial market.
The third strength is the competitive export economy.
We also have a few tensions to resolve.
These include the horizontal approach versus sectoral concerns, the four freedoms versus the different social realities, the skills imbalance, above all, in the areas of taxation, education and research, and the yet to be implemented sustainable social market economy.
We need a one-stop shop for business and consumer protection-related information that is relevant to the internal market.
The internal market forum and the joint debate on these three reports on the same day every year will give us the opportunity to ask ourselves all these questions and to make the internal market into a domestic market for all citizens.
