Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Samecki, 2010 is the International Year of Biodiversity and the EU is about to press ahead with a new strategy for biodiversity, in other words, for the protection of flora and fauna within the area of the European Union.
It would greatly enhance the credibility of the European Union if we were also to work on an international level to protect endangered flora and fauna globally and to give this our support.
There will be an opportunity for this next month at the 15th Conference of the Parties to the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora (CITES) in Doha.
The EU must make itself a champion for all species which, as a result of various different factors, but in particular, over-exploitation or destructive and illegal practices, are endangered or even threatened with extinction.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety has debated this issue in detail and will table a proposal for a recommendation in plenary tomorrow, and we would be very pleased if the Council and the Commission were able to endorse these recommendations.
Due to the time constraints, I will just mention a few example species which, in our opinion, are in need of a high or an even higher level of protection.
Firstly, there is the African Elephant.
We are most definitely opposed to the downlisting of this animal from Appendix I to Appendix II.
The prohibition of international trade, particularly in ivory, must remain in place.
Secondly, there is the Asian tiger.
It is now on the brink of extinction, and we are demanding stricter protection regulations for many parties to the Convention, in particular to prevent the illegal trade in the body parts and derivatives of the tiger.
We know that there is a large market for tiger bones and components of the tiger in Asia and this is threatening the existence of this animal.
Thirdly, there is the protection of the polar bear.
Climate change is threatening to destroy the habitat of this species and there is also an increase in trade in the body parts of polar bears.
We are therefore in favour of uplisting the polar bear from Appendix II to Appendix I. I would also like to mention the protection of various species of shark.
Various shark species are being over-fished, in particular the porbeagle and the spiny dogfish, but other shark species are also affected by this.
Up to this point, there is consensus among us.
I now come to the controversial issue.
The source of the controversy is the classification of the Atlantic bluefin tuna, which is found in the Mediterranean and the Atlantic.
Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the recommendations of the ad-hoc working group of the FAO, which wants to leave the Atlantic bluefin tuna in Appendix II.
However, we are also aware of the proposal by the CITES scientific committee, which wants to uplist the Atlantic bluefin tuna to Appendix I. The background to this proposal is the data which reveals what is happening with this species.
The stocks of Atlantic bluefin tuna declined by 75% between 1957 and 2007, and in the last ten years alone, there has been a decline of 60.9%.
The risk to this fish is increasing and gaining momentum and therefore, the vast majority of us in the committee were of the opinion that this species should be included in Appendix I.
This means that there will only be restrictions and prohibitions on international fishing fleets, not local fishing.
Thus, the small, local fishermen can continue to catch this fish, and the preservation of the fish in the ecosystem is, in any case, more important than the general availability of sushi and sashimi.
That is the conflict that we face.
We need to take a long-term view and should provide proper protection for the Atlantic bluefin tuna in Appendix I.
