Mr President, firstly, I would like to extend my warm thanks to the Council and to Mr F端le for their statements, in particular, on Croatia.
These statements indicate that both the Council and the Commission have the determination to complete this process as quickly as possible.
I also agree with Mr F端le that it is possible to complete the negotiations with Croatia this year, given the necessary good will and the appropriate policies.
Of course, it is also Croatia's responsibility, in particular, to take the decisive steps.
I would like to say at this point that Croatia has made considerable progress, particularly in recent months and with regard to corruption.
Croatia has shown that no one is outside the law or exempt from measures to combat corruption.
This sends out an important signal.
Croatia has also come to an agreement with Slovenia and has ratified the agreement relatively quickly in parliament, which shows that there is a strong shared determination to meet the necessary requirements.
I hope that the same thing will happen soon in Slovenia.
I am convinced that the Slovenian Government fully supports the agreement and I hope that the domestic political problems can soon be resolved and that the agreement can be ratified.
However, there is still some work to be done.
The point has already been made that the fight against corruption is an important element.
However, the situation will not change overnight.
There are many unresolved issues in this area, but I am certain that the government and the relevant public bodies have the will to continue this fight without exerting political influence.
As for the reform of the judiciary, this is not only about combating corruption, but also about a number of other issues, such as training for judges.
Several steps need to be taken by Croatia to establish a modern judicial system and I hope that this will happen soon.
With regard to the collaboration with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), Mr F端le has given us an accurate and complex description of the situation.
Mr Brammertz has assured the Committee on Foreign Affairs that a great deal is being done.
It is only a case of finding some documents relating to the case against General Gotovina, but Mr Brammertz himself has said that he does not know whether these documents still exist or whether they have already been destroyed.
It may be that some of them have never existed.
Nevertheless, I hope that Croatia does everything in its power in this respect.
I would like the task force mentioned by Mr F端le to have broad support from experts from other countries, without giving automatic approval in advance to the efforts made by Croatia.
However, I believe that a great deal of progress has been made in this area.
I hope that the few small items outstanding will be completed in the next few weeks or months in order to convince Mr Brammertz that he is receiving full cooperation.
A great deal has also been achieved with regard to the return of refugees or internally displaced persons.
There are still a few problems at a detailed level which are relatively difficult to solve.
When people have fled from houses that did not belong to them, where they were tenants, such as the social housing which existed in the former Yugoslavia, it is difficult to organise their return and ensure that they have a home again.
Although a lot of people want to return in principle, as a result of the economic crisis and unemployment, when they arrive in regions where there are already high levels of unemployment, it may not actually be practical for them to return in such large numbers.
It is true that a great deal of progress has been made in this area.
I am convinced that the current government and, I hope, also the opposition will work together to take the final steps.
It has become clear over and over again in Croatia in recent months that a joint approach to European issues is the decisive factor.
There must be widespread determination to solve the outstanding problems and, despite internal differences, to make it clear that the path leads to Europe and that Croatia must arrive there as quickly as possible.
(Applause)
