Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a development strategy for the Danube region is very much to be welcomed and it is also very important.
It is, furthermore, also a very ambitious task, which cannot be compared with anything that we have previously done in the context of regional development.
The Danube is not just a waterway and it is not a road.
The Danube is a natural treasure.
I know that many of you do not like to hear that, but it is this aspect of it being a natural treasure and also an area with potential for sustainable and modern tourism that will make it possible for it to be developed, particularly around the Danube Delta, but also along the attractive stretches of river, in an extremely positive way by small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Danube has very special characteristics as a river - that must surely be obvious - that are particularly sensitive to human interference.
We have already seen evidence of this in connection with the Gabčíkovo power station project.
The damage caused by this project is still evident today and it was only through the enormous efforts of residents and citizens that it was possible to prevent greater damage as a result of the extension of this power station chain.
It led to a lowering of the water table with incalculable consequences for agriculture.
It was not without reason that my fellow Member mentioned the strong connection of the subsoil below the Danube with the groundwater of the area.
That is something that we should give particular consideration to in this connection.
An important lesson can be learned here: the Danube - and indeed any river - is a lifeline, the life of which needs protection and attention and we need to have a sustainable approach to it.
This means not recklessly taking excavators into natural areas, but simply taking the river seriously, using it for shipping, but adapting the ships to the river and not the river to the ships.
When you want to start a major project, you do not first buy the furniture and then build a house around it.
This is exactly how we need to approach the Danube.
Sustainability and mindfulness of the natural environment are of the utmost importance here.
Let us not repeat the mistakes of the past!
