Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the World Conference on Women next week in New York will give us the opportunity to bring the equality of men and women to the attention of society worldwide.
In so doing, we will certainly subject our current position with regard to what we have achieved and what we still want to achieve to close critical examination.
The call for equality, development and peace at the World Conference on Women that took place on 15 June 1995 in Beijing is still a concrete statement of our goals today, including in Europe.
We are on our way, with the goal firmly in view.
However, we have to admit that the road is not an easy one, that there are traffic jams, blockages and sometimes even one-way streets along the way.
We constantly need to redefine the route, always keeping the destination firmly in sight.
There is an old German saying: many roads lead to Rome.
During the search for the right common path, I therefore invite us all to find more common ground.
Gender equality policy cannot and must not be a subject for voting on and for narrow, enforced majorities.
My group grants the freedom to decide on this matter, and therefore, Mrs Svensson, we would like a split vote.
Equality needs to become a way of thinking.
This requires sensitivity and it requires the power of persuasion.
In her resolution, Mrs Svensson has touched many open wounds.
There are still many unfinished matters that need to be addressed and they have been mentioned: no stereotypical thinking, equal pay for equal work, poverty among women, violence against women and the ageing society, which affects women in particular.
For us, these are the absolutely key issues in this resolution that we want to address.
Mere declarations of intent are of little help.
The list of the many resolutions, strategies and pacts alone takes up two pages of Mrs Svensson's report.
It is very important to my group that, whenever we talk about equality, both men and women are mentioned - on equal terms, so to speak - and we hope that the follow-up conference to Beijing will also result in us progressing a step further towards greater equality.
