Mr President, Mr Kallas, ladies and gentlemen, if we want to put a stop to climate change, we have to take a different approach to mobility.
Transport is responsible for 30% of the CO2 emissions in the EU and, in contrast to industry and the insulation of houses, where we have achieved a reduction of 10% since 1990, the figures for transport have risen by 35%.
All the savings made in other areas using billions of euro of our tax revenues are being eaten up by the transport sector.
Transport in general is too cheap and only environmentally transport is too expensive.
This is the result of political decisions, but when we look at the future of transport, it becomes clear that things must change.
Competition in this area is unfair.
There is a mandatory toll with no upper limit for every kilometre of track that a train covers.
In contrast, road tolls are not mandatory and are also capped.
Air transport receives subsidies of around EUR 30 billion every year, but it is a climate killer.
So, if we do not have enough money available to us, this is where we should be looking.
The EU's co-financing programmes also promote modes of transport which damage the environment.
A total of 60% is spent on road transport and only 20% on railways and 0.9% on cycle routes.
This situation must change and this is why we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance are calling for at least 40% to go to environmentally friendly rail transport, a maximum of 20% to the roads and at least 15% to walking and cycling.
We welcome the fact that the rapporteur wants to achieve a 20% reduction in CO2 emissions from air and road transport by 2020, when compared with the 1990 figures, and we support this move.
We would like to congratulate you on your report and also to thank you.
However, we Greens also want to see a reduction of 30% in transport as a whole.
This is the only way in which we can stop climate change and give our children and grandchildren a viable future on this planet.
We must all work towards achieving this.
