Mr President, Commissioner Barnier, Commissioner Dalli, the fact that we are discussing three own-initiative reports on consumer protection and the internal market today shows that, despite all of our successes in these areas, there is still much that is in need of improvement.
Admittedly, the Member States' transposition of the internal market directives has, on average, greatly improved, but seven Member States have failed to meet the target set by the Commission of reducing the transposition deficit for the internal market directives to 1%.
The main problem, however, has more to do with the application of EU law than with its transposition.
Thus, in the event of treaty infringements by Member States, it takes, on average, 18 months - in other words, still far too long - for them to comply with the judgment of the European Court of Justice.
This can be seen from the current internal market scorecard, and the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe finds that unacceptable.
This deficit will lead to problems for citizens and, in particular, for small and medium-sized enterprises, which depend on harmonised rules within the internal market, but which meet with unexpected, time-consuming and bureaucratic obstacles when they want to operate across borders.
This is why it is important for SOLVIT to be developed further.
SOLVIT is an online problem-solving network in which the Member States work together in a pragmatic way to resolve problems that have arisen as a result of the misapplication of internal market rules by public authorities.
All Member States must ultimately provide the financial resources and adequately trained staff for the SOLVIT centres.
The ALDE Group calls emphatically for people to be made more aware of SOLVIT in the Member States in order to facilitate the cross-border sale of their products and services.
For this purpose, the involvement of the relevant associations in large-scale information campaigns is just as necessary as a uniform, easy-to-understand and easy-to-find Internet portal for receiving all kinds of complaints.
