Mr President, Mr López Garrido, ladies and gentlemen, I have a very specific question which will allow us to emerge from the position of powerlessness and confusion that the crisis has left us in, with no one knowing how the crisis arose and how we can find our way out of it.
Mr Schulz has referred to the highly critical speculative products and credit default insurance and to the damaging practice of short selling, which brought Greece to the brink of disaster and could represent a major problem for Portugal and many other countries.
Mr López Garrido, you have frequently attended the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (Ecofin) in recent months, why was it not possible for the Member States to take concerted action to ban these products?
I have been asking this question in the capital of my own country over recent weeks and months and it has taken you months, in fact until yesterday evening, to introduce a ban on the damaging practice of short selling.
I ask myself why we have to wait until things have gone wrong before making use of the appropriate legislative measures, which are already in place, to protect the people and the economies of Europe.
I believe it has something to do with the Council's dreadful, discouraging slowness to act, which you have referred to.
I will make a deal with you.
We in the European Parliament are presenting concrete proposals.
In the context of regulating the supervisory bodies and the discussion about hedge funds, we have proposed that we should take appropriate measures on a European level and we will make the same resolution on derivatives, if you, Mr Langen, do what you are always saying.
We are calling on you urgently to ensure that the Council finally begins to work with us to put in place legislation so that we in Europe are able to act and no longer have to wait for ever for the Council to make a move.
We need to have the tools at our disposal in Europe to enable us to make progress.
Please help to make sure that this happens in the Council.
However, the decisive point is that the Council must take action on the legislation.
