Madam President, Commissioner, Mr López Garrido, I too would firstly like to make a short comparison with the SWIFT debate.
I was quite delighted to hear the representative of the Council talk of dedicated objectives in negotiations for this new SWIFT agreement.
I am therefore quite surprised by the sort of effect and power the Treaty of Lisbon and the statement by Parliament have had on the Council, which now wants to champion the interests of Europe.
I hope that we experience the same momentum now when we are talking about Passenger Name Record data, and that here there is also a commitment to fighting on behalf of European interests.
Secondly, I would like to say that I believe we all agree that from the point of view of legal certainty for both airlines and citizens, when it is a question of data protection rights, such agreements make sense.
The standards that we want have been set out clearly in the joint resolution.
Thirdly, I would like to mention a point that is not directly connected with the agreements, but definitely relates to the subject, in other words, the debate in the Council as to whether we also need or should develop a European PNR system.
The last major terror threat in Europe was the Detroit case when an attacker boarded a plane and wanted to fly to Detroit.
That happened last year before Christmas.
In this case, we learned that in the United Kingdom, we knew that this person was a threat.
However, those who decided whether he could fly or not did not have the necessary information to hand.
What I want to say here is that I believe that in the European Union, the problem is not whether there is enough data available.
I believe that we already know who poses a threat.
The problem is getting the data to where we need it in order to prevent threats.
In Toledo, the Spanish Presidency proposed - and I am grateful for this - that we strengthen the networking of counter terrorism authorities in Europe.
Unfortunately, this proposal was not taken up by the European interior ministers.
Instead, there was the proposal to build new data sets and gather new data.
It often seems to me that for the interior ministers, collecting new data is the easy option.
I would firstly ask you to attend to the networking of the authorities involved; then we would achieve a lot in the fight against terror.
