Mr President, representatives of the Commission and, above all, the Council, ladies and gentlemen, we hear this every year in the debate on improvements in the implementation of the distribution of European funds: more accurate and more efficient control of expenditure in all bodies and institutions, more transparency for Parliament and also for citizens.
The presence today of the Council is the first indication that something is changing in the Council as well.
Marvellous, we are pleased - as you have heard - but that is certainly not enough for us.
It is precisely the difference that you mentioned - you believe you have created complete transparency, while we believe you have not yet answered our questions from the debate at the end of November - that shows that we are not yet cooperating with each other as well as we should be.
You spoke of the 1970 agreement that you want to amend and develop.
That is all well and good, but this expectation of ours is hardly new.
We have mentioned it a few times and now you have acted as if it were a new thing entirely.
The Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats will support Mr Czarnecki's report.
We share his criticism and that of the other groups.
We will not grant discharge to the Council, either today or next month.
I am therefore surprised by the request by Mrs Andreasen, since I obviously believe that the Member States are responsible for 80% of the funds.
That does not exempt the Council from its responsibilities, since the Council is not a fourth or fifth institution in the EU, but works together with the Member States.
However, our criticism, I agree, has no real consequences.
As Mr Audy has pointed out, we must develop our tools.
Every year, we show the Council the yellow card of discharge refusal and nothing happens.
We must therefore develop our tools: not only tangible criticism, but also consequences - what happens if the Council does not work with us.
That will possibly also mean constitutional change.
