Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, from my economic experience I know that strategies are only as good as their specific implementation measures and the means of monitoring them.
The Commission is yet to provide an answer in this regard.
We listen to the goals, with which we can thoroughly identify, we hear the lofty intentions, but we hear next to nothing about how these goals are to be achieved in concrete terms.
I had actually assumed that the financial and economic crisis - the largest we have experienced since the Second World War and which has now deepened on account of the additional problem of the national debt crisis - would have been at the top of the Commission's list of considerations.
In my opinion, that should have been the logical starting point, as both crises have changed the situation significantly.
If we do not just stop at lofty intentions but actually want to achieve something in the next ten years then we will have to address a number of points in very concrete terms:
Firstly, we need to review our finances - not only in the EU, but in each Member State, according to uniform criteria - so that we know where we really stand, what our financial leeway is and what we can actually afford to do.
Secondly, we need to develop a crisis resolution mechanism to prevent us being thrown out of kilter again in the future should there be further storms on the markets.
Thirdly, we need to complete the internal market in areas where it is not yet complete - I am expecting a great deal from Mr Monti's report - including for services.
Fourthly, we need to convincingly set out how we are to supplement the common monetary policy with a common, closely interlinked economic and finance policy and even a fiscal policy.
Fifthly, we need to set out very specifically how we can replace the divergence that we have observed between the Member States with increasing convergence by concentrating on economic projects that are truly European in nature.
There are very many of these: energy policy, energy interconnections, high-speed rail and road networks, navigation systems and many similar projects.
