Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I should like to discuss the problems with development aid that are nearly always emphasised by the Court of Auditors and to thank Mrs Ayala Sender for her good cooperation that was remarkably pleasant.
Firstly, there is often the problem of budget support.
That means that there is even suspicion that in countries where we are trying to help the population a little, budget support is partly being used by corrupt and totalitarian regimes to suppress undesirable population groups or even critics.
I am extremely critical of this budget support.
It should be reduced or stopped for countries in which we clearly have problems with the use of budget support.
Secondly, now as before, we have the problem that the payments often contain errors, that there is a lack of coordination and targeting of development aid projects between the different institutions and levels in one country and there is no recognisable setting of priorities.
It is essential that this is made a matter of priority, so that we can improve the sustainability and effectiveness of projects in those countries where people really are in dire need.
Furthermore, now as before, I consider it essential that development aid and the European Development Fund in general are integrated into the overall budget.
On pre-accession aid for Turkey I would like to say that I was surprised that the completely normal criticism which, in other countries, would have long since led to the blocking and withholding of financing, has led so quickly to a hiccup in the cooperation between Turkey and the Commission.
I consider it completely normal that we firstly lay down the strategy and the goals, then the timeframes, the project orientation, the yardsticks for measuring and then the method of performance monitoring.
However, if all of this is lacking and projects are implemented that are then declared successful, I have a problem with the way the programme is implemented.
For this reason, I personally consider it necessary that at least part of the funding is withheld until it we have suitable assurances that the funds will be properly spent.
We have now reached a compromise, but I consider it necessary to monitor the problem, since other countries like Bulgaria, Romania or Greece will be affected.
I think it is necessary that everyone be treated in the same way and not differently.
Therefore, I ask that in the area of buildings policy, provision be made for a medium-term building strategy by means of clear construction and financial planning.
Large projects should receive their own budget lines and a reporting system related to construction progress, and we should not pay any more costs for bridging lenders.
As we are such large institutions, we need buildings and they must be planned carefully and transparently.
My last point is that I believe it is necessary to simplify the programmes as a matter of urgency, since that is how problems in the respective countries arise, and this must not simply remain a rhetorical demand, but must finally be implemented.
(Applause)
