Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner De Gucht, if you meet with representatives from ten governments in a small group in a back room in order to agree on a global surveillance regulation containing such sensitive chapter headings as 'enforcement of the law' and 'civil penal measures in connection with border controls and the Internet', you can hardly be surprised if rumours emerge and if questions are raised to which citizens rightly want answers.
I totally agree with the criticism levelled by my fellow Members.
However, you need to be aware of the concerns behind the questions from the Committee on International Trade, which have cross-group support, namely, that an agreement that was originally supposed to be about the protection of engineering achievements and patents is now reaching deep into the area of civil rights, the democracy of communication, the decentralised potential for innovation and cultural development and the protection of personal data.
However, Articles 7 and 8 of the Charter of Fundamental Rights also govern your negotiations and we will remind you of this continually.
Such an agreement will affect the whole world.
However, you are excluding the emerging economies and developing countries, as well as civil society organisations, trade unions and national parliaments from the negotiations - to put it simply, you are excluding the general public in whose service and under whose control you are supposed to be.
You are negotiating without a mandate from the European Parliament.
You continue to fob us off with two-page summaries of the results of whole negotiating rounds.
You refuse to follow the new law and disclose to us the same documents that the Member States receive in relation to these negotiations.
If you now claim that the concerns of my group are unfounded, then prove it.
Lay the negotiation documents on the table straight away.
If you dream of one day receiving the approval of this Parliament for the results of your negotiations, then you ought to learn from the experience of the democratic decision taken against the SWIFT Agreement.
All I can say to you is welcome to democracy.
This Parliament will no longer permit back-room debates and decisions.
