Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to make a brief comment with regard to the interinstitutional agreement and the resolution that we have before us.
First of all, I welcome the fact that the Commission now seems to be prepared, in a more realistic way, to accept the indirect right of initiative of the European Parliament.
To put it plainly, this means that, in future, there will be specific deadlines within which the Commission will be obliged to respond to our decisions.
That is a good thing, also in view of the experiences we had during the last parliamentary term.
It is actually self-evident, but this agreement also means that we will be treated on an equal footing with the Council on all matters.
That is the logical consequence of the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
Furthermore, I welcome the fact that we have also succeeded in creating a closer working relationship between Parliament and the Commission in the area of legislative programming.
In future, we will have to draw up some sort of common legislative programme for the three institutions, and in this regard, it would be helpful if, as the traditional bearers of the interests of the Union, the Commission and Parliament could come to an agreement, as far as possible, in advance.
I am not completely happy with the results of the impact assessment.
In this regard, Parliament will have to consider how it can make qualitative improvements to its own area of the impact assessment in view of the fact that the European Commission does not want to carry out the truly independent impact assessment demanded by Parliament.
I welcome the fact that, in this regard, it has already been announced in the statements that there will be close cooperation in connection with the legislation relating to the External Action Service.
Here, too, the Commission and Parliament have a largely common interest, which we also ought to define before we talk to the Council.
I also think that it is good - and this is also something that is, in fact, a necessary consequence of the Treaty of Lisbon - that the position of this House in the area of international negotiations in respect of international agreements will be considerably improved and Parliament is to be granted genuine access to all information and to all of the conferences.
That has been an absolutely crucial issue, and I am pleased that we have also been able to achieve what we wanted to in this regard.
