on behalf of the PPE Group. - Madam President, Mrs Jiménez García-Herrera, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Spanish are the champions of Europe at football, most people know that, and it is nice, but it is not as important as the fact that the Spanish are also the champions of Europe when it comes to organ transplantation.
The key to the Spanish model, we should all understand this quite clearly, is the organisation in the hospitals.
In other European countries organs, I am sorry to say, are lost, not because the family members were unwilling to give consent, or because the victim does not have a donor card or had stated that they did not want to donate their organs, but, for most organs in Europe that are lost, it is quite simply due to the fact that the doctors do not have enough time to deal with this matter.
Spain has organised this much better with its transplant coordinators.
Wherever this system is adopted, more people can be saved and more people can live a healthy life without having to suffer dialysis and other difficult experiences.
That is why we should really press home this point in the Perello report to the Member States.
The directive deals, above all, with quality and safety, but also with the effects on people who are waiting for organs.
This is because, at present, an organ in one Member State may not be used because no matching recipient can be found fast enough.
If we have common quality and safety standards, we can also improve cross-border organ exchange in order to help people.
That means that this, too, is an important point.
Another very important element in the directive is that we must combat the trade in organs.
This is a subject that we must not simply ignore.
For that reason, a few other Members and I have also invited an expert who has investigated organ trading and the deliberate killing of people in China for organs to transplant to come and speak to us tomorrow.
I would ask all my fellow Members to also take an interest in this topic.
With the directive and the action plan, we have sent a clear signal.
Voluntary and unpaid donation is laid down in a legally binding way and I would like to thank everyone who has helped us to achieve these goals.
