Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Trichet, I would like to thank you very much, not only for what you have done in recent years, but also for your approach in recent weeks.
You have been competent, independent and consistent.
You and your staff have been a calming influence in troubled times.
Mr Rehn, you have made some very encouraging statements over the last few days.
We should do everything possible to continue on the path that you have taken.
The euro is a stabilising force, even in times of crisis.
We must put an end to the myth that the euro and the Stability and Growth Pact are the cause of the problems experienced by Greece and other countries.
Last week, the Greek Prime Minister said very clearly in this House that the euro is not to blame.
On the contrary, it is part of the solution.
There can be no reform without the euro.
There can be no appropriate restrictions on the objectives that we can set ourselves without the euro.
We must not make the euro weaker, if those countries which are affected feel that the euro protects rather than weakens them.
I would also like to add that Greece is not begging for money, which is the impression often given by the daily press.
It would be a good thing if many members of the Council stopped focusing on popular opinion on the domestic political front when they talk about this subject but instead worked with us to find common European solutions.
Greece cannot be given subsidies, but it wants support for implementing its reform and savings plan.
The President of the European Central Bank, Mr Trichet, has also stated very clearly in a three-step plan what is possible and when the measures can be taken.
No one has said that nothing could be done.
We have a monetary union, but we do not have an economic union.
To achieve an economic union, we need the political will of the Member States rather than advice.
The economic union includes the coordination of budgetary policy, the harmonisation of taxes and the coordination of education, economic and social policy.
This is what we are calling on the Member States to do and we expect them to show commitment.
We must continue on this route in the interests of the euro.
