Madam President, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament supports the initiative for the development of a strategy for the Danube Region.
This is an important project to us, also because it strengthens, in an exemplary manner, territorial cohesion, which has been included for the first time in the Treaty of Lisbon, and may also provide an opportunity to make it clear exactly what we understand by territorial cohesion.
I hope that Mr Rehn has also told the many partners he has spoken to that the European Parliament will be duly involved in drawing up the common strategy for the Danube Region.
Unfortunately, I did not hear the words European Parliament in your speech, but we will duly take part in the debate.
I am pleased that we are having the first major debate here in plenary today.
In addition to territorial cohesion, it is also important to make it clear that this strategy involves cross-border cooperation, something that we are always encouraging and have always supported in the area of cohesion policy, and in fact already wanted to increase during this funding period.
I hope that this will have even greater success in the next few years, including in connection with the Danube Strategy.
I would like to point out that, with this Danube Strategy, we will attain European added value, which will be really tangible, particularly for the people living in this region.
They should, therefore, be directly involved in drawing up the strategy and they should also be given the opportunity to witness this European project.
My earnest request is that we do not overload and burden the strategy with too many priorities, but that we focus on what we want to achieve.
In my opinion, it is very important that we use the existing resources more efficiently and that we build or expand warning systems, for example, and set them up appropriately to warn of natural disasters such as floods, but also to respond in the event of industrial accidents, for example, which result in the pollution of the Danube and neighbouring regions.
Common areas of activity exist here.
A successful Danube Strategy and successful projects in this region may also provide models for other regions.
Without always having to immediately invent a new strategy, we can use this as an example for resolving problems together in cross-border European cooperation and - if we succeed in actually incorporating third countries into such a strategy - also for putting in place a Neighbourhood Policy, which is something that is important for all of us in the European Union and which should be promoted.
