Mr President, like the previous speakers, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Kirilov, for his good work and for the high quality of the report, which is extremely comprehensive.
I would like to touch on a few points which have not yet been highlighted, but which are very important to me.
It is, unfortunately, the case that the three frozen conflicts in this region represent a huge obstacle to the full development of the European neighbourhood policy and not only that, but also the development of the countries themselves.
If you have a real or assumed external enemy, things are relatively simple.
In this case, governments and states often put too little emphasis on combating poverty, on doing something for their own population and on taking responsibility for their people.
This means that the need to move away from high levels of military spending, which are criticised in this report and which have risen in recent years, towards spending on social services, culture and the environment, which benefits the population, is a central element of this report and I am pleased that it has been included.
Another aspect which was addressed, for example, in the Tagliavini report on the conflict between Georgia and Russia, is the need for disarmament on an intellectual and linguistic level to counteract inflammatory language and the manipulation of history.
All of this is necessary in order for us to make genuine progress in bringing peace to this region.
Other factors include the need for more democracy, support for civil society, the protection of ethnic, sexual and religious minorities and human rights issues.
All of these things remain relevant.
One example from Azerbaijan is the case of two young bloggers who were brave enough to criticise the government and have now been in prison for six months and have not yet been released.
The freedom of the media is a problem in all the countries.
Fortunately, all of these aspects are covered in this report and I see this in the same way as the previous speakers.
The regional dimension and cross-border cooperation are important.
Therefore, we support the Commission in its ongoing joint activities in this area.
