Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have already had an interesting morning together.
Actually, I wanted to make a completely different speech.
I will not do this now because I believe that we cannot simply ignore what happened today.
We are dealing with the fact that neither this House nor the other institutions are taking discharge seriously in any form.
The only institution that has to take it seriously is the Commission.
It is the one we are talking to and is the one that is subject to discharge in the treaty.
For all others, namely the other institutions, the matter of discharge has not been regulated in the treaty.
That is a problem for us.
Now we must imagine how, in two years, the European External Action Service may not sit here if it becomes an institution.
Then we will experience what we already have now, namely, that all other institutions do not even feel it necessary to appear here and listen to what the Parliament as budget legislator has to say to them.
The Council is now making this year a commendable exception, as the Swedish Presidency did last year.
If we take what is happening here as a fundamental parliamentary right as a basis for discharge, then I can only warn you not to put the proposal currently on the table into action, namely to transform the European External Action Service into another institution, because that would herald the end of our influence, because it is so easy to escape this influence.
The only other institution that is represented is Parliament.
I would like to offer the President of Parliament my particular thanks for defending our rights this morning and for indicating that he will enter into talks with all of the others.
What is the use in us having a discharge right if we do not take it seriously and if we do not compel others to take it seriously?
Therefore, we must consider the discharge procedure itself very thoroughly.
We cannot go on as we have up to now.
I would like to seize the initiative and turn once again to the Council.
Following the Treaty of Lisbon, the Council is now one institution and the President of the Council is one institution.
We expect the immediate legalisation of this state of affairs in budgetary legislation.
You yourselves must ensure the proper anchoring of your own responsibility in budgetary law, and this even applies to the President of the Council.
You must legalise your responsibilities and I call on you to do this as a matter of urgency.
