Mr President, Mr Kallas, ladies and gentlemen, thank you very much for your contributions.
We have set ourselves objectives in this report and much is needed in order to achieve them, including funding.
Therefore, I would like to make it quite clear at this point that it is not our intention to rob Peter to pay Paul.
However, it would be a pity if Peter were very rich and Paul really needed the money to invest it where it is required.
It is hard to image two areas which are more compatible than mobility and territorial cohesion.
We must not see them as being in competition with one another, as some people do.
For example, this is even the case in an amendment submitted by my group.
Instead, we should regard them as working together.
That is also the fundamental concept of cohesion, as we understand it.
Therefore, I would like to call on you specifically not to support this amendment, because the fund will play a key role in our report, in the future, and also in transport policy.
We need money not only to improve the infrastructure, but also for research, which will result in increased safety and improved technology.
Since we know that in the rail sector, for example, there are seven or eight completely different systems in operation, while on the roads, it is possible to travel throughout Europe from north to south and from east to west without technological problems, I believe that it is completely acceptable to invest this money in research, interoperability and technology, precisely in order to allow the regions to move closer together.
As far as the agencies are concerned, and I would like to refer to this again briefly, we feel strongly that we must not create a new structure, but we must give Europe a central role.
In transport policy and in other areas, it is becoming clear that Europe is, in many cases, the solution and not the problem, as many people who view the situation with a slight tinge of national autonomy would like to claim.
That is what we want to achieve with the agencies and with the report.
I would like to thank you all for your very positive contributions.
