Madam President, in the context of the climate change debate, there is now a more intense debate about the Arctic as a waterway for shipping with the opportunity of perhaps shortening trade routes and thus consuming less fuel - do not forget that that, too, is one side of the picture - which includes the question of whether and in what form resources ranging from oil to gas are present and how they can be exploited.
Fishing, too, has been mentioned.
Of course, there has been, and continues to be, a very symbolic value to this debate, which was made clear when Russia laid - hoisted is not quite the right word here - its flag on the seabed.
The other States, too, are starting to articulate their claims more strongly.
With that in mind, I am very grateful to the High Representative for the fact that she is tackling and prioritising this issue.
In my opinion, what has so far been discussed in the European Parliament, and also in the Commission, such as in its 2008 proposal, which has also been referred to, is far too defensive.
I believe that this question must be approached offensively, and in both respects.
That means both in respect of the issue that many Members have raised here, namely the protection of the environment and of local residents, and in respect of the fact that we need to cautiously face the issue of whether this perhaps also comes with opportunities and to have an honest discussion about that.
In the context of an oil report in 2008, we did have initial and very cautious discussions about this issue and set a first course.
When we are always talking about how we need diversification and new sources, including for resources and energy supplies, we do have to discuss whether there is a possibility of exploiting these sources without jeopardising nature and the environment.
This debate must at least be held - we must use this opportunity.
We are in a different technological position today and, incidentally, the technological achievements in this field today are European achievements.
If we are talking about further development of the technology, then this must be in all areas.
I am grateful that this debate is being held.
I hope it will be held in an objective and open way.
