Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the importance of the Danube Region is evident by the very fact that 80 million people in six EU Member States and in four neighbouring countries live along the Danube.
In the Black Forest - 100 km away as the crow flies - the Danube begins and then flows down to the delta and into the Black Sea.
Therefore, we in the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe support the call for a Danube Strategy and, as the European Parliament, we are also making an important point this evening by having the subject of the Danube Strategy on the agenda.
Twenty years after the collapse of the Iron Curtain, after putting an end to the division of Europe, the Danube is once again a symbol of unification.
From a founder member of the EU, Germany, via Austria, which joined in 1995, through to the new Member States in Central and Eastern Europe that joined in 2004, the Danube also connects neighbouring countries like the accession country Croatia as well as other neighbouring countries that have aspirations for accession.
It is therefore almost possible to see the reunification of Europe along the Danube.
Ladies and gentlemen - and this is something to which the ALDE Group attaches a great deal of importance - we now need to take the appropriate measures to also make the Danube Strategy a regional policy priority in the new funding period.
There are many ways to go about this.
One option is for small and medium-sized enterprises to conclude more mutual partnerships.
There are, of course, other major tasks in the area of infrastructure.
This is particularly important to the ALDE Group because, as a result of the division of Europe, the historical transport links were broken and have not been modernised.
Therefore, the development of the Danube as an inland waterway, the modernisation and improvement of its ports, locks and passability will provide an environmentally sound method of transport.
However, work still needs to be done on the road and rail network.
It is also particularly important that we involve the municipalities, towns, districts and the citizens in this.
