Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council and President of the Commission, the President of the Commission has just said that in times such as these we cannot take a beggar-thy-neighbour approach, but first need good cooperation and decisive action.
That is true.
We therefore also need a strategy for action.
However, my impression is that this 2020 project, and in particular the way in which we are to negotiate and finalise it here, does not involve any genuine strategy.
It is more like a reflection put to paper that is now being steamrollered through in a fast-tracked procedure.
Whether this is the way to avoid the problems that Mr Barroso has quite rightly described is doubtful.
For example, he said that the biggest problem with the Lisbon Strategy was the fact that the parties affected were not involved, that there was no ownership of it and that they therefore did not get involved in its implementation.
That is precisely what happened.
However, if that is the case, then for a new strategy we need to take the time to calmly work at getting the parties concerned genuinely involved and then be able to discuss it calmly.
I understand that, at this time when the financial crisis and the problem of Greece are presenting us with new problems every day, we cannot handle it in this way.
That is not a criticism, either.
The criticism that I have is that we in Parliament allow the way in which we deal with the programme to be dictated to us.
At the Conference of Committee Chairs, we have several times expressed the desire to structure the timeline a bit more carefully so as to be able to proceed more thoroughly.
Instead of this, the procedure is being expedited and today we are holding a debate and we will have another one at the May part-session, then in June the proposal will go to the Council and that will be that.
Please do not be surprised if at the end of all this there is no discernable change with regard to the action taken.
This would not surprise me, because we cannot achieve a change in this way.
We need a thorough analysis and not the sort of superficial conclusions that the Commissioner for Climate Action has drawn in recent days - which are deduced from the crisis situation and the fact that less CO2 is emitted now - to the effect that we can now aim for 30% or 40%.
The standard cannot be the crisis!
The standard must be a forward-looking perspective.
We need to take a careful look at the situation and give thorough consideration to what conclusions we can draw from innovations, economic development, innovation and research.
However, we will not actually do it, of course.
