Mr President, Commissioner, I have listened to the whole of the debate on the Textile Labelling Directive and the first thing I must state is that it is important to the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) that consumers who want to have this information when purchasing textiles are indeed given it.
The proposal by the rapporteur to make greater recourse to technology and have only an identification number in the product itself - rather than a label that becomes increasingly long - with the information being accessible in other documents, possibly via the Internet, would certainly help those looking for very detailed information.
It would also help those who do not want this information, because they would no longer have to read all this information on the item of clothing itself.
Secondly, the study proposed by the rapporteur and shadow rapporteurs - whom I would like to take this opportunity to thank expressly once again - raises a number of questions which are individually worth looking at, but which taken as a whole are likely to result in this proposal facing great opposition in the Council.
This is all the more regrettable since this proposal could be of particular importance to the European textile industry, as highly innovative fibres could provide us with an advantage in this fiercely competitive global market.
If this regulation does not come about, then we will all be disadvantaged somewhat.
We should not push aside the justified concerns adopted in the amendments in committee, but right now, we should concentrate instead on getting this proposal through in the Commission's original version.
Perhaps we should return to the matters of origin marking and uniform sizing, as mentioned by Mr Caspary, at a later date.
I hope that we will be able to arrive at a solution in this dossier, and do so as early as possible in the second reading.
I also hope that we will settle the important matters in this second reading rather than spending too long looking at peripherals.
