Madam President, Commissioner, what we all discussed on this subject was that we simply must convince more Member States to take part in this programme.
I believe there is much to be achieved in this regard by explaining the programme and also highlighting its benefits, as those who take part have thus far always said that they will continue to do so and that they welcome the programme.
It is very important to make clear which people this relates to.
It relates to people who do not, themselves, have the power to come to Europe.
These are women, children and the sick, who find themselves in refugee camps outside the EU and need our help.
I think it is very positive that we will be deciding to make a larger proportion of the European Refugee Fund available in future.
At the same time, I also believe that it is very important that this money, if it is paid to the national Parliaments, the nation states, in other words, must not just disappear into the budget, but it really must be used in order to build a durable structure, that the money, in fact, even has to be passed on to the local authorities and to the towns and cities where the integration actually takes place, where the nursery places and housing are provided.
It is a very important point that the towns and cities and the local authorities, as our allies, must be involved in this discussion.
The Member States are perhaps more inclined to reject this in the short term than the local authorities on the ground.
In the predictability that this brings with it, I see an important element connecting us - the EU - and those on the ground bringing about the integration.
All together, this could certainly give a boost to the resettlement programme, something that I think is very positive.
Above all, there is one thing that needs to be stated very clearly, which is that the citizens cannot be left behind - people and associations must be found who ease the path of people who want to start a new life locally and who show them how their new town works or where the nearest swimming pool is.
We need a cross-society consensus that we want to take part in a resettlement programme, that it is a good solution, and that people will actually bring about integration on the ground.
