Mr President, Commissioner, I have three questions on my mind.
The first is, why are we still lacking transparency when the Treaty of Lisbon has been in force since 1 December and we have had an interinstitutional agreement with the Commission since 10 February?
I cannot understand why it is still the case that the Council is sitting at the table as an observer in the negotiations, Parliament is not involved and the documents are not publicly accessible.
So why is this, Commissioner?
The second question that is of concern to me is this: who is actually negotiating the ACTA Agreement?
This is not being negotiated as some sort of follow-up agreement to TRIPS within the framework of the World Trade Organisation.
It is only being negotiated by individual States and - as we hear from the United States - also by powerful economic interests.
I ask myself whether, in fact, standards are not being set which will ultimately apply to everyone even though not everyone is sitting round the negotiating table.
The third question that is troubling me, Commissioner, is this: what actually is the substance of the negotiations?
In your hearing, you answered my question and assured me that the acquis communautaire was secure.
However, when I look at individual papers that have leaked out I unfortunately have my doubts about this.
I understand that negotiations are being held, that blocks on the Internet are possible, that providers are to be used, so to speak, to help police the Internet for economic interests, that restrictions on research and science may sometimes be imposed and that some people are even trying to introduce general surveillance systems.
I therefore ask myself, where in all this is the acquis communautaire?
There is also the question of compensation.
The fact that the inclusion of lost profit in the compensation is being negotiated is not appropriate for our policy.
Of course, my third question, Commissioner, is what is the actual relationship between online and offline?
When I read that online and offline are both supposed to represent the digital world, does that essentially mean that there are also to be restrictions and searches of laptops, iPods and MP3 players at borders?
Would you please provide answers to these three questions.
