Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank Mr Kirilov very much for his comprehensive work, which, as has already been said, has made a valuable contribution to our strategy in this region.
When I was in the region recently, in Tbilisi, someone from another country in the area said that regional cooperation was a concept which had been imposed on the region by Europe.
This demonstrates the attitude of many politicians and people in positions of responsibility in this region.
Actually, we do not want to cooperate at all, but if Europe wants us to, then we probably have no other choice.
We must make it quite clear that in Europe, regional cooperation formed the basis for us to come together and for peaceful development and it must be the same in this region.
Many of the negative external influences to which the region is subject, including pressure from its former big brother, Russia, would certainly have less of an impact if the countries in the region were able to work together.
The region is not only important for Europe but also, of course, for its neighbours.
I am thinking in particular of Turkey, which is a neighbour we can work very closely with in this region.
I would like to see a joint solution found in the near future for the two problems which Turkey is or may be partly responsible for, in other words, those relating to its neighbour Armenia, on the one hand, and to Nagorno-Karabakh, on the other.
There is nothing to prevent the Armenian troops from at least leaving those provinces of Azerbaijan which do not form part of Nagorno-Karabakh.
This would lay the foundations for an improved relationship between Armenia and Turkey.
The members of this group, and Mr Severin and myself in particular, have repeatedly raised the idea of a union between the EU and the countries around the Black Sea, because we believe that cooperation between this region and the EU, but also with its neighbours Turkey and Russia, is very important.
I think that the content of this report could form the beginnings of a union of this kind.
At the moment, this is still a vision, but I hope that it will soon become a reality.
