Mr President, honourable Members, we are in agreement as to the important role played by the building stock, the renovation of existing buildings and the construction of new buildings in achieving our common goals of energy efficiency and reducing CO2 emissions.
In other areas that we have to address - power stations, the energy mix in general or the automotive sector - there are relatively few players to approach: energy companies or the 12 to 15 car-producing enterprises of Europe.
This means that the number of partners to be won over is manageable.
In the area of buildings, there are a huge number of players.
Homeowners, tenants, users, the municipalities with their town planning and urban development in general, those drawing up regional building legislation - generally the provinces or national states; in short, no other area is so important for reaching our percentage targets for energy and the climate as the construction sector, and no sector has so many millions of partners to bring on board - both horizontally and vertically.
That is why this directive is an important step, but no doubt it is not the last word on the matter.
I am pleased to have your suggestions and contributions, which we have been following closely.
Believe me when I say that I consider the enforcement of this directive to be just as important as its elaboration.
At present, the directive is on paper.
Its value will come with its transposition.
For that we need everyone on board - the Member States, but also the municipal administrations and the owners and users of our building stock.
We want our energy saving measures to be implemented not just in new builds, but also in renovation work.
In the coming weeks, we will be making a proposal for how the EUR 115 million or more can be used in specific terms in the near future.
We are working intensively on the preparations for this.
We want to present it as late as possible in order to know whether there is more than EUR 115 million available, but in good time to ensure that no funds are lost because of time constraints.
We would be happy to have further discussions about this programme for renewable energy and energy efficiency in July and September with Members who are interested.
We are currently in talks with Commissioner Hahn concerning how regional programmes can be oriented more towards energy goals in the current financial period - he has given his express support to this idea - and how we can use the forthcoming funding programmes to give greater priority to the subject of energy and buildings in the next financial period.
I need your help in this.
We have long been making preparations for the next financial period.
You are familiar with the main programmes in the budget of the European Union.
I suspect that the Member States will not want to give us more money.
In this time of crisis and budgetary consolidation, I suspect that we will have to make do with what we already have - this percentage of GDP.
This makes it all the more important to give priority to energy, energy research and energy saving programmes for the players on the ground and, as a supplement to this, also to infrastructure.
In the run-up to the next financial period, I hope to debate with you how we can link local, regional and national programmes for building renovation with our goals and, where appropriate, also with a supplementary European financing programme.
As I said, it is an important step - but not the last.
Consequently, I welcome your suggestions.
I am sure that you will keep a check on us to ensure that the directive can also be successfully implemented in practice.
I would like to thank all the Members of this House, particularly the lead rapporteur.
May I point out that this framework directive is being watched with interest in other regions of the world such as China and the US.
Europe is at least a significant step ahead of other continents in this respect.
