Mr President, Commissioner Kroes, Europeana is to be the major digital cultural project of the European Union.
What does Europeana mean?
It is a digital library, a digital museum and a digital archive for our European cultural heritage.
The intention is to provide access for all citizens to this digital resource, not only within the European Union, but throughout the world.
The Europeana project was started in November 2008 and 1 000 cultural institutions contributed to its establishment.
It has 150 partner organisations.
So far, around 6 million works from our European cultural heritage have been digitised.
By June 2010, there are expected to be 10 million digitised works and by 2015, the figure is expected to reach 15 million.
As you can see, this is a very ambitious undertaking, and it is very important for the European Union.
Up to now, it has been funded by the eContentplus programme and by the Member States.
However, so far, the rate of digitisation has varied considerably between the Member States.
France is leading the way with over 40%, Germany is at around 16%, but many other Member States are much further behind, and this, remember, is supposed to be our joint flagship of European digital cultural policy.
It is particularly important that we understand that there is a public cultural institution, and this is intended, for understandable reasons, to provide strong competition for the Google Book Search legal case settlement, because we do not want our European heritage simply to be entrusted to a monopoly.
We want a public resource, in the best European sense, for our European cultural heritage.
We also want to retain public influence, because that means that European citizens can also have genuine political influence.
There is no problem in respect of works that are no longer subject to copyright or that are in the public domain.
It is much more complicated when it comes to orphan works, in other words, works that have not been released from copyright, but for which it is very difficult to trace the rightful holders.
It is another matter again when it comes to works protected by copyright.
If Europeana is to one day also hold works protected by copyright, there will need to be a payment for private downloads, because otherwise, we will destroy our cultural added value on the cultural markets.
Therefore, what I want to achieve from a political point of view is, on the one hand, quick and effective digitisation while, at the same time, retaining copyright, because that is the only way that we will be able to maintain the cultural diversity of the European Union.
Thus, we need consensual solutions for orphan works and a very thorough search to find out who the rightful copyright holders are.
From a political perspective, the absolutely key issue for me when we now discuss the post-Lisbon strategy, the EU 2020 strategy, and when it comes to modernising our economy, developing the digital society, the knowledge-based society and cultural diversity, is that Europeana must also be partly financed from this EU 2020 programme, with the involvement of the Member States, of course.
It must be a joint European project.
We therefore also need a 'join Europeana' campaign to hopefully find additional private sponsors.
We must make it clear, however, that we need to raise awareness among our citizens and, above all, among young people, that this resource exists.
Many people still do not know about this.
That is the huge task that we now have to face together.
