Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have always been very fond of Mrs Rühle, but this is the first time in six years that she has expressed my own thoughts on a subject.
I, too, fear that we are in the regrettable process of amalgamating two dossiers in a way which does no favours to the citizens of the European Union, to Parliament, the Commission or the Council.
We all agree that the labelling of textile products is a topic that is high on consumers' agendas and that we need to find a solution urgently.
However, we really must take care not to mix up two different things here.
I have never known anything quite like this here in Parliament before: the Committee on International Trade is currently consulting on a draft regulation from the Commission, and then we slip exactly the same matter into another dossier.
I am speaking specifically about 'Made in' origin marking.
I will not go into detail concerning all the matters on which we will be consulting in the Committee in the coming weeks and months in the context of the 'Made in' regulation, such as what is the country of origin of a product that was designed in Italy, made with leather worked in Argentina and cotton from Turkmenistan which was woven into fabric in China, where the product is stitched together in Vietnam and then ironed and packed as a complete shirt back in Italy?
Where does this product come from?
Can we succeed in arriving at a rule for consumers?
I am absolutely convinced that if we are able to do so, it will not be in the context of the regulation that we are debating today, but rather under the auspices of the project for which Mrs Muscardini is responsible.
I would be very grateful if the two matters could be rapidly disentangled again in the second reading.
I really feel that in mixing these matters up and linking them together, we are doing no favours to consumers, to Parliament, the Commission or the Council.
It would certainly please me if we could find a solution here that genuinely prevents the regulation from being blocked.
