Mr President, Mr Cioloş, things are relatively peaceful at the moment in the countryside, not because farmers are contented, but because many farmers are currently very frustrated.
We cannot fob all of them off by saying that we will identify the important solution to the agricultural crisis in 2013.
We need to give them answers now.
We are in agreement on this.
The protests could very quickly move back to Brussels, so we have to provide some answers.
In the dairy sector, a fundamental change in policy is needed.
I attended the conference of the high level group and found the responses given to the dairy crisis interesting, but by no means adequate.
If a change in policy has to be made, then the recent decision to remove the regulations must be called into question.
At the conclusion of this process, we could say that ending quotas resulted in a very hard landing, not a soft one.
We now urgently need to consider how we can put a new policy in place, how we can set new benchmarks and how we can bring the state, in other words, the European Union, back into the game, to give us clearer rules for the market.
Markets do not function without assistance.
That is the answer to the financial crisis and also to the crisis in agriculture.
We must provide rules.
We are currently faced by a crazy process of concentration in agriculture.
I feel very concerned when I read in the paper that units which will accommodate as many as 8 000 cows are being built in the south of England.
On the other hand, many small farms in disadvantaged regions are having to close.
These are changes which will not produce a European but an American agricultural model with larger and larger enterprises, which will finally lead to the loss of many small dairy farms in Europe.
We have to remember that this also means losing jobs.
Mr Jahr, we agree on one point, even if we do not agree that it is right to focus our agricultural policy on the world market.
We need a clear legal position for farmers.
They are the weakest link in the business chain.
They are the first to be hit by dumping prices, which are becoming increasingly common in many areas.
We agree that we urgently need a clear policy statement about how we can regulate markets better in future.
We need to look outside Europe's boundaries to see how other regions are resolving this problem.
No one will tell us how and when to regulate our markets.
In recent years, we have taken things too far with the removal of many of the market regulations.
Let us take a look at other countries - the high level group should do the same - to see what rules are being applied elsewhere.
It is clear that Canada has what many farmers and many consumers believe is a tried-and-tested model.
We should not exclude this from the discussion right at the outset.
Instead, we should also provide some answers.
As part of the change in the direction of our policy, we must make sure that we put policies in place for regional markets.
The focus should always be on the regions and not on the 5% of products that are sold on the world market.
We must not regard export subsidies and interventions as the normal rules for influencing the market in future.
We must finally put an end to this process.
