Mr President, there is actually little point in commenting on the remarks made by the right and left political fringes in this House, as they are in fact unimportant in this sensible House that is maintained by political forces interested in the development of Europe.
However, if the EU 2020 strategy is now being compared with a Communist five-year plan, we would have to tell these people to look up economic policy in a text book and read the history of it.
Then they will see the differences.
Those on the far left - not those sensible forces here who sit slightly to the left of us - are now saying that Europe should more or less revert to Communist times.
Part of Europe has, regrettably, experienced Communism and we all know what came of that.
We can wish for many things, but the important thing is that we enable our citizens to live a life of dignity and prosperity in which they can enjoy education and the other services provided by society.
It is therefore also necessary for us, as a political system, to consider how we can use the existing resources in the best way possible.
It is simply a question of carrying out this planning.
Every family and every local authority considers what to do with its resources to make sure that it can make headway over a certain time.
That is a sensible thing to do.
Up to now, only a market economy - with boundaries, not an unrestrained market - has actually been able to provide these services over the long term.
It therefore makes sense for us to consider at European level how we can organise this market economy in Europe.
To think purely within national borders is no longer a successful strategy and is destined to fail.
We therefore need to consider how we can make this European market serve the people.
It is not about competitiveness as such, but about ensuring that Europe is competitive so that services can be provided for the people.
It is all about this debate.
Many fellow Members have already gone into the details.
I would like to limit myself to these general statements.
However, to those on the fringes we will have to say from time to time: consider what you say, but above all read the history books!
