Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to welcome you on your first working day and assure you that you have the full cooperation of our group.
At the beginning of this debate, we would like to say that we want a good partnership with the Americans, in particular, when it comes to combating terrorism.
Secondly, we strongly support security for our citizens and also citizens' rights and data protection.
Thirdly, we have worked very hard to ensure that the guidelines for the negotiations and our position were in place as early as mid September and we now want to see these implemented.
Fourthly, Mrs Malmström, I would like to say with respect that it is not that Parliament had a strong interest in this area, but rather that we regard the legislative process as our responsibility, as the President has said, and we want to be involved in this process on an equal footing with the Council and the Commission.
Our response to the text for the negotiations is to make two very clear points.
Firstly, we cannot accept the way in which this text has been produced.
Secondly, although the Council maintains that 'the points from Parliament's resolution have been fully taken into account', in fact, some of the points have not been included, in particular the right to take legal action, the deletion of data and some others.
These are the main reasons why we said in the Subcommittee on Security and Defence that this was unacceptable to us.
It also became clear that it was only after this that things started to move.
The US Secretary of State has not agreed to anything, unless the Council has received information which is different from the information given to Parliament.
This has allegedly happened on some occasions.
The Council has sent out encouraging signals this week, but has not given any guarantees.
I would like to make that very clear.
This is why we are saying that we want to discuss this further, that we want a good agreement and that we are very much in favour of more discussions, if there is a guarantee that this will result in a good agreement.
