Mr President, I am very sorry that Mr Kirilov cannot present the report himself.
He has worked very hard to draw up a report for Parliament on a subject which is very important for the regions and the citizens of the European Union.
Therefore, I would like to read out his notes.
They are in English, which is very surprising for a Bulgarian Member.
However, it is a good thing that I do not have to speak Bulgarian.
I am very pleased that I can represent him here in Parliament, even though he was unable to get a flight in Sofia.
Mr President, I am glad that this evening we have the opportunity to discuss important amendments to the Structural Funds general regulation.
These modifications are a substantial element of the common efforts at European and national level to overcome the consequences of the economic crisis.
They are a logical continuation of the documents which we adopted last year.
Then, as the rapporteur on the role of the cohesion policy for investment in the real economy, I called on the Council and Commission to work for simplification of the Structural Funds rules and thus facilitating access to these funds when they are more needed by the Member States.
I am happy that Parliament's main recommendations for further simplification have been taken on board.
I am convinced that the new changes to the general regulations, simplifying some of the existing procedures, deserve our support.
Reducing unnecessary administrative burden, red tape and unclear rules will contribute to more transparency, better control and fewer irregularities.
This also means improved implementation and correct spending on EU money.
Here is just one example.
Through the amendment of Article 88, the Member States are further stimulated to detect and correct irregularities before they are found by the EU controlling institutions.
In this case, the Member States will not lose the affected money but will be able to use them again for other projects within the relevant programme.
The second group of amendments concern financial management rules.
Advance payments for countries worst hit by the crisis will be increased for 2010.
All Member States will receive more time to spend 2007-committed funds for projects which have not been approved or implemented within the deadlines.
Both groups of measures are important because of their message to the beneficiaries and because of their practical utility.
Anti-crisis measures are a clear demonstration of solidarity.
They will bring fresh money for the Member States to get out of the crisis.
All measures will commit realisation of more projects, especially now.
This is crucial for the creation of jobs, investment and infrastructure and adaptation of workers and firms to the economic change.
Both types of measures are useful and more valuable if they are implemented at the right time, but they are still awaiting final approval.
Unfortunately, there was a huge delay in the Council for reaching an agreement when it was the leading body for the adoption of the amended regulation.
I strongly believe that now, when Parliament has the same power as the Council, we will not postpone any more the approval and entry into force of these long-awaited and needed measures.
