Thank you, Mr President, that was very kind.
Commissioner Šemeta, the adoption of the reports on the budgetary management of the European bodies and institutions is one of our most important obligations as representatives of the European people - it is our sovereign duty.
The question of what Europe has done with taxpayers' hard earned money is crucial for the acceptance of the European integration project.
I would first like to thank all the rapporteurs for their efforts.
However, I see light and shadow in the reports.
I see light in budgetary management overall.
Meanwhile, it is the case that everywhere the EU controls and manages funds itself, it runs things in accordance with the rules.
Whether or not it is efficient is another matter altogether.
As the European Parliament, we should pay closer attention to the efficiency of policies, political issues and implementation, in particular, with regard to the 2020 agenda.
There is shadow in the area of cohesion policy.
Eleven per cent of things do not comply with the rules and this percentage is too high.
Therefore, it is very important that the EU tries harder to recover funds paid out incorrectly.
The Committee on Budgetary Control has therefore adopted an amendment tabled by the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe.
We want 100% of the money back.
For 2010, I have the honour of being the rapporteur for the European Commission discharge.
Due to the delayed entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, this will be no easy task.
We must monitor very closely whether the new responsibilities of individual Commissioners lead to even less transparency and more concealment of responsibilities.
We must and will examine this very closely.
Allow me to single out two areas: firstly, the so-called non-governmental organisations and secondly, the gentlemen's agreement.
Between 2008 and 2009, the European Union paid NGOs over EUR 300 million in funds.
These include honourable organisations like the Deutsche Welthungerhilfe.
However, there are also some that want to destroy the reputation of the European Union, namely Counter Balance, which has attacked the European Investment Bank.
This is not acceptable and we must deal with it.
We need a register and a definition of such non-governmental organisations, as they receive a lot of tax money.
With regard to the gentlemen's agreement I would like to thank Mr López Garrido.
I would like to thank you for coming.
I would also like to point to the historical element: questioning and revising the gentlemen's agreement after 40 years is a huge step.
Given the importance of Parliament due to the new Treaty of Lisbon, it is also a necessary step.
We must ensure transparency, here and in the Council.
