Mr President, Commissioner, in the hearing in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, I was very pleased to hear you say that the greatest thing that we have been able to achieve in Europe is mobility and freedom of movement for the people.
With regard to the freedom of movement as well as the internal market, you also mentioned that it is essential not only for people to be able to move from A to B, but for goods to be able to do so too.
In 1992, we adopted the internal market de facto in the European Parliament and, with the first railway package in 2001, we also created the conditions for the free internal market in the railway sector.
It has already been said that it is now 2010 and we still do not have this in place.
It is, in fact, shameful that 21 states are still setting up obstacles.
This is protectionism - that has already been mentioned as well - and it is most regrettable that this is the case.
Of course, we now need to consider why this is the case.
You mentioned the different rail systems, Commissioner, but that cannot be the only reason.
In fact, there are still many countries that think they can escape this if they try to return to old times by saying that anything to do with the separation of infrastructures and services should not be taken so seriously.
That is completely the wrong way to go.
I am also eager to see when you might be able to carry out this revision of the directive.
I would also like to urge you specifically - and this has already been said by previous speakers - to be strict with the Member States.
We of course come from different Member States, but within the transport sector, we are all agreed that it is very important finally to bring some order here.
You are a new Commissioner so you are not to blame for what has - or has not - been done in the past.
You therefore have a unique opportunity now to make progress relatively quickly in the railway sector and really take the internal market forward, and with it all European citizens, too.
I am counting on this and I am already looking forward to seeing what you are going to do in the near future.
