Mr President, honourable Members, the Commission is concerned and saddened by the terrible events in Madeira, especially by the high number of victims.
I would like to extend my sympathy to all of the inhabitants of Madeira affected by the disaster.
The Commission extends its condolences to the families of the victims, in particular.
Yesterday, my colleague, Johannes Hahn, as the competent Member of the Commission, was able to talk to the President of the Autonomous Region of Madeira, Mr Jardim, who said that the situation remains serious.
However, the regional and national emergency services have it under control.
It does not currently require support from the European Civil Protection Mechanism.
That said, the damage is so severe that Madeira is hoping for financial aid from the EU Solidarity Fund.
The Commission is currently examining all possible means for providing EU financial aid to Madeira.
Back in 2003, following the horrific fire disaster, we were able to grant solidarity aid amounting to more than EUR 48 million to Portugal.
The Solidarity Fund was created in 2002 to be able to provide financial assistance at EU level to Member States affected by serious natural disasters.
However, the mobilisation of the Solidarity Fund is subject to certain criteria being met.
The most important prerequisite is the submission of an application for assistance by the Portuguese Government.
May I remind you that the Regulation establishing the Solidarity Fund normally only permits mobilisation of the fund for large-scale disasters where the cost of the damage exceeds a threshold of 0.6% of the gross national income of the State affected.
For Portugal, this currently means that the cost of the damage must exceed EUR 958 million.
However, in exceptional circumstances, and if particular criteria are met, assistance may also be granted for smaller, 'regional' disasters, particularly if one of the outermost regions, like Madeira, is affected.
As the Commission does not yet have sufficient information about the extent of the damage, it is still too early to say whether these conditions will be met.
The authorities in Portugal should now carry out a swift and thorough assessment of the damage and submit an application to the Commission within ten weeks.
My colleague Mr Hahn will meet with Portugal's Interior Minister, Mr Pereira, this Friday to discuss where to go from here.
On 6 and 7 March, Mr Hahn will visit Madeira in order to see the damage first hand.
The European Commission's Directorate-General for Regional Policy will be available to provide any support that may be required to help Portugal's authorities to prepare the application.
I would like to remind you that financial aid from our Solidarity Fund is not paid out straight away.
The Fund is an instrument to help Member States deal with the financial consequences of disasters; it is not an urgent instrument.
The resources for the Solidarity Fund are provided by means of an additional contribution from the Member States over and above the normal budget.
It therefore requires the approval of the European Parliament, your approval in other words, and that of the Council, by means of an amendment.
The whole process, from the time of the application until the aid is paid out, will take several months.
However, we, the Commission, will make every effort to keep the process as short as possible.
The Structural Funds are not available for immediate emergency measures.
They may be able to provide some help in connection with the long-term reconstruction.
The Commission will discuss the options and possible sensible and necessary programme amendments in the short term with the administrative authorities in Portugal.
I would like to assure you that the Commission will do everything in its power to help the people and authorities of Madeira to cope with this terrible natural disaster.
