Mr President, at the beginning of his speech, Mr Daul referred to the difficult situation in Hungary.
Many countries are currently experiencing problems.
For example, the people of Slovakia have been hard hit by flooding.
We have a strong feeling of solidarity with the citizens of all the countries affected by hardship of this kind, including Hungary, Poland and Slovakia.
Mr President, you and Mr Daul described the situation in the Conference of Presidents as well as yesterday and also this morning.
I have nothing to add about procedural matters.
However, on behalf of Mr Cohn-Bendit, Mr Bisky and myself, I would like to explain that we did not vote in favour of your proposal to postpone the vote this morning in the Conference of Presidents, because we believe that we should and, in fact, can vote today.
There was a desire to adopt a resolution of this kind in Parliament on a broader level and with a broader majority than was the case in February.
What has happened in the last few days does not relate to procedure but to content.
However, one thing is completely clear.
There has been a move away from the content which enjoyed general consensus in February and, given the serious crisis, this is not surprising.
There are several different solutions.
There are solutions which some people believe are good, and that is legitimate in democratic terms, and there are our solutions, which differ from those and which we believe are better.
We cannot bring ourselves to the point of exhaustion in the search for a consensus.
Now is the time to take up firm positions.
You can take up firm positions and we will do the same.
We have attempted to find a consensual solution, but this did not work.
Therefore, we should now try to obtain a majority for one position or the other.
If there is a majority in favour of postponement, I must say at this point that we in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament will, of course, remain open to new negotiations.
However, the starting point for these negotiations will be the text which we have submitted together with our fellow Members from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance.
Therefore, Mr President, I am of the opinion that we should vote today.
(Parliament agreed to the request)
