Mr President, Madam Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the Albertini and Danjean reports, as well as the motion for a resolution on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, show that important decisions will soon have to be taken and that we need to prepare for that.
Allow me to single out a couple of further examples.
I believe that the European Union now has an important role to play in a crucial phase in which the aim must be to prevent Iran from building nuclear weapons and that there needs to be a real flurry of activity in the 5+1 group, specifically in connection with the preparation of a UN resolution and the possible extension of sanctions, in order to prevent the advent of a new nuclear State by non-military means.
The dramatic situation in the Middle East, and the resolution of the problems there, is connected to this, directly or indirectly.
Baroness Ashton, I would like to thank you for travelling to Kiev to talk to President Yanukovich.
It will be of crucial importance to succeed in bolstering such countries so that they do not make any wrong decisions and to be clear that a customs union with Russia and a free trade zone with the European Union are not compatible and for the advantages of making the right choice to be made clear.
I have one more comment to add.
In contrast to many foreign and defence ministers, we will exercise the necessary patience to build a sound External Action Service with you.
We want this External Action Service.
It must be successful.
It is a precondition for our ability to speak with one voice.
It would be wrong to take excessively quick and thus wrong decisions.
We are not under time pressure here - we need a sound result.
We do need to consider, however, that, in its history, the Union has been successful where the Community method was applied and that, where it has acted intergovernmentally, it has rarely or never succeeded.
It must therefore be clear that those things that are Community policy must not be stealthily transformed into intergovernmental policy via the External Action Service.
We need to build in safeguards to this effect so as to secure the efficiency of the unitary service but, at the same time, also the Community policy and the rights of the European Parliament that that involves - in respect of the budget, budgetary control and the granting of discharge - as well as political supervision rights on the part of the European Parliament.
We hope for positive collaboration.
(Applause)
