Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, these guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport networks initially sound very technical.
However, the rapporteur, Mr Simpson, has already pointed out that they are, of course, vital from the point of view of future economic development in Europe.
Roads are the arteries of our economy.
That is something on which we all agree.
We also have to acknowledge time and again that, as an economic and trading centre, Europe is in competition with the large economic and trading centres of America and South-East Asia.
It is therefore necessary for us to develop our inland transport systems for the domestic market while, on the other hand, of course also linking Europe's export capacity with the development of the trans-European networks and continuing to strengthen them further.
The purpose of traffic arteries is to take up originating traffic and turn it into terminating traffic and ultimately, to take it to where the customers are.
The big issue in this regard is, of course, that the development of major traffic axes is also intended to provide access to the area and thus has an economic development role - we really must not forget that.
Europe is a continent that has very many coastlines and very large ports and these ports need to be linked together - in this regard, mobility is essential.
However, we must not simply take a 'just-in-time' approach.
We also need to work in a cost-effective, environmentally sound and environmentally friendly way.
This will be particularly important in future.
An absolutely crucial question will be: can we turn the north-south and east-west links that we currently have in terms of rail, road and inland waterway systems into a real network, because we have to acknowledge that there are bottlenecks here that we need to get round.
In this regard, there are, of course, certain things that need to be taken into account.
When it comes to the longest trans-European axis - from Palermo to Berlin - this should be extended further via Rostock in the direction of Scandinavia.
These are things that we will need to take into account in future.
(The President cut off the speaker)
