Mr President, all of Parliament's frustration is now raining down on the Spanish Presidency, which has only just taken up office.
Accept it on behalf of the Council as a whole, but I still consider you, yourselves, to be involved in this.
I am annoyed that there are no representatives of the Commission in seats 21 and 22 because, if I understand it correctly, the Commission would have had a duty to expedite this whole matter once Parliament had been asked to set the approval procedure in motion.
However, the Commission is avoiding its responsibilities and has stayed away from the debate.
I do not want to repeat what my fellow Members have said, but I would like to say that I think it would be extremely dangerous for the Council to have this provisional SWIFT agreement enter into force without Parliament having first voted on what you intend to present to us.
I consider the procedure - if you continue to push this through by 1 February at breakneck speed, or at a pig's gallop, as Mr Schulz quite rightly described the whole procedure - not only to be a provocation of Parliament, but also a violation of the treaties, a violation of the Treaty of Lisbon, after it has only just entered into force, and that is irresponsible.
In matters of urgency, you have every possibility of exchanging vital information by means of bilateral legal agreements with the US and with any other country in the world with whom such agreements exist.
So there is no hurry.
I would like to emphasise once again that the citizens of the EU are watching with interest to see how we respond to the highly acclaimed Treaty of Lisbon.
If we do not, at this point, ensure parliamentary control, if we accept this breach of national data protection laws and contravene the Charter of Fundamental Rights, which was so often cited in the debate about the Treaty of Lisbon, it will, I believe, be a kind of kamikaze action and completely unjustifiable.
However, Mr López Garrido, you share the responsibility for this with the Commission.
I would like to ask you one more thing.
I have just been informed by text message that some language versions of the SWIFT agreement have already been published.
Please could you tell us which language versions have been published in the Official Journal, when this was done and why these versions have not yet been made available to Parliament.
