Mr President, since I am the first speaker from the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, I would like to start by offering my sincere thanks to Mr van Dalen.
We have all seen that he is wholeheartedly committed to maritime transport.
That has become abundantly clear.
We all know how important this area is.
In recent years, before the crisis, the maritime economy as a whole was growing considerably more than other areas of the economy.
Of course, maritime transport plays a major role in this, and it is possible to say that maritime clusters will be absolutely crucial to the further development of Europe.
There are also forecasts that predict that, now we are through the worst of the crisis, the transport sector will start to grow once again and that maritime transport will then gain in importance.
Ninety per cent of our exports and imports are transported via the ports.
Of course, in this regard it is important - as has already been said - for ports and hinterland connections to be given due consideration in connection with corridors and trans-European networks.
We need new blood.
If we have more transport in the maritime sector, we will, of course, also need people who want to work in this area.
For this, we need high quality training that is also harmonised throughout Europe and, at the same time, we need to advertise for this area.
Young people simply need to see what future prospects they would have in maritime transport.
We want good working conditions - that is also something that we can, and want to, harmonise throughout Europe.
The environmental aspect has already been mentioned.
Shipping is very environmentally friendly, particularly where CO2 emissions are concerned.
There is still considerable room for improvement with regard to nitrogen oxides and sulphur emissions.
Work needs to be done here, both in the sector itself and also in Europe in general, because, as has already been said, this is extremely important on account of there being strong international competition in maritime transport.
In Europe, we play a fairly leading role in this, but we need to ensure that we also retain this leading role.
In individual cases, we may also need State aid for this.
We need to ensure that we work together to develop this sector further.
To sum up, maritime transport is a definite area for the future and therefore, it is good that we are developing a long-term strategy.
