Madam President, the adoption of the Rome Statute and the establishment of the International Criminal Court (ICC) is a success story.
There are many examples that show this, but the crucial thing is that, for the first time in history, it is now possible for high-ranking representatives of a State - civilian or military - to be called to account for having ordered war crimes or crimes against humanity.
The EU has supported the establishment and the work of the ICC in numerous and very positive ways and it must continue, in future, to support and reinforce the Court and to protect its independence.
The forthcoming review conference in Kampala will take stock and ask what has been successful and what needs to be improved.
Now is exactly the time to clearly recognise that the States must strive at the national level to adopt laws or implement existing laws consistently so as to support the ICC.
Many are still slow to act when it comes to arresting high-ranking people for whom an arrest warrant has been issued.
Commissioner Reding has pointed this out.
Often, the fear of diplomatic difficulties carries more weight than the understanding that the ICC needs tangible support in order to be effective.
The conference in Kampala needs to work on the definition of the term 'war of aggression'.
A dedicated working group from the States that are party to the Rome Statute has done some successful preparatory work on this and has already submitted a suitable text, which can also be found in our resolution.
We call on the Commission and the Member States to work intensively for the incorporation of this definition into the Statute and thus its inclusion within the competence of the Court.
In so doing, the strictest attention must be paid to ensuring that no restrictions are introduced in connection with the Court's independence.
Allow me, in closing, to also emphasise just how important the call for the EU to be represented at the conference by the highest-ranking people possible is.
That would be a signal of our support for the International Criminal Court, as well as a positive example for other governments.
