Madam President, Mr Barroso, Mr Van Rompuy, if the 2020 strategy is to succeed it must - unlike the Lisbon Strategy - actually be implemented.
In contrast to what previous speakers have said, the goals were not wrong.
The main reason for the failure of the strategy was the fact that the Member States did not stick to the rules and fulfil their obligations.
Moreover, the Commission was not courageous enough, Mr Barroso.
It was not courageous enough in connection with the implementation, in demanding reforms or in executing its own strategy.
With a broad majority, you have a new Commission for your second period of office - I hope that you will improve everything, that you will re-inject dynamism into Europe, that you will promote technology and that we will not only talk about redistribution but that we will compete with the other economic regions of the world.
These regions do not ask whether Europeans agree amongst themselves or whether they are implementing new redistribution programmes.
They have their own dynamism, and we need to respond to this.
That is the task that this strategy must allow us to fulfil.
As yet, only drafts have been tabled and I hope that they will be improved upon, because these drafts seem very much to have a 'carry on as before' mentality.
There are no really new approaches.
There is not even anything really new from the Council and the new President of the European Council.
However, we need this strategy in order to be able to keep up with the rest of the world.
For this, new framework conditions need to be defined.
We need to think carefully about the climate objectives of the past.
We need to promote technology and not continue to put obstacles in its way.
As a collegial body, the Commission is called on not to represent the interests of individual commissioners, but to take a leading role in Europe.
You can be certain of our unreserved support.
Only then will the 2020 strategy succeed - not with the cowardliness of the governments and the insistence that someone pay for what the relevant partner in Europe does not deal with themselves.
