Mr President, the Irish author Jonathan Swift in his famous book 'Gulliver's Travels' sent his hero Gulliver to the land of Lilliput, whose inhabitants were only six inches high.
However, Gulliver believed that he had arrived in the land of giants.
To me, it seems rather as if American diplomacy has followed Gulliver and believes that it can treat the European Parliament as if it were an organisation of little people.
That is a mistake.
Mrs Malmström, I would like to congratulate you on your election and your move from one bench to the other.
However, you should be aware that it was not just an error committed by American diplomats, but also by the governments of the European Union who believed that an agreement of this kind could be pushed through Parliament and did not realise that we cannot vote in favour of such a defective agreement.
This agreement embodies the spirit of the security ideology of the United States of America, but it does not embody the protection of fundamental rights, which we as Members of the European Parliament must guarantee for the citizens of Europe.
The possibility of transferring large volumes of data without specifications and without specific details in individual cases is in fundamental conflict with the data protection legislation that we have adopted in Europe in all our parliaments, including the national parliaments.
The serious problems regarding data protection have already been referred to.
You have done so yourself.
How long will the data be stored?
Who is storing it?
Who is passing it on to whom?
What options do I have for finding out about what is happening with my data, who is accessing it and whether it is correct?
What legal protection do I have to ensure that incorrect data cannot be gathered about me and passed to third parties, whoever they may be?
When will my data be deleted, if it has been collected and stored?
Under the terms of the Homeland Security Act, data can be stored for up to 90 years.
If this includes a guarantee that I will reach the age of 90, then I'm happy to discuss it.
It is worth repeating that this data can be stored for up to 90 years!
All of these factors represent serious failings in this agreement.
For this reason, Mr Rubalcaba, I have to say to you that this is a bad agreement and we cannot vote in favour of it.
If we reject it, then it is your job to negotiate a new and better agreement with the United States that respects the interests of security but, at the same time, also respects the security interests of citizens with regard to their freedom.
If you can do this, we will support the new agreement.
The objective of a new round of negotiations must be to find a compromise between these two things.
I cannot recommend to the members of my group to vote in favour of this agreement at this point and in this form.
This evening, I will suggest that my group votes against this agreement.
