author. - Mr President, Commissioner Rehn, ladies and gentlemen, today's debate is an important political signal that the European Parliament wants to send in these times.
The tabling of this oral question in the midst of the process of redesigning Eurostat and drawing up the European Parliament's statement to the Commission is also a sign of our determination.
In submitting a separate resolution, we are demonstrating that the European Parliament needs and wants Eurostat to act independently and comprehensively.
This is the first direct response by the legislature to experiences in and with Greece.
At the same time, we should not forget that in 2005, the Council rejected Commissioner Almunia's Five Point Plan and thereby prevented the Commission from being equipped with the necessary instruments.
We are catching up with what we could have done, and needed to do, long ago.
Consequently, I would like to remind both the Commission and the Council that the political will exists to evolve all the instruments needed to ensure that the euro is supported not only by the pillar of monetary union, but also by the pillar of economic union.
I call on the Council not to block, not to delay, not to prevent, but rather to give the Commission this opportunity.
We also want to know whether any investigations are being made into where Eurostat and/or the Member States have acted incorrectly in recent years, since it is only once we have a clear analysis that we can know which corrections and additions need to be made.
What does the European Parliament want?
We want independence, we want comparability - and therefore minimum standards for collecting statistics, minimum standards for the institutional structure of the authorities and cooperation with the ECB.
We want all actions to be able to be checked, which is why Eurostat must be able to carry out unannounced checks at any time.
We want its powers to be extended because we want insight into all the data - including that at regional and municipal level and for social security.
We want seamless cooperation, we want to strengthen the coordination function and we want the Commission to tell us before we conclude our report whether everything that has been agreed with the Council so far is sufficient.
We do not think so.
We are talking about a minimum declaration, catching up with what has not been done, taking the next step towards greater independence and more comprehensive powers.
