Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I would also like to thank you for your statement.
A dictator or a president who behaves like a dictator is removed from power.
His successor celebrates and is pleased to be able to introduce democracy for his subjects.
After a few months, he is in the same position and it seems as if democracy has only been restored for the purpose of making comfortable, well-paid positions available to his son or other family members.
We hope that this cycle is not beginning again and that Mrs Otunbayeva has a different approach.
Her past, and the attitude that she has often demonstrated, are indicators of this.
However, indicators are not enough.
We need real proof.
If she is not to suffer the same fate as her predecessor, she must take a different approach and ensure that she helps the people of her country.
I hope that the president who has been thrown out of office will be sensible enough not to spread new discord and will make a genuine attempt to live a peaceful life in exile, which will give the Kyrgyz population the chance to build a democratic state.
Unfortunately, the situation that I have described does not apply only to Kyrgyzstan.
Similar conditions can also be found in other countries.
We wish the representative for Kazakhstan success with his task on behalf of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE).
However, the situation in Kazakhstan is also far from ideal.
The same thing also applies to Uzbekistan and to other countries.
The question of how we can encourage the development of democracy there - because it is not a product that we can simply deliver, it must emerge in these countries - is one that we must follow up.
This is a very sensitive region, as Mr Brok has already said.
Mr Morel is doing a good job as the Special Representative, but this is not enough.
I would like to remind everyone that during the German Presidency with Dr Steinmeier, a strategy for Central Asia was drawn up which we have heard very little about recently.
Therefore, I would like to ask you to take up this strategy again and to transform it into a stability strategy for the region.
This is not only about the energy supply from Turkmenistan through to Kazakhstan.
It is also a question of the stability and, in particular, the political stability of a region which is very close to Afghanistan.
We know that in some countries, such as Uzbekistan, the situation is very fragile and problematic.
Of course, it is ultimately a question of humanity, because there really should not be any victims at all.
Against this background, we need to make a new attempt to put in place a strategy for Central Asia which covers the economy, democracy and humanity.
I would ask you to use the case of Kyrgyzstan as the opportunity to renew this strategy for Central Asia and to give it a new stimulus.
