Madam President, Mr Hökmark, I think we have been in different parliaments in recent years, because the parliament I have experienced is different to yours!
I have experienced a parliament in which some say we must look more closely into ratings agencies, hedge funds and private equity corporations.
We must regulate them, we must carry out checks on the critical players in the financial markets and the critical products to ensure that we are not veering towards an international fiasco.
I have also heard others saying 'hands off': the market will regulate itself, we do not need all that.
Or as Mr McCreevy said - whenever politics interferes, the result is always worse.
We have seen the results.
The international fiasco is the cause of the overindebtedness of the Member States of the European Union.
However, we cannot stand here today and say that it was wrong to focus our growth policy on employment and economic activity.
It is irrelevant to the debate, just as it is irrelevant to the debate when Mr Langen says that Chancellor Merkel understood the European Treaty.
No, she did not understand it at all.
What is worse, she is probably in a position to subordinate the European Treaty and its aims for Europe to her fear of losing an important regional election in North Rhine-Westphalia.
These are not the leadership skills that we need in the European Union.
We have told the Commission here that EU 2020 is too watered down.
There is no meat in it.
Please provide some evidence that you are able to acquire new funds.
Please fight for a financial transactions tax.
Please fight for more economic activity and greater growth prospects in the European Union, to give small and medium-sized enterprises and the workers a chance.
Right now, however, we almost sympathise with you for having to save the European Union with governments such as we have at present - governments such as that represented by Chancellor Merkel.
Stay strong and create European instruments!
That is our main message for the summit, because only then can people hope that we will provide the right answers.
