on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, first of all, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I would like to say how pleased I am that you, Commissioner, have just made it clear that you wish, not only to consider a targeted analysis of the case-law in the Liga Portuguesa case, but also to raise the issue of how the Council working group might respond appropriately to the increase in online gambling.
In the context of this oral question, of course, we are concentrating only on online gambling.
My understanding of the ruling in the Santa Casa case is that, although the European Court of Justice reminded Member States that the gambling market is totally unlike any other market, Member States were still required to agree on rules which would be uniform throughout the European Union.
Up until now, no constructive attempt has been made to do this within the Council, although the Council was, in fact, adamant that it would address the issue itself.
That is why the Commission and Parliament have to work together to make progress in this area and to ask critical questions.
Secondly, I would like to add that I am not persuaded by the arguments put forward by Member States as regards ensuring consumer protection in the gambling market.
Member States claim that, when it comes to online gambling (and this applies to the Liga Portuguesa and Santa Casa cases, as well), they are capable of implementing the objectives of consumer protection and efficiently tackling any attendant crime on their own, without any European involvement.
If you turn this argument on its head, however, the logical conclusion would be that we are in a situation where Europe is much less capable than individual Member States of finding appropriate solutions to the more unfortunate criminal activities which happen on the Internet and other things which take place online.
I find that to be a rather odd conclusion and do not believe it to be the case.
My view is that we will only be able to find a solution to online gambling if we adopt uniform cross-border regulations which safeguard the interests of Member States based on their partially historical structures, but which, as the Committee Chair has pointed out, also place the interests of consumers at the centre of our efforts.
