Madam President, honourable Members, this report is the answer to our communication on the dialogue between universities and business.
I wish to thank all those who have contributed to it, in particular, members of the Committee on Culture and Education and the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy.
I would especially like to thank Mr Schmitt, the outgoing Member, who was rapporteur.
Cooperation between universities and business is one option - no, it is more than that, it is indispensable.
The only question is what form it should take so that it is appropriate for both sides.
Better, more intensive cooperation encourages the exchange and dissemination of knowledge, both in business and in academia.
Contact with real problems and solutions through adapted curricula and internships enriches students' learning experience and prepares them for their future careers.
Regular and long-term cooperation creates confidence and it can lead to ambitious partnerships and cooperation projects, which bring benefits for business and universities alike in terms of research, development and practice.
New trends in the labour market and new technologies are changing the demands on graduates and will continue to do so in the decades ahead.
In order that the quality of life in Europe can be maintained and improved, workers must be able continuously to update their knowledge and skills, and this is going to be all the more necessary if we take into account Europe's demographic development in these years ahead.
We need an open, flexible and dynamic dialogue between everyone involved.
For this reason, the European Commission has launched the EU Forum for University Business Dialogue.
The forum offers all of its participants a platform for discussion and exchange of best practice and mutual learning.
The European Commission has a moderating role here, helping to remove barriers between these two worlds.
So far, the EU Forum for University Business Dialogue has met three times in Brussels and held a number of thematic forums on topics such as curriculum development, entrepreneurship, lifelong learning, knowledge transfer, university management, mobility, new skills for new jobs and cooperation between universities and business in the current crisis.
In collaboration with the European Training Foundation (ETF), a thematic forum devoted to third countries was held in the premises of the European Parliament in December 2009.
This was followed up in March 2010 by a thematic forum which explored the possibility of expanding the forum's sphere of action to cooperation between schools and business.
Very recently, on 4 and 5 May, the most recent EU Forum for University Business Dialogue was held in Brussels with the following priorities: cooperation between universities and small and medium-sized enterprises, cooperation between universities and business on innovation, cooperation between universities and business on the quality of education.
These issues were also addressed in your report.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank Mrs Pack for her participation in the opening meeting of this event.
We very much appreciate the positive response to our communication which is reflected in your report today.
We need more cooperation between stakeholders, based on mutual trust, respect and transparency.
We are therefore not just promoting economic growth, but also generating social benefits in the widest sense of the word, by helping people to make their way successfully through a rapidly changing world of society and work.
