Mr President, so that the Minutes are correct, I represent rapporteur Bogusław Liberadzki, who, like many others in this House, has been a victim of the transport problems this week.
I am very happy to do so and would like to use the opportunity to go over a few of the remarks made during the debate.
For a start, Commissioner Šemeta, to my great satisfaction, you have stressed that the Commission will take steps to further strengthen the accountability of the leading actors in the management of EU funds.
We all know what that means.
Indeed, we all know that it means that we must remind the Member States of the European Union that manage a large portion of European funds of their responsibility to do so in accordance with good practice, because we also all know that the majority of the errors that are made in the utilisation of European funds are made by the Member States and at this level.
That is why it is also rather unsatisfactory to hear colleagues from the European Conservatives and Reformists Group and the Europe of Freedom and Democracy Group, all of whom, including Mr Czarnecki, have other commitments, strongly criticising the Commission in the debate and saying that the Commission will be refused discharge.
I would have expected my fellow Members to support pushing for national management statements in this House and also in the Member States, because that is where mistakes are being made and there is insufficient cooperation.
Then it is rather unsatisfactory to hear colleagues from the ECR Group say that everything that happens here is substandard - knowing quite well that responsibility lies somewhere else entirely.
Once again, I would like to mention pre-accession aid, because I feel that a few things have to be put right there.
I would like to remind you that the Committee on Budgetary Control supported the rapporteur with a slight majority.
I would also like to remind you that during the reporting, the representative of the European Court of Auditors sought to remind the rapporteur that his report was about the behaviour of the Commission as regards what was deemed to be worthy of criticism, not about the behaviour of Turkey.
Our fellow Members in the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) have voted amendments into the discharge of the Commission that we would like to remove straightaway, because here it is obviously less about the utilisation of taxpayers' money and more about the question of where accession negotiations with Turkey are going.
Deciding that at this point is the wrong way to go.
