Mr President, Mr Barroso, our circumstances are different and we have a different institutional structure.
Now that the Treaty of Lisbon is in place, the three institutions - Parliament, the Council and the European Commission - will have to work together in a different way to how they have done up to now.
I believe that we all need to be interested in making this a success.
Your involvement in the first part of the interinstitutional agreement gives me the impression - and I am not always uncritical of you - that you want this, too.
The first part of this agreement that we have negotiated with you contains important elements for the role of the European Parliament in our cooperation with you, in particular, but also with the Council.
These elements are the strengthening of the dialogue between Parliament and the European Commission, the possibility of receiving more information than we have done in the past, in other words, to be able to be an equal partner in the legislative process, and a genuine question time in which commissioners, who are, ultimately, politicians, come here and answer questions and give speeches and responses, without hiding away as they have done in the past.
Previously, only you, Mr Barroso, had the courage to do that.
Now, all of them will do so.
That is a good thing.
It will benefit all of us, and it will also be beneficial for European democracy and, hopefully, also for the interest of citizens in what we do, namely our legislative work for everyone.
Finally, Mr Barroso, with regard to the question of legislative initiative, I firmly believe that, with what we were able to achieve in the negotiations with you regarding our cooperation and what we have today shaped into a resolution, we have come as close to the right of initiative for the European Parliament as we possibly can.
It furthermore rules out the sui generis construct.
You worked with us on this and you worked earnestly on it.
I respect that and very much appreciate how you have contributed to this.
The impact assessments have already been mentioned by other Members.
You have undertaken to make this transparent and to act in a cooperative manner.
You said that social impact assessments are important to you.
That is an essential point from our perspective.
I am completely happy with this.
I believe that we should begin the work today, and not before time.
