Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Wortmann-Kool is wrong in two respects.
Firstly, we definitely do not want Mr Daul's farm to burn down.
We do not want any farm to burn down.
We want to take precautions, that is our objective.
Secondly, we very much support the measures that Mr Rehn has proposed.
It is simply that in some cases, they do not go far enough, because the majority of the measures have only been suggested when Mr Daul's farm is already on fire.
You rightly say that we must prevent the farm from catching fire in the first place and that is the decisive point which I would like to discuss.
Mr López Garrido said today that it had taken an infuriatingly long time for the decisions to be reached.
It is also the case that we have spent an infuriatingly long time taking note of the changes that have happened in the European Union over the last ten years.
Mr Rehn has correctly pointed out that differences between the individual euro countries with regard to competitiveness have increased and not decreased.
What you do not mention, Mr Rehn, is something that is very important to us, namely, the fact that the gap between the rich and the poor in Europe is widening.
If that sounds like Marxism to Mr Verhofstadt, to us it is a question of social security and social policy.
However, that is simply not of interest to some people.
The question is how you intend to get people to accept the economic measures and the strict budgetary requirements which you rightly propose when people begin to realise that Europe and the euro area are characterised by a growing gap between rich and poor.
This is unacceptable and this is why there are more protests against the necessary measures than would normally be the case.
Therefore, we are calling on the Commission and the Council to act.
We must reduce the differences in competitiveness.
I believe you are absolutely right when you say that we must succeed in increasing the competitiveness of countries such as Greece and Spain.
This is not about making the competition conditions worse in Germany, Holland, Austria or other countries, but about improving the competition conditions in the economically weaker countries.
That is absolutely the right strategy, but your proposal, Mr Rehn, does not include any specific measures for bringing this about.
You spoke today about the reform of the labour market and the pension system.
This is the right approach, but it is not enough just to reform the labour market and pensions.
We must also look at the budget.
If we do not develop our infrastructure and if we do not use all the means at our disposal in the Europe 2020 strategy, including green technologies and so on, we will not succeed in achieving this objective.
Therefore, I am asking you to take note of the fact that competitiveness and social security in Europe must be strengthened.
