Mr President, Mr Barroso, Commissioners, I would also have liked Parliament to respond to the respect that you have shown it with a higher level of attendance.
We will have to work on this.
The work programme that you have presented is very wide-ranging and contains headings that sound very ambitious.
Even the introduction has the title 'A new era'.
However, I am not sure that the details underneath these major headings do justice to this positive-sounding approach.
This is still all about the climate crisis and the financial and economic crisis.
The case of Greece has once again demonstrated that we not only have a growing divide in economic terms, but also in social terms, because the conditions in which European citizens live in the south, the east and the north-west are very different.
This means that we are facing major challenges.
I have to agree with Mr Swoboda in particular when it comes to a social Europe and more justice.
It is essential that there is a review of this area.
We are not at all convinced that what is currently on the table is enough to combat the growing poverty within the European Union.
Have we drawn the right conclusions from the financial crisis and the subsequent economic crisis?
We believe that the right approach to financial and economic integration is to make new proposals for modifying corporation tax.
We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have long since been in favour of taking this further.
We also support energy taxation.
You will be able to rely on us if you finally put this into practice.
However, on the basis of our experience of the financial crisis, we believe that a clear objective for the tax on financial transactions is still lacking.
Of course, we can say that we are waiting for the Member States, but I believe that sometimes you must present more specific and more precise demands and then fight for them, and this is also what Mr Szájer has said.
It is clear that our response to the Greek situation has been inadequate.
We do not think it is acceptable that no proposal is now being made on Eurobonds.
Mr Barroso, you put a very great emphasis on services of general interest during your campaign for a second period of office.
The groups in Parliament have also asked you about this.
I think that what you have said about public services and how they should be regulated under the heading 'Putting people at the heart of European action' is completely inadequate.
This means that you are already breaking one of your major promises.
As far as protecting the climate is concerned, the various Directorates-General which are currently involved with climate protection are working on scenarios with different objectives for 2050.
In the case of transport, there is a long-term goal of a 70% reduction, but for energy it is 75%.
Mrs Hedegaard's people have not yet decided.
I hope that they will set more ambitious objectives.
However, it is clear that Bali and the two-degree goal do not play a role for any of the Directorates-General.
What use is all the talk about a major new European climate diplomacy initiative if we have obviously given up on Bali and on the agreements made by the G8?
The contents of the programme will not be enough to allow us to make a successful European appearance in Bonn, in Cancún or in South Africa.
There is still a lot to do.
