on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it rather borders on political provocation when this Europe 2020 programme is presented as a great strategy for getting us further out of the crisis.
We only need to look at the previous policy for regulating the financial markets in order to see - if we are reasonably honest - that for months - years in fact - we have been promising to regulate these markets that have run wild, but so far have only managed to make a tiny bit of progress.
As regards Greece, we are now being forced to take a look in the mirror.
From the crisis in Greece we can see that what has happened up to now is totally inadequate.
Our citizens have heard us declare that we are rescuing the banks.
They have gritted their teeth and accepted it.
Now they are paying the price.
Public finances are already overburdened by these measures.
Now we are rescuing Greece, and we need to do it, there is absolutely no doubt about that.
It will be yet another challenge for the public finances in many countries of the European Union.
The banks are in the black and yet are applauded when it emerges that they are voluntarily contributing a bit to Greece.
Mr Barroso, in the European Union, a market to which 27 States belong, we have no alternative but to actually come up with a financial transaction tax or other instrument that will reduce the hunger of speculators to make profits in this area.
We really do need an instrument with which, in a genuinely fair way, we can make those who are profiting from this crisis and speculating against the euro contribute to what we now need to finance.
In respect of public finances, we cannot carry on the way we have started.
In the paper that you presented, I still cannot see a vision of what is to happen now.
The reference to the fact that this needs to be regulated at a global level is familiar from the climate debate.
In that regard, we have not made any progress for many years.
For me, climate is the second major issue.
We are by no means out of that crisis either, but are sinking deeper in, because we have not succeeded in taking appropriate measures.
I actually find it deplorable that today, shortly before this debate, it became clear that Connie Hedegaard is working as hard as possible in the Commission to try to get the minimum target for the European Union implemented.
If we look at the current situation, it is high time we raised our targets to 30%.
If we do not raise this target, then we can forget our famous European emissions trading, for example.
If CO2 has no appropriate price because our targets are too weak, then we have had heated debates for years but are still a long way from achieving the target we set ourselves.
With regard to the transformation of the European economy to make it more sustainable - as indicated in the headings of the Commission's programme - all of us would say that we want to be involved in that.
However, Mr Barroso, with regard to this programme, your Commission has still not said how the targets are to be achieved in the European economy.
What instruments and what incentive programmes are to be used to do this?
Mrs Ek mentioned some specific areas.
There is a great deal of work to be done on this programme.
On the basis of what we currently have in our hand, the European Parliament cannot yet, in my view, say that after Lisbon this is now a successful strategy.
This Europe 2020 has, so to speak, been formulated in such a way as to take us from the failure of the Lisbon Strategy into the next failure.
