Mr President, on the day that we celebrated the 60th anniversary of the Schuman plan, on 9 May 2010, the Council formally laid the Monnet method to rest, with the help of the Commission.
For example, a legal basis for the financial aid has been chosen which prevents Parliament from becoming involved, namely Article 122(2).
The Commission has tolerated all of this.
I would like to join in Mr Verhofstadt's criticism.
It is not a crisis in the system or in the euro, but a crisis in government.
When I see the Spanish President-in-Office of the Council here, I have to ask myself what the Spanish Presidency has actually achieved.
It has not come up with any ideas or any incentives.
While we are discussing the most difficult problem faced by Europe, you are organising splendid summits in Madrid - we will not begrudge you that - but it does require us to be here.
The Commission has accepted everything that has been thrown at it.
It has allowed itself to be given the run around by the Council and following severe labour pains, it has given birth to a communication which does not contain a single concrete proposal.
I can only agree with Mr Bullmann in this respect.
Where are the concrete proposals?
Will we once again be given a basis for discussion for the next two or three years?
That is simply not enough.
We want the Commission to have the courage to take the initiative on the Monnet method, on the Community method and on common institutions and proposals.
Everyone here knows that the cooperation of the Member States on economic and financial issues is long overdue.
That is the cause of this crisis.
It is caused by the level of debt in the Member States and the fact that they have lost control of it.
The diversionary tactics aimed at areas of the financial market represent the wrong approach.
Mr Schulz has not spoken as if he were suited to more than simply being the leader of his party, but he is right on one point and I would like to tell him so.
We also regretted the fact that our Greek colleagues in this group did not support this package in the Greek Parliament.
I think this is irresponsible.
However, we should also point out that all the states in crisis in Europe, all of those which blocked the new moves, including Great Britain, Hungary, Portugal and Spain, have socialist governments.
