Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to extend a special greeting to the visitors to our Parliament who have followed this debate about one of the key issues for the European Union over the next ten years more attentively and in greater numbers than many of our Members.
We are conducting this debate in much too technocratic a way.
I grew up in a country where society was organised according to multiannual plans.
This country, the German Democratic Republic, no longer exists.
That is why I still have a certain scepticism for programmes which jumble together strategies, desired objectives and planned economy codes, which stretch over a lengthy period of time and which pass on the implementation to others.
No matter what decisions we make for the European Union in the framework of the Europe 2020 strategy, it is Member States, national governments and parliaments and regional and local authorities that will have to shoulder the implementation.
The disquiet with such procedures is very much in evidence.
A top-down Europe cannot work.
The united Europe can only work if we continue to build it jointly with national and regional institutions and with citizens.
The Commission has abandoned the Lisbon Strategy too fast, without carrying out a thorough analysis of why the objectives of this strategy were not achieved.
Therefore, it is probably no coincidence that, today in Parliament, the reports and questions were lumped together under the title of 'EU 2020', although every one of them deserves a separate debate.
They contain at least two points on which European policy has been successful so far: creation of the internal market and the cohesion and structural policies.
However, the EU 2020 strategy indicates that the Cohesion policy will only have a supporting role in the attainment of its objectives.
Now, that is a contradiction.
We do not need more planned economy in the European Union; others have failed on that front before.
Before we then confront Member States with a list of planned economy codes, which nobody at present knows how they are supposed to be achieved, and bearing in mind the uncertainties and turbulence in the economic and financial markets now and in the past few years and their impact on jobs and the social situation in Member States, what we need is an in-depth debate about where the European Union has been successful, where we can achieve common goals, for example, a pact with the EU's regions, and how we can create more community without infringing the subsidiarity principle.
If we did so, this debate could and would culminate in an overall strategy.
However, this debate - as we have seen from the example today - has only just begun, and we in the European Union should be the ones to lead it.
