Mr President, Mr Kallas, ladies and gentlemen, this own-initiative report has given rise to many interesting discussions and exchanges of opinion with fellow Members and also to a relatively large number of amendments, 376 in total, which we have been able to summarise in around 34 compromises.
The success of our efforts is due to positive cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, who are the authors of these amendments.
However, it is also the result of the fact that on the Committee on Transport and Tourism, we wanted to use this document to set a clear example to the Council and the Commission in order to determine the direction that we need to move in.
We also believe that this will form an interesting foundation for the Commission's White Paper, which we are expecting to see this year.
One of the most important aspects of the report, from a purely economic perspective, is that all forms of transport will be needed in the future, for both passengers and goods, in order to provide the necessary level of mobility.
Of course, efficient comodality has this economic side to it, but its efficiency must also be evaluated on the basis of environmental, social and safety criteria.
This means that we need comodality in the future which takes into consideration the four main aspects of transport.
The completion of the internal market is an important factor for us.
It is not simply that we feel that deregulation is very important.
We must also work together to assess the deregulation.
In addition, we must evaluate how the Member States are implementing the measures which they adopted five or 10 years ago.
Rail transport is one very good example of this, as progress here has been poor and hesitant.
Safety and the rights of passengers are areas of great importance to the citizen.
In previous debates and in this debate, we have seen that safety is a core concept for all types of transport and we need to decide on the objectives here too.
We want to see a programme with clear goals covering the next five years, because more than 40 000 deaths and 300 000 injuries on the roads are far too many.
We can reduce these figures if the Member States have the determination to implement certain proposals.
In simple terms, European agencies represent the future for us in their role as European regulators.
However, this also means that some states will simply have to give up their national autonomy in certain areas, including safety, and hand over responsibility to a more centralised structure, so that the differences that currently arise at national boundaries can be eliminated.
Of course, reducing CO2 emissions is another important component of this report.
Road transport accounted for 70% of emissions from the transport sector and this percentage has risen in recent years, as it has for transport as a whole.
The most recent figure for the entire sector is 27% and this has not fallen.
Therefore, we can and must make every effort to improve the situation.
This is why we have laid down clear goals, not only for road transport, but also for airlines.
We believe that we can reduce CO2 emissions by around 20% over the next 10 years, provided we have a clear strategy.
It is obvious that cities represent a major challenge.
We expect that 80% of the population will be living in cities and that a corresponding level of mobility will be needed.
These objectives have also been set.
One final point is that transport can be integrated easily into the Europe 2020 strategy, because European research in the field of transport is an important aspect of the strategy, which we support.
It can help people not only financially and with regard to efficiency, but also in the field of safety.
Therefore, I hope that transport and mobility will play a more important role in European policy as a whole than I am afraid has often been the case in the past.
I would like to thank everyone for the very constructive support I have received from all the groups and all the Members for this report.
(Applause)
