Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Gulf of Mexico has probably suffered one of the biggest environmental disasters of recent years, and we in Europe - in the European Union - must do everything we can to ensure that such a disaster cannot happen here.
I believe we are in agreement on that.
We have four seas adjoining the EU or situated within the EU: the North Sea, the Baltic Sea, the Mediterranean and the Black Sea.
Oil drilling takes place in these European waters.
In this regard, the subject is also an issue for the European Union.
Deep-sea drilling especially represents a particular risk.
That has become evident from the oil well in the Gulf of Mexico.
There are problems here that are beyond our control.
A great many outstanding questions have arisen to which we still do not have answers.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, that is why we are recommending to you in our resolution that it would be appropriate to have a moratorium at least on new applications for deep-sea drilling until such time as we have a complete overview of what is needed and how we can close the gaps and remedy the shortcomings.
I believe that the citizens of Europe expect us to ensure an equally high level of security for all 27 Member States, and thus for all four seas of the EU, and that there is no gap between countries that are already doing a lot - and that should be recognised - and those that are perhaps somewhat more lax in this area.
I am also addressing our neighbouring countries here.
We have a Neighbourhood Policy, and in the Mediterranean, in particular, there are, of course, also drillings by countries that are not members of the European Union.
Commissioner Oettinger, I believe you are taking initiatives - and that is something you must indeed do - to talk to Libya in particular, but also to others, concerning our standards and our approaches.
The question is: would the EU be prepared for such a disaster?
What control mechanisms and intervention mechanisms do we have in the event of such a disaster?
We need answers to this too.
We have the agency in Lisbon, the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA), which was established in the aftermath of a disaster involving the break-up of supertankers.
The agency thus checks the safety of vessels, but not the safety of the seas - in other words, precisely what we have now seen in respect of deep-sea drilling.
In our opinion, it would be a good idea to expand EMSA's mandate to allow these things also to come within its remit.
That would at least address the problem adequately.
I imagine that new resources would be needed for this.
That is always a problem, of course.
However, if we want to deal with such a major issue, then the resources will have to be found.
I would also like to mention liability for such major events.
What, in fact, is the insurance situation?
What possibilities are there for getting the funds needed?
We need to gain an overview of liability and insurance law relating to deep-sea drilling, and that is something we are discussing.
Naturally we also, and above all, need to see how this applies to small companies operating in this field.
Not all the companies active in this area are multinationals; there are many small companies too.
How will they manage?
How can they insure themselves?
Do we need solidarity funds?
Do we need collective solutions to ensure that those who suffer are compensated - the fishermen and others who are affected by such disasters?
We also want to know whether the Environmental Impact Assessment Directive, which demands environmental impact assessments for activities on land, also applies to deep-sea drilling and related areas.
There is much we do not know about the high seas.
What kind of working conditions and social standards are effective there?
After all, the human factor can also play a major role.
We have good technology, but if the human factor fails, then it could result in such disasters.
Commissioner, you have overall responsibility for energy.
Offshore oil has its problems; offshore wind would be better.
I believe that this debate naturally opens the way for a different energy policy in the EU - and that also lies within your remit.
