Mr President, Commissioner, your answers have failed to convince me.
The details provided by the Commission in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development were also far from convincing.
As Mr Lyon has already stated, this is a problem facing us down the line.
From 2012 onwards, 30% of the eggs on the market will be illegal.
However, we have no idea how to deal with them.
Apparently, we are to trust states to meet their reporting obligations - permit me to ask why we do not initiate infringement proceedings or at least threaten such action, so as to make it quite clear that, at the end of the day, European law must apply in all Member States and to all farmers?
We have built up a very high level of credibility in respect of animal welfare, and this is something we must also defend.
Citizens rightly expect these standards to be applied.
The public is very sensitive to animal welfare issues.
After all, we do provide funding and public support to the farming community because we have more stringent regulations in relation to environmental protection and animal welfare.
It is not unreasonable to expect something in return from all Member States.
For this reason, I should like to ask: What is the Commission going to do now?
We have already made a demand at committee level.
We actually need to place a catalogue of measures on the table immediately.
We cannot accept the possibility of further discussions aimed at extending deadlines.
It cannot be that we now penalise those who have implemented policy by allowing others to work with transitional deadlines for even longer.
This will cause farmers to lose faith in the institutions of the European Union.
You raised a question in relation to labelling.
What will happen with products that contain liquid egg instead of fresh eggs, for example?
How can we label such products?
This point must be regulated immediately at the very least.
It has already been said several times that 10 years is a long time.
Everyone in the European Union must have known that these deadlines would have to be observed.
There can be no excuse for Member States, including new Member States, saying: 'Sorry, but we ran out of time.
Ten years really was not enough'.
The European Union is in pole position when it comes to animal welfare.
We can use it to back up our arguments worldwide.
We can use it in argumentation with consumers, which is why we must implement this consistently if Parliament and the Commission are not to lose credibility in relation to the implementation of European standards.
For this reason, we are urgently calling on the Commission to take action, rather than wasting even more time risking a situation that will satisfy no one from 1 January 2012 onwards.
