Madam President, Commissioner Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, the largest single market in the world in terms of economic power has developed in the globalised era into a crucial location advantage for the European Union.
That is why it is so important to oppose protectionist tendencies and to expand the single market further.
In view of the excessively indebted national budgets, there is nothing left for Europe to do but to strengthen the economy by means of structural reforms.
Since its establishment in 1992, the single market has already generated additional growth of 1.85%.
Implementation of the measures that have been announced is intended to bring about further growth of 2 to 4%.
We can divide the Commission's 50 proposals for single market initiatives into three categories: firstly, into the many specific proposals that will, in any case, enhance the single market for enterprises and citizens.
These include the creation of a fully operational internal energy market which, for Europe as an economic and industrial centre, is particularly important.
Then there is a European professional card and a European Skills Passport to facilitate mobility within the European Union, which will become more and more important in future in order to maintain Europe's competitiveness in a globalised world, and the strengthening of electronic commerce by means of better management of copyrights and new guidelines for the effective implementation of the Services Directive in order to create new jobs.
Secondly, there are, however, also many proposals which are worded in too vague a manner for us to be able to assess them yet.
Therefore, we still need to wait for the Commission's specific proposals.
I include here the revision of the EU rules for public procurement, measures for services of general interest and also - Mrs Gebhardt - the deliberations on a European approach to collective redress.
I do not know whether we ought to go down the same erroneous path as the United States.
Thirdly, the communication also contains proposals which, in my view, are counterproductive in terms of strengthening the single market, because they burden enterprises with additional bureaucracy.
We therefore need to discuss these proposals, and we are ready to do so.
