Madam President, please allow me to preface my summary with a word of particular thanks to the Ombudsman.
I believe his work is very valuable and I am aware how important it is to our citizens because his office has become a key point of contact for them.
I would like to come back to what Mr Šefčovič had to say, particularly in relation to the EU pilot project, which has been criticised sharply by a number of Members of Parliament because, as you stated clearly yourself, it offers 'more possibilities for Member States' but not for citizens.
I believe we need to take a closer look to see if this is really the case, because what we need is greater transparency.
A letter to a complainant stating that we have received his complaint is not enough.
We need greater clarity here, more relevance to our citizens, otherwise we are going to have a credibility problem in the long term.
In addition, of course we need some meaningful penalties when genuine infringements are encountered.
The consequences for Member States, who fail to implement legislation, and who actually even boast about this in their national media, cannot simply be that they merely receive another letter.
We need to take things a step further when it comes to the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
I believe it is of central importance that the 2002 communication should be revised, particularly in relation to the rights of the complainant.
In this context, I would also like to see the rights of Parliament respected.
We need a register of the complaints received in order to offer us some feedback for our legislative work.
I do not need to know who complained to whom about what.
The subject matter of the complaint and the consequences of the complaint would provide important feedback for the entire legislature.
That is what we need.
It is for that reason that I ask you also to take this into account.
We need a clear register that provides us with an insight into the main causes for complaint and what is being called for.
I would like to see this proposal soon.
I would be happy to work together with you on this.
We will be glad to help you with the cross-referencing tables.
I also believe that this is important.
The important issue here is mutuality and this is something I am anxious to uphold.
