Mr President, Mr Barroso, it is important to make it clear that we cannot discuss this work programme without considering the current budget debate and without thinking about Greece, Ireland and other countries which may get into difficulties.
Firstly, I would like to say that, at the end of the budget debate, I heard that you, Mr Barroso, took a very open approach to Parliament's positions.
I believe that it is genuinely important to be honest when we adopt a work programme of this kind and not to behave as if we could achieve and implement all these wonderful objectives without a reliable budget that does not need to be constantly renegotiated.
Secondly, the discussions about Ireland have shown how far we are from reaching a real solution and a way out of the crisis that we have got ourselves into because we were too liberal with regard to the financial markets.
On behalf of my group, I would like to say that your proposals as to how we will overcome the financial crisis and how we will find escape routes contain a few good starting points, but we do not believe that the objective you have set yourself is sufficiently challenging.
If we look back at the time we have already spent discussing a successful, functioning monetary union within the European Union and if we want to guarantee that we are really taking a step towards economic governance for Europe, it becomes clear that we must not abandon this now.
We feel that your proposal lacks a positive focus on establishing a common economic policy after the end of the crisis, rather than just tackling the symptoms, and we will continue to work on this area.
Mr Swoboda has already mentioned green issues.
I am not satisfied with how the description of sustainable, fair and green growth from the Europe 2020 strategy has been represented in this work programme.
This is not what we discussed in the context of Europe 2020 and it is relevant that Mr Oettinger is one of the Commissioners who are moving further and further away from the idea of rebuilding Europe in a sustainable form.
