Mr President, Mr Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to thank Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska for her very constructive and intensive work.
Since I am expressing my thanks, I also support the report, in contrast to some of my fellow Members who are praising the report but will attempt, by means of some key amendments, to make radical changes to some of the passages tomorrow.
I would therefore like to address the demand that has been made many times for us to be more ambitious.
I am not sure whether what has been stated in this regard is ambitious or whether it is excessive.
I am very grateful to Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska for presenting a realistic policy, because that is what is called for in times of economic and financial crisis.
We do not need to unfold new dreams, but to table something that will make it possible for us in one, two, three or four years' time to demonstrate that we have achieved it.
I am very grateful to her for mentioning the importance of the energy mix and the responsibility of the Member States, which will then decide themselves what they want.
We will not insist that there is only one perspective and that is renewable energies.
The perspective includes renewable energies, coal, oil, gas and nuclear energy and also nuclear fusion.
I would be very pleased if everything that Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska has written and that has received the support of a large majority is actually retained.
She addressed the issue of financial responsibility, the need to develop and to establish infrastructure and not to simply demand this and say that the money must come from somewhere.
She also pointed to the responsibility of enterprises.
This brings us to the single market.
In this regard, we do not need to call for a new package and new legislation.
Rather, we need to demand implementation and a review and to be realistic so that the standards we have established are also put into practice.
Last but not least, we must not simply slap new things on top and then in the end be surprised when energy prices are so high that citizens can no longer pay them.
Is it ambitious or is it irresponsible to simply pile on new things, increase costs and then complain about energy poverty among citizens?
Sometimes the debate focuses solely on industry, but it will hit citizens with full effect in the next few months and years.
In some debates, I would like us to consider at the start what the end result will be.
