Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as I listen to this debate, I have to admit that it reminds me very much of the debate on the Services Directive.
I will tell you why.
In that case, too, my fellow Members from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left declared that there was a regulation on the table in this House that was not perfect, not complete, and yet for years now, they have been grateful for the fact that the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament managed to push it through in this House.
That is the truth about this regulation that we will vote on tomorrow.
In fact, the improvement made on what the Council and Commission proposed can essentially be attributed to Mr Goebbels and Mrs Regner, who fought for improvements here against the opposition, with the support and excellent cooperation of Mr Gauzès, for which I would like to thank him.
In my country, Germany, what we have agreed here for the private equity industry will bring about real improvements for workers and for small and medium-sized enterprises, which no longer need to be afraid of simply being eaten up by the black sheep of the equity industry that do not abide by any standards.
These days, when we read and listen to the press telling us that the funds industry is moving its focus away from the Caribbean and towards Europe because it is important to long-term investors that there are good products in which to invest, that supports the work of this Parliament rather than running counter to it.
However, before we talk too much about dynamism here, I have to say that my group has been calling for a regulation since 2002.
Perhaps there has been evidence of dynamism, but only in the last few weeks.
I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner, as you have personally supplied this dynamism.
Please tell your colleagues in the Council that, with this method of sluggishness, of 'yes, but' and the refusal to put through better regulations in Europe, we will not succeed in getting the next pieces of legislation on derivatives or short selling through.
This situation has to change.
That is an appeal from this Parliament.
