Mr President, if you listened to the first round of speakers, you would have gained an idea of who was responsible for the crisis of confidence, and it is true that this is what it has now become.
Firstly it was the Commission, secondly the speculators and thirdly the Council and, in particular, Mrs Merkel.
It is all quite simple.
Fortunately, someone pointed out - it was the chair of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament - that the euro is stable, not only externally, but also internally, with the lowest rates of inflation.
Speculation cannot be the cause of the problem.
The euro is a stable currency.
It was the basic terms of the treaty and the uproar in the Ecofin Council.
There is new turmoil in every Ecofin meeting.
Mr Rehn has just pointed out that the Commission has proposed the use of a European mechanism, but that the Council was not prepared to participate.
We are now saying that the Commission did not act.
I am not one of those who are constantly worshipping the Commission, but it was the right thing for the Commission to do in 2008 to draw up an accurate inventory, after the euro had been in existence for 10 years.
It referred to four points that needed to be resolved: firstly, a consistent European supervisory mechanism, secondly, consistent economic governance, or whatever you want to call it, thirdly, consistent external representation and, fourthly, a consistent crisis mechanism.
All of these things are now on the table.
I would like to emphasise the fact that it was others who did not take them into account.
If we are looking for people to blame, there is one guilty party we must not forget and that is the Member States, which have got themselves up to their necks in debt and which have not made use of the benefits of introducing the euro to implement reforms and to reduce their debt levels, but instead have lived above their means.
I would also like to emphasise that there is a recurring theme among all these Member States.
Regardless of who it was, they have all had social-democratic governments for a long period, some of them up until today.
That includes Portugal, Spain, the UK, Hungary and Latvia.
In Greece they have been doing the same stupid things for four years.
This is the result.
If we do not talk openly about the main cause of the excessive levels of debt in the Member States, we will not be able to resolve the problems.
(The speaker agreed to take a question under the 'blue card' procedure (Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure)).
