Mr President, as far as our oceans are concerned, time is running out.
If we continue to destroy them at the current rate, we will ultimately destroy ourselves, because 70% of the world's oxygen is produced by marine flora.
It is not enough to promote the protection of the environment within the EU, as we are always so keen to do, because it is a well-known fact that wind and waves are no respecters of borders.
Therefore, I really do not understand why we are not putting clear regulations in place, when rich industrial nations are able to shift their environmental problems to the developing countries.
I think we need specific regulations for ship breaking.
Ships consisting of tonnes of waste polluted with asbestos are sent from Europe to India, Bangladesh and Pakistan to be broken up, where they contaminate whole stretches of coastline.
However, this all comes back to us in the form of contaminated seafood, which ends up on our plates via the food chain.
We have not even mentioned the workers in these countries who risk their lives as a result of inadequate safety precautions.
A day, a ship, a death.
This is how the shipbreakers in the Indian town of Alang describe their dangerous job.
We also have no clear regulations for deep sea drilling.
In this context, I would like to highlight the very positive move made by Mr Öttinger, who is attempting to put in place regulations governing the safety of drilling platforms.
There are no regulations for busy shipping lanes, such as the Bosphorus, where compulsory pilotage has not yet been introduced.
Large tankers pass through these straits every day.
Another positive feature that I would like to mention is the fact that shipping companies are playing an active role in protecting the environment and marine animals.
For example, an Italian shipping firm has installed a system which will prevent its ships from colliding with whales.
It would be a very good idea for the EU to support positive measures of this kind taken by private companies.
