Mr President, Mr Chastel, Baroness Ashton, Mr Šefčovič, Commissioner Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, for my part, I can hardly wait until this service begins its work, and I hope it achieves international success, which is the purpose for which it was established.
The institutions have shown that they can deal with challenges.
Parliament was part of the solution.
We made quick decisions - some perhaps were made too quickly.
This service is uncharted territory - terra incognita - and breaks with some of the previous fundamentals of budgetary law and staffing law.
That will present us with major challenges in the long term.
For me, as a member of the Committee on Budgets and the Committee on Budgetary Control, the hybrid nature of this service remains a constant concern, not only in terms of its efficiency, but also simply in terms of our ability to monitor it.
The joint Rivellini-Gräßle report attempts to address these problems.
We have tried to achieve the best possible solution for the service, for Parliament and for taxpayers.
We have explained processes and assigned responsibility.
We have strengthened Parliament's influence in respect of tasks in the area of foreign policy, we have increased transparency by means of clear reporting obligations and we have increased accountability.
We have made it clear to the EU ambassadors that they have a key role to play in protecting the financial interests of the European Union, and it is very important that their own service should also make this clear to them.
We have created synergies through the joint use of the accounting system and we are granting the Commission's internal auditor the power to monitor how the funds that it needs to carry out its work efficiently are managed.
The European Development Fund and its integration into the budget remain on the agenda, as does discharge for the Council.
I would like to thank everyone who made this outcome possible: the co-rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs who have co-signed the compromise.
I would also like to express my sincere thanks to the negotiating partners from the Belgian Presidency.
They have done a good job.
What remains is the important homework that the service needs to do.
No efficiency savings as a result of the merger are in sight.
The service envisaged savings of 10%, which is not much, but it is a long way from meeting that when it comes to management positions.
Everyone is whispering about a 'Mexican army'.
How professional can a service be if it does not even know exactly what its tasks are?
The opportunities to define the tasks in more detail have not, as yet, been utilised, and it is very important to get back to this very soon.
A great deal of importance should be attached to the coalescence of the staff.
The preferential treatment that has been given up to now to diplomats from the Member States gives us cause for concern.
If some positions are advertised several times and the old colonial map of the world is taken out once again, we will have to have very serious discussions about the service.
We should assure the service of our critical support and the watchful eye of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I wish it the success that we need for Europe in the world.
