Mr President, in relation to the adoption of the Toys Directive, I would like to point out that, when we adopted the directive, we had an objective in mind, namely, making children's toys safer, as children, in particular, still growing and developing as they are, have a particularly sensitive reaction to hazardous substances and chemicals.
Considering the most up-to-date scientific knowledge at that point, we laid down the strictest requirements anywhere in the world for toys through European legislation.
As every year, this issue comes to the fore in the run-up to Christmas, and for me personally, too, as a mother-to-be, this issue is one that is close to my heart, and I think it is very important that we have the strictest standards.
That is why I helped initiate this debate.
I did so in the light of new expert opinions that have concluded that the strictest limit values for heavy metals are not strict enough, given the latest scientific knowledge.
We included a clause in the directive specifically for cases like this, which makes it possible to modify and tighten up the limit values at a later date, and we now need to make use of that clause.
Commissioner Tajani, that was something that we also called on your predecessor to do a year ago.
I am pleased that, as I understand it, the Commission is to announce today, at least, that the limit values for certain heavy metals are to be tightened up, albeit with a delay from when we called on it to do so and certainly encouraged by the debate today.
In general, however, we need to review all hazardous substances, and we should not, therefore, restrict ourselves to the heavy metals.
Instead, we need to look into the latest information on the hazardous substances known as polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs).
Should it also turn out that it is necessary to amend the limit values in order to protect our children, I call for a rectification of the legislation in this regard, too.
At the end of the day, this is about the safety of our children.
