Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this week, in the so-called Single Market Forum, we discussed the European Commission's proposal that is intended to lead to a highly competitive social market economy in Europe.
All three concepts - competitiveness, social and market economy - are important to us in this regard, and we expressly welcome the fact that the Commissioner responsible for the internal market, Michel Barnier, has succeeded in reviving the horizontal, or as Mr Grech described it in his report, holistic approach that we wanted for the single market.
We believe that this is a major step, but we also believe that further small steps are needed in order to really make the horizontal approach of this legislative project complete.
This is where the European Parliament comes in.
This involvement of the European Parliament will only succeed if we are put into a position to be able to overcome the technical, institutional and political differences that this sort of legislative project brings with it, because only then will we be able to fully exploit the legislative potential inherent in this proposal.
That is what we want to do.
I am certain that the public hearing involving citizens and interested stakeholders can help to get everyone involved in this legislative proposal and to give them a sense of being able to play their part in deciding what will ultimately come of this legislative proposal.
Commissioner Barnier, Parliament will play its part in achieving this goal.
We want to revise the programme of 50 proposals, we want to set priorities, we want to help to ensure that all European Parliament committees are involved and that we achieve the institutional consensus that such legislation requires.
Ultimately, ladies and gentlemen, we must succeed in ensuring that everyone has his or her place in this single market and that we will all be able to benefit jointly from cooperation within this single market.
We want to demonstrate this by 2012 - for the 20th anniversary of the single market - and we will work hard to achieve it.
