on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in recent days, large protests have been taking place in Kiev, Lugansk, Kharkov and many other large and small towns in Ukraine.
Tens or hundreds of thousands of Ukrainian citizens are taking to the street.
They are protesting against tax laws that they consider to be unfair.
If our resolution is directed at anyone, then in this context it should, in my opinion, be the Ukrainian citizens, who with this protest are guaranteeing that Ukraine's development as a democracy continues.
Our resolution, which expresses concerns over the erosion of a democracy, is of course directed at the government and the authorities, particularly in connection with these protests, in particular the interior authorities of Ukraine, to urge them to allow these protests to continue.
Hundreds of thousands, perhaps millions, of people are expected to be in Kiev tomorrow.
I must admit that I am very anxiously following developments here and I am not without concerns about what might happen.
So far, so good - touch wood.
In the last few days, the government has shown that the freedom of assembly is operating.
I very much hope that that will continue to be the case.
I think it was very important for us to make this a cross-group resolution.
It would be a grave mistake for the development of Ukraine if in future one side of this House should side with the Party of Regions and the other with Yulia Tymoshenko's party.
That would not help the democratic development of Ukraine.
I hope that this resolution will be taken seriously - even if we adopt it after the summit - particularly in view of the large protests and people's concerns about the effects of the IMF reform, and that we follow what is happening now in Kiev and Ukraine in general very closely.
Thank you for your attention and I hope that we - including the Commission - will continue to show solidarity in our work together with this country, which is so close to us as Europeans.
