Mr President, Commissioner, you put forward a very sound plan, and Mr Bendtsen made it even better.
We must succeed in breaking through the equation 'more economic growth equals more energy consumption at the same time'.
This poses a particular challenge of us, as politicians, as we have normal technological progress which is, of course, characterised by the fact that we have more energy efficient products and modes of economic operation.
We must succeed, however, in reducing our energy bills despite stronger economic growth.
In this connection, we need to bring forward truly innovative solutions and provide the right incentives through policy.
Economic history, too, has shown that those societies that enjoyed the most success over the long term were those societies that made this efficiency - whether in relation to raw materials or energy - the motto that they lived by.
This is a particular challenge for us Europeans, with our high standard of living.
We need to drive forward energy efficiency if, realistically, we hope to attain our climate targets.
I would also like to take the liberty of reminding you that reducing the dependence on imports of fossil fuels remains an important policy goal.
In addition, the capital that is freed up as a result of the lower power bills releases a major potential for consumption which, furthermore, can contribute to our economic growth in the long term.
That said, I believe that the approach that you have chosen, which is to say, not laying down these targets in binding form, is the correct one.
We should not allow ourselves to get lost in debates about definitions and problems of measurement.
It is important that we chart the path forward.
The Commission and the rapporteur are taking the right approach in this regard.
We should indeed leave this target as non-binding, but that does not mean that we should lower our ambitions.
For the reasons stated, those ambitions must continue to be set high, but choosing a path where this can only be achieved through a binding target is not the right way to go and our group will therefore be rejecting that approach.
