Mr President, Commissioner Damanaki, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that we are able to adopt a regulation that represents one more small step towards our shared goal of sustainable fisheries.
The regional fisheries organisations are extraordinarily important institutions for good management worldwide.
Unfortunately, the negotiations are often difficult and progress much too slow for impatient people such as me.
We must therefore do all we can to strengthen the regional fisheries organisations.
I will now comment on the specific outcome of the NEAFC report.
I believe that the new port state control ruling in the NEAFC and the new measures to prevent illegal fisheries are very much to be welcomed.
Nonetheless, we had to conduct intensive negotiations with the Council and Commission on matters that seem extremely technical at first glance, but which are important for our future work.
I think we have found a compromise that is acceptable to all parties in the matter of delegated acts.
We also succeeded in reaching agreement on how future NEAFC decisions are to be transposed into EU law.
It is no secret, however, that the Commission is not very happy with the result achieved here.
I can understand that.
We cannot allow it to take years for the European Union to implement NEAFC decisions.
In this respect, Council and Parliament must together prove that we are able to conclude a codecision procedure quickly where necessary.
Finally, I would like to say something about a matter that is very current: the dispute with Iceland over mackerel fishing.
We already have the NEAFC, which governs the international waters of the North-East Atlantic.
In the case of migratory species such as mackerel, however, we also need an agreement that applies in territorial waters.
As you know, that is still a sticking point.
I feel it is extremely regrettable that, despite the cooperation working in the main, there is so much dispute over this.
How about giving the regional fisheries organisations authority for coastal waters - at least for migratory species?
It would be a radical step, of course, but undoubtedly one worth considering.
