Mr President, I am pleased that I get to have the last word in this debate today.
I will start by gladly accepting Mr Schulz's apology.
He said that he had sometimes behaved badly.
It is always good when he notices that he occasionally makes too much noise.
His comment that we previously only dealt with technical budgetary matters and have now realised that this is a question of budgetary policy is something that I wish to firmly reject.
I have been working in the Committee on Budgets for six years now and even before this, it was always a matter of budgetary policy and not just the technical aspect.
Mr Schulz said that he has learnt a great deal over the last few weeks.
I am pleased to hear that.
In that case, he will probably understand this now.
I will now turn to the anti-European tones that have just been heard in this House.
I would like to emphasise clearly once again that if - as stated in the Treaty of Lisbon - we have a goal to discuss new own resources for Europe, this would not only be an additional tax for European citizens, but would also mean that the payments from the gross domestic product were reduced by the same amount.
In other words, it would not simply put a greater burden on citizens, it would also provide a more transparent system for our own resources.
This needs to be debated.
I reject the attempt to manipulate opinion by implying that there will only be additional burdens.
Rather, the goal is to find an intelligent financing system.
The Council and Parliament should be prepared to do that.
My second comment, because it has simply been presented here as if European taxpayers are always having things taken away from them by the European Union, is that there are education programmes for European citizens, there is new infrastructure, there are new languages and there is help for dairy farmers.
In other words, what we are doing here is in the well-understood interests of European citizens, and that needs to be said loud and clear.
What is the global role of the European Union in the coming years?
We have such successful countries as China, India, Brazil and others with which we compete at a global level.
If, as the European Union, we want to be strong and to have new products that will hopefully also be sustainable, new production methods that are environmentally responsible, energy generation that is genuinely based on renewable energy sources, which was once again established as a goal in Cancún, then for this we also need appropriate resources and we need the European budget, which reflects our common interests.
I hope that we will move in this direction in the next few years.
