Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the supporters of the Treaty of Lisbon have emphasised the fact that it does away with the democratic deficit in the EU.
In reality, the first year has shown that the European Parliament has had to fight with the Council and the Commission simply to achieve parliamentary codecision and democratic control.
The codecision of Parliament on all budgetary questions is a democratic minimum standard.
I repeat: it is a minimum standard.
This Parliament was elected to bring the European ideal to life and to act as a counterbalance to national egotism.
It is our duty not to compromise which it comes to the involvement of the European Parliament in the negotiations concerning the financial framework for the 2013 to 2020 budgets.
New tasks cannot be financed by budget reallocations, or at least only to a very limited extent.
When faced by the tight budgets in the Member States, it is completely incomprehensible that the Council is refusing to discuss the own resources with Parliament.
The European budget must be a concrete representation of the solidarity of the Member States.
Otherwise, we will move away from the fundamental idea of European integration and lose the respect of the citizens of Europe.
The net contributors seem to have forgotten this.
While their companies are making profits on the European internal market, Germany and other countries are being thoroughly miserly when it comes to overcoming the joint challenges faced by Europe.
Solidarity has been redefined and one Member State will only help the others when this is to its own advantage.
The German banks are so deeply enmeshed in the crisis in the Irish financial sector that the lifeline is just as important for the rescuers as it is for those being rescued.
In recent years, my group has rejected the EU budget.
We believe that its priorities are wrong and that too little attention has been paid to overcoming the decline in environmental and social prosperity.
This has deepened the social divide within the EU and within the Member States.
It is totally unacceptable for major projects such as ITER to be financed at the expense of projects which provide direct funding for students, the unemployed, rural areas and local communities.
To summarise, it is high time, and I admit this is a somewhat simplistic way of putting it, for us to think more closely about the people of Europe in European terms and not in egotistic national terms.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
