Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the planned agreement is in accordance with the longstanding desire of this esteemed House to finally create binding minimum standards and legal rights in respect of data protection with the US.
The intention is to fill the gaps in legal protection and achieve a higher standard of data protection for the citizens of the European Union.
Close cooperation with our US partners is necessary and right.
However, it must not result in the constitutionally guaranteed rights of European citizens being undermined.
The Commission's proposed negotiating mandate for such an agreement is good and points us in the right direction.
As rapporteur for the European Parliament, it is a pleasure for me to take this opportunity to assure the Commission that the present draft has the broad support of all the groups in Parliament.
From our perspective, it is now urgently necessary that the Council also accepts this proposal, so that the negotiations can commence as soon as possible.
I have no doubt that it will not be easy to convince our partner across the Atlantic of our concerns in detail.
I am convinced, however, that the United States was founded on the principles of freedom, democracy and fundamental rights and shares our respect for individual rights in relation to state authorities.
It is therefore not an impossibility, nor a matter for conflict; rather, there is a realistic possibility of reinforcing our common ground on both sides of the Atlantic and creating a new basis for even closer cooperation.
I should like to conclude, however, by mentioning one more aspect that is particularly important to us as Parliament: only when we succeed in creating a uniform framework within the EU will we gain the trust of our citizens in respect of transatlantic data protection.
It is therefore of the utmost importance that the data protection agreement with the US represents a framework for all agreements made by the EU and by the Member States with the US.
As such, I am looking forward to my work as rapporteur in connection with the data protection agreement with the United States and to cooperating closely with my fellow Members of this Parliament, with the Commission, the Council and also with the US Congress and US Government.
