Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the honourable Member has been speaking about the subject of renewable energy and asking what we plan to do to achieve our joint targets.
Three years ago, the European Council set us some ambitious climate goals.
One of these concerns renewable energy, which, by 2020, must make up 20% of the total energy consumption in the European Union.
Each Member State must exploit the opportunities available to it and make a mandatory contribution to achieving this goal.
If we divide this 20% across the various different sectors, such as transport, heating, electricity, industry and agriculture, it is clear that electricity generation is the most important.
In order to achieve the target of 20% of total energy consumption, we need around 35% of our electricity to be generated from renewable sources.
If we are to do this efficiently and ensure that the price is affordable for consumers, we must make use of the best locations.
Each Member State has different strengths and weaknesses, which must be exploited, and these include wind from the North Sea, sun in the southern part of the European Union and biogas from rural areas.
Obviously, in order to ensure our security of supply, we need to make significant improvements in the quality and capacity of our infrastructure, our transport networks and our storage facilities.
The Commission took this point into consideration a few days ago when we discussed and adopted an energy infrastructure package which focuses, in part, on integrating and feeding in renewable energy.
We have set binding targets for renewable energy for every Member State.
In a few days, on 5 December, we will reach the transposition deadline and the Commission will begin following up on the implementation of the directive, in order to ensure that the appropriate incentives have been put in place and that suitable subsidy measures have been taken, which will allow the binding targets to be achieved.
The Member States must concentrate on creating the ideal conditions for the use of renewable energy.
Among other things, the European Union directive calls for Member States to produce national action plans specifying the necessary measures and the concrete, binding national targets, broken down by sector, such as transport, heating, electricity conversion and industry.
The next step involves removing the administrative obstacles to renewable energy.
A third important area is the construction industry.
Around 40% of our energy is used in industrial buildings, service sector premises and private homes.
By the end of 2012, we want qualification and certification schemes to be in place for the installation of renewable energy facilities.
These include distribution and transmission networks which must be prepared for the development and increase in renewable energy and which must also guarantee priority access for renewable energy.
The Member States can be flexible in their choice of technologies.
They can decide which types of renewable energy they will invest in to achieve the binding targets.
The Commission will subsidise innovations and projects which aim to research into, develop and commercialise technologies for renewable energy, using funding from the seventh framework programme that you in this House have made available to us.
The Commission also has money from the European Economic Recovery Plan for three years which is specifically intended for renewable energy projects, in this case, for the development of offshore wind energy.
I would like to emphasise to the new Member States that cohesion programmes and funding to promote renewable energy are also available.
Renewable energy has a high priority in our energy and climate policy, in particular, with regard to reducing our dependency on imported fossil fuels.
Only by working together will we succeed in achieving our ambitious climate goals and increasing Europe's competitiveness.
I am relying on a close partnership with the Member States regarding the use of the different energy resources.
