Madam President, I admire the ability of my fellow Member to make something out of the laughter of the two fellow Members over there.
However, back to the matter at hand.
I believe this debate is too important to try to score cheap political points from it.
First of all, I would like to express my solidarity with, and my sympathy for, the victims, particularly those who are helping and risking their lives to halt and ward off this disaster.
However, it is now important for us to keep a cool head and carry out an analysis of the current situation and, above all, to attribute responsibility.
I fully agree with the Commissioner when she says that we need to see whether the directives that we have produced for such incidents here in Europe have been properly transposed and implemented.
That is the first step and, in this regard, I am very eager to see the Commission's report and what conclusions it will draw.
At the same time, however, I would like to ask the Commission to be much more stringent and much swifter in calling to account the Member States that do not transpose the law that we lay down here.
That is the Commission's job, and I would say that it is sometimes a bit lax in doing this.
In this regard, the Commission would be well advised to remind the Member States of their responsibility.
Secondly, here in Europe, we have the principle that the polluter should pay.
I believe that is a very good and important principle, and I do not think that the responsibility for such incidents should be passed to the public purse.
I therefore consider the call for an extension of the Solidarity Fund to be unjustified, because we have an obvious polluter here and this polluter should pay for the damage that has been caused.
When such disasters occur, we should, of course, consider whether individual companies are in a position to bear the costs.
Here again, I am looking in the direction of the Commission, which ought to examine whether we should introduce insurance solutions in order to be able to provide appropriate compensation to people who have suffered damage.
