Mr President, I would first of all like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteurs for the excellent work they have done and for the compromises that have been reached.
Of course, not everyone is satisfied yet, and I also understand the concern, particularly regarding geographical balance.
However, I can assure Mr Saryusz-Wolski that we all - not just the new Members of this House - must ensure that we achieve a better geographical balance, and that we all - not just the women - must ensure that we achieve a healthy gender balance.
That is necessary, and I take the promises seriously.
We will certainly press for these things to be implemented.
Above all, it is a question of providing a common service of the highest quality for the European Union.
I see no contradiction here.
On the contrary, everything must be reduced to a common denominator, because now it is time to act; now it is also time to show our commitment to the European Union operating at international level.
In Iran, the High Representative has already taken over the leadership role, and it is very important that we achieve good results here.
In the Middle East, it is important for us not only to provide funds, but also to get involved, and we should do this for the sake of the issue at hand, not simply for the prestige.
Where Russia is concerned, we need to ensure that we achieve a pragmatic relationship, albeit one based on values, particularly in the interests of our common neighbours.
With the United States, we need to negotiate on equal terms.
Where there are problems, we also need to address these openly so that we can stand together with the United States in the fight against terrorism and in the reshaping of globalisation.
China is a new emerging power, and we do not want to prevent that, but we object to a form of nationalism that is developing a certain degree of aggressiveness, particularly in that region in Asia.
We want to involve China more in the international community, including in the international institutions.
For the High Representative, too, that is surely also one of the most important issues that needs to be addressed, namely to ensure that, in these new international multilateral institutions, we also achieve an appropriate new regulation and new distribution of influence and power, where the European Union is not restricted, but where there is acceptance of the fact that there are also new global players.
All of these are huge tasks for the diplomatic service and ones for which the High Representative needs our full support.
The Belgian Presidency - in other words you, Mr Chastel - has just promised that it will also give due support to the High Representative.
This promise is a good one, and the words of congratulations are also good, but I hope that the foreign ministers also recognise the fact that it does not make any sense to play one of us off against the other, but that there is only one option, and that is for the foreign ministers, the High Representative and us in this Parliament to be able, together, to represent Europe strongly to the outside world.
