Madam President, I, too, would like to express my great thanks to Mr Trichet, Commissioner Rehn and, above all, the Members of this House for such an open and comprehensive debate.
It has been highly objective, even if, towards the end, our honourable Members from Ireland sometimes let their emotions show through - which is quite understandable.
In the brief time that I have available, I would like to mention three points.
The first is the independence of the European Central Bank.
I believe it was right and vital for the Heads of State or Government - under the general leadership of Helmut Kohl, a revered citizen of Europe and, at that time, the German Chancellor - to have instigated the independence of the ECB.
The European Central Bank is the guardian of the euro.
I believe that the euro has been as stable as it has in the recent months of the crisis precisely because, in the final event, we have such an ECB.
I would therefore ask you, Mr Trichet, to continue to act as independently as possible in the months ahead.
If people express their opinions to you, by all means listen to them; but in the final event, the president and managing board of the ECB must safeguard this independence.
Secondly, we need to be more open with the citizens of the European Union.
This is a important point.
Above all, we should not always provide them with information in the language of Brussels, for which we have come in for some criticism, but in such a way that it is genuinely understood by those to whom we are sending the message - the people of Europe.
As far as I am concerned, that is a very important point.
Finally, Mr Trichet mentioned Basel III.
This is another thing that I would certainly emphasise.
We want to implement Basel III promptly.
However, I only want to implement Basel III promptly if everyone at G20 level implements it simultaneously.
We cannot have Europe taking the lead once again and being the sole trailblazer, to the great detriment of our international competitiveness.
I would therefore argue that Europe should actually implement this together with its partners worldwide, or else consider what the alternatives are.
