Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with this EUR 146 million, we are entering an experimental laboratory together.
Firstly, I would like to say thank you, because you have fought to ensure that it was not EUR 114 million, but EUR 146 million, and that the Member States were prepared to go slightly beyond their rather restrictive limit.
As far as the experimental laboratory is concerned, we have four interesting questions to resolve.
The first question is how we can achieve success in the field of energy efficiency.
I believe that, of the three requirements relating to CO2, renewable energy and energy efficiency, the 20% increase in energy efficiency presents us with the most difficult and complex challenge.
This is not just about mandatory national requirements, but about specific projects.
Basically, we are using this manageable programme to evaluate which projects, such as building renovation projects and those relating to the field of energy in general, will be feasible.
I hope that in two or three years, the first assessment of these projects for the next budget period will show that we have had some useful positive and negative experiences with regard to energy efficiency.
I would like to make it clear that in two to three years, we will definitely be more knowledgeable than we are today and that we will have had some good experiences and made some mistakes.
If this is the case, we will have invested the money wisely.
Secondly, this programme allows the European Union to enter into a direct partnership with the municipalities.
This is something which does not happen every day.
It is clear that the energy requirements and consumption in public buildings and in private buildings that can be renovated, in other words, a smart city approach, can only be influenced by the EU via the municipalities.
This means having direct contact with what is actually happening.
Thirdly, I hope that we will be able to demonstrate with this programme that there is European added value for everyone.
If we were only to obtain money from the Member States without providing any added value, we would be unnecessary.
We must offer added value in the form of experience, effectiveness and competence.
In this case, within two years, this programme will give us good arguments that we can use in the budget debates - a poker game involving the Commission, Parliament and the Member States - to obtain more money from the Member States in the interests of all the citizens of the European Union.
This means that this is also an experimental laboratory for more budget funding.
This controversial issue will affect every one of us over the next two years.
Fourthly, we need an experimental laboratory for our partnership with the structural banks - the European Investment Bank (EIB) and KfW Bankengruppe - and with external private investors and funds.
This means a partnership that goes beyond the Commission's offices with companies which have a close relationship with us, but which must demonstrate that they can do more than just manage public money.
This may seem like a large amount of funding, but in fact, it is very little.
This is not about the EUR 146 million.
It is about a four-way test of our partnership with the municipalities, with the EIB and KfW, with the subject of energy efficiency at a local level, and with the proof that at a European level, this is the right area for more budget funding.
With this in mind, I would like to thank you very much.
Let us stay in contact.
I am sure that in two years, we will all know much more than we do now.
(Applause)
