Madam President, I have now been in Parliament for a year and I have dealt with various dossiers, but none of them have been as difficult as what we have on the table here.
At this point, I would like to offer my sincere thanks once again to Mrs Mathieu and Mr Cercas, the two rapporteurs from the relevant committees.
This really is a very difficult matter, and the reason for this is that naturally we have very high ideals in Europe.
We want to treat everyone who lives and works here fairly and equally.
That, in principle, is something we can all agree on as a starting point.
However, the question remains as to how much we can really implement this in detail.
We have already been reminded that with the Treaty of Lisbon, we now wish to draw up a common policy on asylum and migration.
Asylum policy is something close to our hearts, and not just because of the Charter of Fundamental Rights.
We also need a migration policy for economic reasons, because demographic changes are taking place and we have a very urgent need not just for highly qualified workers, but also for less skilled workers.
Basically, the great difficulty here is what to do.
As has already been said - Mrs in 't Veld mentioned it - the Member States stated back in 1990 in Tampere that they wanted to develop a common structure.
Nothing has yet been placed on the table.
In other words, what we have today is a compromise - we are not completely happy with it, but in my view, it is a way for us to move forward.
Speaking personally, I can well understand why some are saying that we need more time for discussion.
I am not completely happy with it either.
It is particularly important to me, for example, that everyone should have access to training and further education, because this is absolutely crucial - not just for the persons concerned, so that they can work in the labour market, but also for us with our real need for workers.
In the case of social security, for example, where we already have so many different systems anyway that have not even been harmonised within the EU, it raises the question of how we can really create a common set of rights for third country nationals in all cases even if we want to.
It is difficult, and that is why I see the compromise that is currently on the table as a good thing.
We really should vote in favour; then at least we will have something.
