Madam President, I would like, first of all, to encourage Mr Almunia to stick with his original proposal of 2018.
This proposal was well-founded and was based on economic, regional, social and energy policy grounds.
I do not understand why the College of Commissioners has introduced environmental reasons which are completely irrelevant.
As previous speakers have said, it makes no difference whether we burn imported coal or coal that we have mined and subsidised ourselves.
Our climate footprint is largely the same in both cases.
In fact, it is probably much worse for imported coal because this has to be transported here from Canada, Australia or other regions of the world.
This is why the justification is wrong.
I would like to thank Mr Rapkay for producing this proposal in close cooperation with the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats).
I believe that it concerns a Council regulation.
There is a loophole in the Treaty of Lisbon which means that regulations on the basis of competition law do not form part of Parliament's codecision procedure.
Instead, the process, which does not involve a proper assessment, is still based on Regulation No 17 dating back to 1965.
Therefore, we now need - at least as far as our statement is concerned - a broad majority vote, so that coal, which is one of the most important energy sources still available to us in Europe, remains competitive in future.
Our group will give Mr Rapkay's report its unrestricted support.
We want to encourage Mr Almunia to prompt the Commission to put forward a new proposal of 2018 and we want to amend two points in the report that has been adopted.
One of these concerns the question of the way in which the aid is to be gradually reduced.
We are of the opinion that this should be left to the Member States over this eight-year period.
The second point concerns the fact that the regulation as a whole will be phased out in 2030.
That is also the stage which the Council's discussions have reached on this regulation.
Only when Parliament makes a clear decision in favour of 2018 will we be able to carry out an appropriate evaluation of the social, political, energy policy, economic and regional grounds.
