Mr President, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity to lead this debate today because I remember that we both always cooperated with Switzerland in the European Council and are therefore both aware of how important it is for Switzerland to participate in these programmes.
In 2006, before these programmes were renewed, we, the European Parliament, were naturally aware that we do not exist in isolation, but that we should try to bring everyone else onboard with us.
Although Switzerland is not part of the European Economic Area, it was interested in participating in the field of training and education.
Like everyone else, I was very pleased with this development.
In 2004, I was part of a delegation that visited the Swiss Parliament's Committee on Training.
We discussed the relevant issues in detail, for example, mobility and cooperation between schools and universities.
It was clear to me at the time that this motion would eventually be forthcoming and I welcome it now.
In drawing up these programmes, we were not just thinking of our own interests, but also those of all neighbouring countries, such as the countries of the Western Balkans and Switzerland itself, situated in the middle.
That is why we have made some good progress today.
Concerning the previous debate, I can tell you now that Switzerland also intends to issue a request to join in the cultural programme.
It is also interested in participating in the cultural heritage labelling scheme, something it can only do if it participates in this programme.
Ladies and gentlemen, what is it that we need to do today?
We can either say 'yes' or 'no'.
None of us would dream of saying 'no' because we have always been in favour of Switzerland coming on board.
I should add that by 'coming on board', I mean that it will also pay its share.
According to Article 218, our only choice is to say 'yes' or 'no', and, of course, we are going to give a clear yes to this.
What are the key points of this agreement with Switzerland?
Naturally, the conditions, rules and procedures for projects and initiatives involving Swiss participants will be the same as for participants from the Member States and the projects they propose.
Switzerland will have to set up a national agency, just as we all have done in our respective countries, that will coordinate the implementation of the programmes at national level and that will be required to make a financial contribution to each of the programmes each year.
In 2011, this would amount to EUR 1.7 million for the 'Youth in Action' programme and EUR 14.2 million for the Lifelong Learning programme.
With reference to the financial controls and audit provisions, Switzerland will be required to adhere to the provisions of the European Union, including those relating to the controls by the institutions of the EU and by the Swiss authorities.
The agreement will remain in place until one of the parties pulls out.
However, I do not believe that anyone would enter into a programme like this with the intention of ever withdrawing again.
It is in the interests of the younger generation in Switzerland and, of course, of the young people from the countries surrounding Switzerland who would like to participate in school exchanges with Switzerland as part of the Comenius-Regio programme, or in individual school partnerships, as well as the Erasmus programme.
Naturally, representatives from the Swiss authorities will be able to attend our committee meetings on points which concern their country.
Let me say one thing here: we are anxious that Switzerland should take the plunge with this step.
It has expressed an interest in such an arrangement for a long time.
It is our hope that European awareness in Switzerland will be strengthened when the younger generation has an opportunity to interact with other young Europeans.
Perhaps this will mean that future referenda will have a different outcome from those in the past.
We are placing our faith in the younger generation and in these two marvellous programmes.
I am confident that the cultural programme will be added in three years' time.
