Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I will simply ask the question: what is the situation with regard to anti-discrimination and the equal treatment of Roma in Europe?
When we now hear that ethnically motivated databases on the Roma - and I believe these databases as such are prohibited - are being set up by the French Gendarmerie, but also by other countries, and, to a certain extent, for preventative purposes, then that really is the limit.
Both in France and in the EU, databases that are primarily used to compile personal data on the racial or ethnic origin of people are quite simply prohibited due to the high risk of them being misused and on account of the risk of discrimination.
Only under very particular - purpose-specific - circumstances, which take non-discrimination into consideration, can the collection of data of this nature be carried out at all.
The Roma must not be criminalised, and that is the crucial point.
Ethnically motivated databases for the purpose of preventing crimes are unlawful.
The Roma must not be the subject of the special collection of data on account of their way of life, and we expect the Commission, in other words you, Mrs Reding, to repudiate any form of ethnic or racist data collection and to work hard to ensure that this is indeed stopped in the relevant countries.
Frankly, I ask myself more and more what it is other than talk, talk, talk that actually happens in this Parliament and in the framework of the EU, and what, in practical terms, we have actually managed to do to improve the situation of the Roma in Europe other than talk, talk, talk.
If we look at the collection of data, we see that the Roma have become scapegoats and people to push around in many Member States of the EU.
They are being deported to Kosovo and, in doing this, France has been contravening EU treaties for months, the principle of anti-discrimination is being violated - and the Commission behaves as if it is satisfied - and I see this rather differently to the previous speaker - with the promise by the French Government to provide the legal basis for transposing the directive on freedom of movement by the beginning of 2011.
In the interests of decency, however, it must be said that France has to put a stop to the deportations of Roma, and it is also important for those Roma who have been unjustly deported to have their return to France facilitated.
In connection with the databases, I would like to ask you: what definite information to you have, what initiatives will you take, if these databases actually exist in this way, and will you initiate treaty infringement proceedings in such cases?
