Mr President, Mr De Clerck, Mr De Gucht, Mrs Reding, we have heard enough already about how important transatlantic relations are; I do not believe that anybody here is questioning that.
The US is one of our most important trading partners and one of our main allies, and as a German, I am acutely aware that what the US has done for us is something that can never be repaid.
Nonetheless, it also has to be said that you cannot negotiate eye-to-eye if you are constantly bowing.
If we, as the European Union, want to have a decent relationship of respect with the US, then it is time we showed some backbone where our positions are concerned.
Mrs Reding, you have once again made it clear that you are the right woman in the right post to do that.
You mentioned fundamental principles of European data protection law, and I believe we can make no concessions on these in connection with an EU-US data protection agreement.
We cannot have a race to the bottom here when we are making an agreement that is primarily aimed at protecting our citizens.
Such protection - the protection of personal data and the safeguarding of privacy - is laid down in a multitude of ways in articles contained in the Charter of Fundamental Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights and the Treaty of Lisbon.
The aim of an EU-US data protection agreement must be to realise this; to uphold and not water down the measures that we have taken and implemented in the European Union.
I am talking here about the rights that you mentioned in respect of access to data, data deletion and correction; about purpose limitation, about proportionality, about the principle of data avoidance and data minimisation.
At the same time, when negotiating such an agreement, we must, of course, also make sure that this does not take place in a vacuum.
It will have repercussions on the European Data Protection Directive that is shortly to be revised, on the data protection directive for electronic communications and on the forwarding of Passenger Name Data that is being negotiated by Mrs in 't Veld.
All this must be seen in context.
Mrs Reding, I believe that when your mandate is negotiated in the Council on 2 and 3 December, it can be assumed that this House will be behind you.
I wish you good luck and every success.
We are with you on this.
