Mr President, I think it is right and proper for us to be championing the cause of a coordinated cohesion and regional policy.
This is extremely important in order to deliver efficiency and to be able to use the money well, despite the limited amounts in question.
I must warn, however, that the plan is to achieve this efficiency by applying one and the same set of rules to everyone.
The funds are very varied, have very different target groups and different contents.
With that in mind, coordination is very important but the same rules are not.
That is exactly what we are experiencing with the European Social Fund at the moment, which is to say that it would be extremely well received by just those little communities, municipalities, if - just as the speaker before me said - for these small bodies on the ground, in particular, such an enormous amount of time and effort did not have to be spent in order to actually be able to access and use this money.
That is exactly what we need though, as unemployment, poverty and socially excluded people are to be found in every Member State of the European Union, not just in certain regions, but in every Member State.
With that in mind, I find it particularly important that the European Social Fund, in particular, should truly continue to be available to minorities, which, to an extent, also includes young people, but also the elderly and often people from an immigrant background, in future and actually, that it should be more available, in order to give these people the chance to enter the labour market, as that is precisely what we are aiming to achieve.
The Europe 2020 strategy represents our attempt to achieve greater inclusion in the labour market for the different groups.
I hope that that will not remain simply a goal; instead, we now have to genuinely provide the measures and the instruments to achieve it.
The European Social Fund is a very effective tool in this regard.
We just need to optimise it and, above all, make it useable.
