Madam President, Mr Almunia, that is exactly the problem.
You are right when you confirm to Mr Lange that it is a Council regulation.
However, it also depends on whether the Commission hears the arguments put forward in the Council and here in Parliament.
You must drop this very stringent proposal, as you have done, so that it is possible for a sensible, democratic approach to be taken, which involves a majority decision that does not require unanimity.
I would like to make a second remark to Mr Chatzimarkakis.
The review clause which you referred to is completely irrelevant in this case.
The disputes which took place in Germany were only intended to save the face of the Minister for Economic Affairs there, nothing more.
Now, I would like to look at the concern expressed by Mr Almunia.
No one here and not even the report itself is questioning the fact that this is a phasing out arrangement, Mr Almunia.
Whether it is sensible in terms of energy policy or technology is another question.
What Mr Geier said is absolutely correct, but we are not calling that into question.
The only question is whether we should do this relatively abruptly in 2014 or whether there are sensible transitional arrangements for 2018.
Otherwise, we are not questioning anything.
The situation is not as described by Mr Lambert, for example, who read out his speech and then left.
He should have stayed here, because he might have learned something.
It is not the case that there are Member States who have done nothing at all.
That is not true of Spain, of Poland, of Romania or of Germany.
In 1990, more than 200 000 people were working in the mining industry in Germany.
Now, 20 years later, the figure is around 20 000.
This represents a drop of 90%, leaving only 10% of the jobs still in place.
There have been a number of pit closures between 2002 and the present day during the period of this regulation, which is still in force.
Let us not behave as if nothing has happened.
The question is whether or not we need a sensible transitional period to be able to achieve this without causing socio-political damage.
I can only say, yes, we do need one.
This four-year period should not be an issue, because no one is calling that into question anyway.
Please take that message back to the Commission.
