Mr President, I would like to endorse the congratulating of Commissioner Hedegaard.
We have learnt a significant amount from the events of last year, particularly with regard to speaking with one voice.
If we compare the situation now with Copenhagen, we can say that we went to Copenhagen with high expectations and we were very disappointed.
We went to Cancún with lower expectations and we nevertheless managed to achieve something there.
I am convinced that next year in Durban, we will actually achieve the result that we are all hoping for.
It is important that the UN process is now up and running and that in the European Union, we are aware that many paths lead to the same goal.
Our common goal is to limit global warming to the celebrated 2 ºC.
We have now managed for the first time to enshrine this in a UN document.
However, even in Europe, we have come to realise that the famous binding agreement is not enough.
We also need to recognise the efforts of other countries - and this, in particular, includes the large emitters like the United States and China.
For us, it is extremely important from a political point of view that we are united in our efforts, and we succeeded in demonstrating this in Cancún.
However, it is also important that, as the developed world, we not only live up to our historic responsibility, we also need to do something, and, above all, we must find a successor regulation for the Kyoto Protocol.
It is also just as important that the developing world recognises that efforts are also required by them.
I believe that we succeeded very well in doing that, and we are on the right track here.
The details have already been mentioned.
For me, what seems to be particularly important is the fact that we have made definite progress, particularly in the fight against deforestation.
The individual countries are called on to develop national strategies, and we will then see what they achieve.
That part is very important for us, including from a political point of view.
We have a responsibility with regard to technology transfer.
We need to take more of a leading role in this regard, but, overall, my assessment is a positive one and I would like to thank you once again, Commissioner, for your efforts.
