Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer my sincere thanks for the statement that has been given here on behalf of the High Representative, and to which I actually have very little to add.
I believe that we can safely say that reforms and greater stability have been decided on, including for reasons relating to parliamentary stability, and that is to be welcomed, but we must also note that although the last parliamentary elections were fair and just, the local elections were not, because they were changed and the opposition did not have an equal opportunity to draw up lists everywhere.
I believe we must also take note of the fact that the head of the secret service also has a top supervisory role in the constitutional court and that judges are being replaced there in order to overturn the constitution of the Orange Revolution.
These are facts.
I would therefore like to express my thanks for the statement that the issues of common values and of fundamental rights play a crucial role.
The European Perspective for Ukraine is, of course, also an important issue.
On the other hand, I am pleased that vital progress was made on important matters at the summit on Monday.
The words of criticism that I have just expressed should not be dependent, or be made dependent, on what happens in this phase with regard to visa facilities.
It is good and important for us to make progress in this area.
It is important that we make progress with regard to the deepened Free Trade Area, which will bring Ukraine closer to the European internal market, and make it clear that not only the political but also the economic perspective of Ukraine lies in Europe.
It does not make any sense to adopt a Russian economic system without having Russian raw materials.
The European market will then be of much greater interest to Ukraine and that should also improve with the Association Agreement.
However, I think that we should be clear in our minds that this is not only in the interests of Ukraine but it is also in our own interests and that we should attach importance to ensuring that the external and internal development of Turkey progresses in a way that satisfies our common interests here.
