Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are discussing the interim review of a successful programme to aid economic recovery in the energy sector.
Up to this point, as part of the implementation of the programme established for us by Parliament and the Council, we have made 43 financing decisions for gas projects, energy infrastructure projects, offshore energy and carbon capture and storage.
This has allowed us to spend around 98% of the entire budget of EUR 3.98 billion and to ensure that the programme has, to a large extent, achieved its objectives.
There were only a few projects which could not be implemented.
We are introducing this amendment regulation with the aim of meeting Parliament's requirements and initiating pilot projects for renewable energy, but importantly, also for energy efficiency.
I regard these pilot projects as an opportunity to trial our activities in the field of energy efficiency, which will be one of the focal points of my work over the next year.
I would like to thank Mrs Van Brempt very warmly.
I would also like to thank all the strident Members of this House and the Belgian Presidency, because we have worked hard in this area over recent weeks and we are able to present a document today which will definitely provide a stimulus in the area of energy efficiency.
In order to ensure that this amendment regulation, which is due to come into force now, takes effect quickly, our officials have already been making preparations for its implementation.
In the next few days, EUR 146 million will be made available for projects which are important to all of you.
Our partners in these projects, chosen by you, are municipal, local and regional authorities which have close links with the projects in question.
These local partners will ensure that the funding is used in the best possible way, for public buildings, private buildings, combined heat and power facilities, district heating networks, decentralised renewable energy sources, more environmentally friendly urban transport systems and local infrastructures, such as intelligent networks, efficient street lighting and smart measurement systems.
This means that we are doing something which will have an immediate local impact and which will act as a benchmark for my future activities relating to smart cities.
If you make the appropriate decision today, our offices will begin implementing the amendment regulation straight away.
In March or April of next year, we will definitely be able to report that our economic recovery programme is having a very positive effect, in the form of both large projects and small, decentralised projects, and is allowing us to learn lessons which will be important in future financial years.
I would like to thank everyone concerned once again.
