Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when we discuss this matter back home in our electoral districts, I believe we will all find that we receive a great deal of support - something that is not a foregone conclusion where European dossiers are concerned - because this issue of late payment as a whole is not merely criticised back home; it is considered by everyone to be a given that payments should be made on time.
That is the case irrespective of which party someone belongs to, and it is not dependent on what branch of industry you talk to, either.
So we have broad agreement.
I would also like to thank my fellow Members who have indicated their agreement with this result this evening.
I would like to mention three more aspects.
As I said at the beginning of the debate, we will set the wheels in motion tomorrow.
However, we will have to look very closely at whether the relaxations that we have introduced for micro-businesses, for agricultural undertakings, for example, and for artisan companies, are actually sufficient to enable these enterprises to obtain the money they are owed.
We will have to examine very carefully how the limited freedom of contract will work.
That is something new in the European internal market that we are now going to try out and that all of us also more or less support.
We will need to examine whether the 8% late payment interest rate is adequate; Parliament would have liked it to be 9%.
We will see how it works, and I would like to ask the Commission to pay close attention in order to ensure that, during the process of implementation, the Member States do not water down the directive.
I also see definite success on the horizon.
I have heard that Spain has already produced new national legislation following our methods, and I know that the same is true of other Member States.
In any case, our Committee will monitor the situation or carry out an impact assessment according to a directive, so that the Member States also know that, when the parliamentary term comes to an end, we will know who has implemented the improved payment practices as we intended and who has not.
I would like to thank everyone who has contributed to this result, including the Belgian Presidency, which has perhaps not received enough recognition for its contribution.
We know how efficiently and constructively you conducted the negotiations - a small country, but I would say a country with very intelligent and efficient methods for achieving results in Europe.
