Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am truly shocked by the ideas that people like Mr Griffin propagate here in the name of climate change.
What fascism has to do with climate change is a complete mystery to me.
I also think that what he comes out with here is scandalous, and I think that such statements have no place in this House, because the problem really is too serious for that.
I am also concerned that we do indeed have an increased rate of greenhouse gas emissions in our atmosphere.
Take a look at the figures produced by the World Meteorological Organisation.
I am also shocked at the low level of acceptance among the population.
Mr Griffin is also riding this wave, and I also find it shocking that the major emitters like the United States and China are not prepared to enter into an international agreement of this sort.
Recall, if you will, the debate that we had here last year prior to Copenhagen.
If we are not too ambitious and enter into these negotiations with realism, then we, as Europe - a less important emitter - can still achieve something.
How can we do that?
Commissioner, I value your enthusiasm, but I believe that communicating with citizens is extremely important.
The people do not understand the problem.
Why is that?
It is because the World Meteorological Organisation's figures are clear - they are average figures.
It is true that in Europe it is currently colder than it was a few years ago, but, overall, we nevertheless have increasing temperatures throughout the world.
This needs to be communicated, and if we do not manage to do that we will not receive support from our citizens, and that will enable people like Mr Griffin to bring fascism into the issue of climate change.
That is the problem.
Therefore, Commissioner, I would ask you to try to make improvements in this regard.
Secondly, let us achieve the switch to sustainable sources of energy with the incentives that we value.
My fellow Member presented the figures.
The best enterprises are in China and here in Europe we are not so good.
We therefore need to come up with some good ideas to get our enterprises to actually achieve this switch.
Are these binding targets really the great cure that they are always hailed to be here?
Of course, we also need to have honesty on the markets.
The things that happen in connection with the Clean Development Mechanism - 60% of the money goes to China - should not be permitted.
To hide behind purely legal arguments in this regard is not good enough.
Let us approach the debate with honesty, because this matter is too important.
You have our support, Commissioner.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
