Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, in the European Union, cohesion policy means that we aim to lend our support to the weaker regions.
It is an expression of major European solidarity.
Solidarity, however, is never a one-way street, and my group therefore backs the principle that all the regions of the European Union must be able to participate in our cohesion policy.
For us, this also means that we will not support any measures of renationalisation and that we do not want to see cohesion policy fragmented into sector-based policy approaches.
We do not need any extra transport or climate protection or energy efficiency funds, but we do need to work on how we reconcile the challenges we face with a sound cohesion policy.
It is therefore clear to us that, alongside a strong Objective 1 area, we also need a strong Objective 2 area, and appropriate transitional rules.
One thing is for certain, and that is that regions need our support at the European level.
The European Union needs strong regions, too, and there is therefore a give and take in both directions.
Of course, we need to review our priorities - clearly, we do need greater efficiency.
My group is therefore four-square behind the proposal, in order, for example, to be able to coordinate rural development much better together under the umbrella of cohesion policy than in the past.
Of course, we also back improving infrastructure, supporting businesses and supporting sustainable economic development.
However, sustainable economic development is only possible if we bring the employed - the people - with us.
In other words, we need employment policy approaches, we need education, we need training, we need people to integrate into the labour market.
That, in turn, is only possible in collaboration with the European Social Fund, under the umbrella of cohesion policy.
We support this, but with dedicated rules, which there did used to be in the past.
We need to really make an effort to improve this and significantly strengthen the social side of cohesion policy.
In the forthcoming discussions and negotiations, my group will be going in to bat for improving and simplifying the usability of the fund.
We need a simplification of the application processes so that, first of all, fewer errors are made, and, secondly, so that access for those people who really want to work can be made easier through this European cohesion policy.
We will strive to ensure that, in these negotiations, a stronger partnership principle really is implemented.
I believe that Parliament's role has been strengthened now that the Treaty of Lisbon is in force.
My group will be arguing the case for this partnership principle.
