Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in her speech this morning, Mrs Harms posed the question of why the spark is no longer being passed from the summits to the people and why new courage and new confidence is not emanating from the summit discussions.
As I listened to you this morning and also just now, Mr Barroso, and to Mr Van Rompuy or the Council, too, I got an idea of why the spark is not being passed on.
The spark is not even passing into the Chamber here - just look around you.
Of course, it is important for more Members to be here.
Why are they not here?
It is wrong for them not to be here.
However, they are not really hearing anything new anyway.
You are telling us things that have already been said in the newspapers many times and you are not providing answers to the very pointed questions that have been asked.
What is happening with regard to the financial transaction tax?
Mr Schulz has asked about this many times.
Where is the answer?
It is not on the agenda of the G20 summit in Seoul.
I would like an explanation.
I would also like to know why the European Council, the Belgian Presidency, said that it is in favour of this, but why the European Council at its last three summits merely said that it recommended a feasibility study at global level but not at European level.
Why ever not?
Does the Council not see the dead end into which you are directing this matter?
I will ask you once again, Mr Barroso: when will Mr Šemeta comply with the demand made by this Parliament at the beginning of this year, namely that we want a feasibility study for Europe, too?
If you present an opinion on this subject, this Chamber will actually be full and we will listen to you.
However, do not avoid the issue any longer.
For Europe alone we are talking about EUR 200 billion per year.
Ask the Members who belong to the Committee on Budgets what trivial, small amounts they are currently arguing about with the Council.
With an initiative we would make progress.
We need to breathe life into the roles, then the spark will once again be passed on.
That is what we expect from you.
