Mr President, I would like to express my thanks for the very lively debate and I would also like to take this opportunity to say a few more words about financial controls.
As I am constantly emphasising at various opportunities, we really must get to grips with this and simplify matters, particularly in view of the fact that we need to make greater efforts to ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises also take advantage of the opportunities that we want to provide by means of European funding and also, for example, the revolving funding that we want to offer more in the future; and we really need to look at how we can keep the red tape to a minimum.
On the other hand, I am also constantly having to point out that a large part of the bureaucracy is added at national level.
In other words, not all the bureaucracy that arises in European projects originates from Brussels; rather, it is the combined effect of processes at national and European level.
We need to work on this together.
Mrs Mănescu, I agree with you that we must make the effort to develop standards in this area - although naturally I cannot dismiss national legislation and circumstances entirely.
In principle, however, I am absolutely with you.
The subject of conditionality is also something that requires detailed consideration which we do not have sufficient time to go into here.
It is undoubtedly a matter of identifying for each individual country and for each individual region, where necessary, the reasons for delays in implementing projects; generally, we know what they are already.
In most cases, it is nothing to do with money - or at least not primarily so - but rather is due to other shortcomings.
The thinking behind conditionality is to get rid of these in advance so as to ensure faster processing subsequently, which is in the interests of all concerned.
I am also grateful to the speakers who referred to the development and partnership contract and to the fact that this represents an opportunity, as Mr Olbrycht said, to push for the further involvement of the regional and local authorities.
Some rethinking will be necessary for this as regards how we can actually implement it in a somewhat institutionalised way, and - let us not forget - in a way that is acceptable to the Member States.
Here, I am relying on and building on the support and backing of the European Parliament, since the European Parliament, the Commission and the Committee of the Regions are of one mind on this.
There is one further player, however, and that is the Member States; we need to convince the Member States that they, too, will benefit from an added value if they involve more people in programme planning and these people thereby come to identify with it far more.
I am also grateful for the comments - which I think came from the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - concerning growth.
I am advocating qualitative and quantitative growth.
We need both.
Take research, for example: this is actually something that falls into the category of qualitative growth.
If it is one of our main objectives to increase the share of renewable energy, for example, but fundamentally we also want to be more energy efficient, then a very important topic for research might be 'How can I store electricity, keep it ready and then make it available when I need it?', so that we can make our power generation even more efficient.
All in all, one thing has become clear: we will only be able to achieve our objectives if we in fact have a regional policy that reaches all the regions of Europe.
As has also been said today, if we want to implement the EU 2020 strategy, we will only be able to do so if we can transport and implement this policy in all the regions, but taking into consideration the needs and requirements that exist locally.
Once again, many thanks - particularly to the two rapporteurs - for this very valuable work.
