Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) would also like to use today's debate to take a general look at the visa policy of the European Union.
Firstly, it is important to emphasise, to make ourselves aware, of the great value of this visa policy to the European Union.
Since we are a common Europe, a common space for people, we are able to create a common visa policy.
Our visa policy is therefore also a sign of European unity - a very successful sign of European unity - and it is important to point that out, particularly in times of crisis.
Secondly, we are calling for clear rules of play when it comes to visa facilitation.
The technical standards that are to be maintained - at external borders and when issuing passports and identity papers - are clearly set out.
We cannot make any political concessions as regards the upholding of these standards.
In 2010, we found that in the Balkans, there was initially a focus on technical standards, but political arguments were then advanced with increasing vigour.
When it comes to visa facilitation, however, one cannot stop at one country; we have to view the area as a whole.
Yes, it is always difficult for us to weigh things up in an individual case.
However, the core of the issue is that the technical standards must be upheld; the criteria must remain.
I therefore also support our Commissioner when she says that these standards that we are demanding must also be implemented in reality.
That is an important task of the Commission, because only then will our visa policy be accepted by our citizens.
Thirdly, I would like to mention that we welcome the fact that the last European Justice and Home Affairs Council discussed enabling visa facilitation to be rapidly lifted or withdrawn from individual states if they fail to implement the standards.
The example of Serbia showed us that the result was a great influx of asylum seekers.
Moving on to my final point, for the time being - when talking about Ukraine and Russia - our group is highly sceptical as regards opening the doors quickly, because we have just seen in the case of Serbia that there will also be negative effects.
We should therefore proceed with great caution when it comes to visa policy.
