on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, Mr De Gucht, ladies and gentlemen, there is a good reason why we are discussing these three reports in a joint debate.
I would like to thank the three rapporteurs for their excellent work.
All of the reports make it clear that all the groups in the European Parliament want to put EU trade policy into a broader context.
The times of tough, one-sided external economic aid should now be over.
Therefore, today's discussion is taking place at a highly appropriate time, because we are holding a debate on the basis of the trade strategy presented by Mr De Gucht, which should include a number of proposals and considerations and also specific projects.
Protecting the climate, the environment and human dignity, together with eliminating poverty throughout the world, have been recognised and acknowledged as joint tasks for all of mankind.
These tasks are much more important than conventional trade interests.
However, it is essential that these objectives are incorporated into modern trade policy.
Increasing social prosperity, as defined by the human development index, and the rule of law are in the best interests of the European economy.
They will enable it to network successfully with other economies.
These things are covered to a certain extent by corporate social responsibility, but they cannot be implemented without a national framework.
I would like to emphasise that my group would like to have seen some of the points addressed in the three reports being taken further.
Although we welcome the fact that companies are living up to their social responsibilities on their own initiative, it is a fact that thousands of people throughout the world discover every day that their rights at best exist only on paper and are simply ignored in their day-to-day working life.
The conditions in subcontracting companies and suppliers, including in the production of raw materials, are often appalling.
This is demonstrated by the films about child labour in the chocolate production industry.
In order to have a sustainable, uninterrupted supply of raw materials and energy, as described in your strategy, Mr De Gucht, we must take these aspects of the three reports into account.
