Mr President, what exactly does European innovation policy do?
What does European research policy do?
If we ask ourselves this question and if we were to ask the citizens on the street, we would just get a blank look.
This is because it is not clear what added value European research and European innovation brings.
For that reason, we welcome the fact that Commissioner Geoghegan-Quinn's proposal begins by providing a definition of innovation.
What is innovation?
Innovation involves making money, a product or a licence from knowledge.
That is something new.
I am pleased that the Commission is going down this path.
However, we also now need 'man on the moon' or 'woman on the moon' projects which are understood by the man on the street, so that EU taxpayers understand what we are doing here with their money.
In this regard, I see great potential in the issue of increasing the number of healthy life years by two.
That would be a project that everyone out there would understand.
I am therefore pleased that the first innovation partnership proposed is being devoted precisely to achieving this goal.
Two additional healthy years of life - that will be understood by everyone and it is something we should do.
In this regard, you have our support.
However, I would like to point out, and Mrs Merkies has already mentioned this, too, that if we simply look at the instruments that already exist, there is the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT), the Knowledge and Innovation Communities (KICs), the Joint Technology Initiatives (JTIs), the so-called Competitiveness and Innovation Programme (CIP) - these are all programmes that already exist.
If we add yet another programme, then we will make the whole area difficult to get to grips with.
This is something we must not do.
The innovation partnerships are intended to make a real contribution to bringing order to this situation and combining everything in a single system.
That is why we will only accept this if it is all made clearer for taxpayers.
We must always know the answer to the question: what brings more European added value?
If that is the case, we will give it our full support.
