author. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon has been mentioned many times today.
I should like to say something positive about it for once.
Most of our citizens think it is a good thing that we can travel in Europe without borders, that we can move freely about Europe for the purposes of education, work and leisure.
However, in so doing, we naturally leave a data trail behind us.
For a long time now, our data has not just been stored in one Member State, but is spread throughout the European Union.
That is precisely why it is a good thing that we have greater powers at European level in this area - which concerns the protection of data relating to European citizens - because our citizens quite rightly expect their data to be well protected everywhere in Europe and they do not expect large amounts of data to be passed on unnecessarily, possibly even to third countries.
How are we, as the European Union - and I will make myself absolutely clear: as the European Parliament and Council; in other words, together with the Member States - supposed to ensure this protection if it is the case that while we, as the European Union, are negotiating with third countries on the forwarding of data - over what data is actually required, the purpose for which it is to be used and the safeguards that are necessary in order to protect this data - at the same time, individual Member States are negotiating with third countries on data?
Especially since we do not even know what data they are talking about, what security standards are being maintained, whether duplicate data is possibly being forwarded, or even whether data is being forwarded that we would not allow to be forwarded at European level.
There is also another aspect that the Member States are perhaps not taking into sufficient consideration.
If a Member State negotiates with a third country, how then can I ensure - how can and will the individual Member State ensure - that only the data of its own citizens is, in fact, forwarded, if any data is forwarded at all?
We now have databases within the European Union that collect data on all kinds of citizens at a central point and to which many authorities in European countries have access.
In other words, if my data is stored somewhere in country A and country A decides to forward data, will my data also be forwarded to a third country?
This cannot be the added value in the European Union that was intended when, for good reason, we negotiated the Treaty of Lisbon.
The Member States, too, need to take note of the new balance of power between the institutions, must act accordingly, and must stick to the rules, which state that data protection is a European matter.
We need to ensure at European level that as little data as possible is forwarded and only for narrowly defined purposes, and that this is not all undermined by bilateral initiatives.
