Madam President, Mr Diamandouros, Commissioner, the institution of the Ombudsman has had a very impressive history in Europe.
Taking a concept originally developed in Sweden, ombudsmen have been trying to resolve disputes and problems on an impartial basis for 200 years now.
I believe that the idea of an ombudsman derives from a deep human need for the resolution of disputes by peaceful means.
This report is the fifteenth such report by the Ombudsman for Europe and the seventh by Mr Diamandouros.
This is a record to be proud of and I would like to congratulate Mr Diamandouros.
When he was elected last year, I expressed the hope that the Ombudsman would do his utmost to ensure that the decision-making process within the EU was more transparent and relevant to its citizens and that we would collaborate effectively with the Committee on Petitions.
I think we can safely say that together, we have succeeded in this.
I still see room for improvement in the coordination between the functions and tasks of the Ombudsman and those of the Committee on Petitions.
We are increasingly in receipt of petitions that touch on aspects of the classic right of petition, as well as elements of the Ombudsman's duties.
I am talking about human rights, property rights and obstacles to economic activity.
It is reasonable and appropriate that we should work together in these areas so that we can tackle the Commission together in a positive sense and get the relevant responses within the required timeframe.
I would also like to welcome the new website with the interactive guidelines that should help ensure that people are made aware of the opportunities available to them to have their voice heard in Europe.
I hope that Mr Diamandouros continues to succeed in his good and important work and that he will manage to introduce improvements wherever possible.
The Committee on Petitions will also continue to do all it can to promote close cooperation with the Ombudsman in the future in the interests of the citizens of the European Union.
