Madam President, I would first like to thank Commissioner Oettinger for having taken up the reins and for having reacted as soon as the oil disaster occurred.
Naturally, we must take into account the fact that the starting point in the US is different to that which we have in Europe.
Nonetheless, I believe that there is a need to act here in Europe too, and there is a need to carry out a thorough analysis of both the actual conditions in Europe and the legal situation in order that we can make appropriate proposals.
We must bear in mind that the legal situation is, of course, complicated by the fact that we are dealing, in part, with international waters and, in part, with waters belonging to the Member States.
I believe that we must look into the matter of where exactly the Community can act as a community and make legal proposals to improve the situation.
Our starting point must always be to create the highest security standards for people and for the environment, so as to prevent such disasters from the outset.
Nevertheless, I feel that it is important that we continue to explore for oil and gas throughout Europe in order to further diversify our energy sources.
That should remain in the back of our minds.
As I mentioned, however, security must take precedence.
I see three areas in which we can act here.
The first is to look at where we need to change the legal situation in the EU.
The Seveso II Directive, the directive on environmental liability and the third maritime safety package all come to mind here.
These are definitely areas which the Commission needs to address and we look forward to hearing your proposals.
The second is the financial framework.
I believe that insurance solutions would offer the appropriate security to enable financial compensation to be provided following disasters.
A third area is emergency management within the EU.
Is it really necessary for each Member State to maintain the full capacity needed to deal with such disasters?
Could we not find a means of cooperating here at EU level and strengthen this so as to relieve the pressure on the Member States a little?
