Mr President, today we have seen fundamental agreement across all the groups in Parliament.
We want a strong cohesion policy and structural policy in all the European regions.
It does not matter whether we are talking about a net contributor or one of the poorer Member States; structural policy remains the strongest expression of European solidarity.
We are helping the poorest regions to catch up with their neighbours, but we are also helping the stronger regions to remain competitive.
Europe will only be able to develop sustainably in areas such as environmental protection, industry and energy supplies, and to conquer global markets, if it can make the best technologies even better.
To ensure that we achieve these objectives, we need clear and fair rules.
This means that the poorer regions must remain the central focus of cohesion policy.
The lower the gross domestic product (GDP) of a region, the more help it must receive from us.
Anyone who questions the use of GDP as an indicator, such as the Greens and, unfortunately, some Liberals and Socialists, is attacking the very roots of European solidarity.
GDP is the guarantee that social force, education and job opportunities are fully taken into account.
Poor regions often cannot provide all these things on an adequate level and they also lose out when it comes to protecting the environment.
Therefore, GDP must remain the reliable indicator for regional policy.
We need to rely on our local authorities and federal states when it comes to regional policy.
We want to implement the Europe 2020 strategy on the basis of the tried and tested principle of the joint development of programmes, joint administration and regional cofinancing.
For this reason, the calls for independent EU funds for employment, climate protection and energy must not be allowed to become reality.
If we were to replace regional policy with a stronger sectoral policy, the only winners would be new EU agencies, and our local authorities and federal states would be mere onlookers with regard to regional policy and cohesion policy.
I am very pleased that the European Parliament has taken up a clear position on behalf of the regions.
This has to do with accepting the European idea.
We cannot force people to accept it.
The acceptance has to develop from the bottom upwards as part of regional policy.
