Mr President, I think it is good that you have been counting, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn.
I did not know how many speeches had been made, but 37 really is a lot.
I would like to thank everyone who has taken part in the debate today.
Right at the beginning, I also forgot to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their work.
We really have worked together very constructively and I enjoyed it very much.
I have covered a lot of subjects in the report, because it is very important to me to have a convincing majority in this crucial area.
Many of the speeches on different subjects have highlighted the fact that we need joint action on research, planning, implementation and control of maritime activities by means of joint governance, spatial planning and monitoring.
This is what the report is all about.
However, it is a very varied subject.
I should now like to discuss a few of the speeches.
Mr Fleckenstein raised the problem of the sulphur emissions.
We have included it in the report because it was important to us that there is no distortion of competition, but we also need to make sure that shipping is more environmentally friendly.
However, what you said about shipbuilding, Mr Fleckenstein, is not quite true.
It is not the case that the Liberals and the Conservatives did not want to include this.
It was simply a question of how we should implement it, of whether we should create a new fund at a European level for refitting old ships or whether we should put in place a strategy.
That is the current wording.
The subject of my amendment was also raised, which I introduced in order to include emissions trading in the report.
In the committee it was rejected by a very small margin, but in my opinion we are all convinced that we must continue to follow this route.
For this reason, I am hoping for support in these areas.
Mr Kohlíček, you said that it was difficult to link all the areas together, but I know that this is possible.
A group of stakeholders and business people from all the different maritime areas meets twice a year to share ideas.
These are prominent players at a European level and they all very much value the opportunity to come together.
My last point concerns the reference to the fact that there are so many different regions.
I have included the position of islands in the report and it is not true that this has been omitted.
The only area not covered by the strategies is the North Sea.
I live closest to the North Sea and, therefore, I wanted to mention that when we talk about the Black Sea, the Mediterranean and the Danube, we should not forget the North Sea.
Finally I would like to express my thanks, in particular for the remark that we should take moral responsibility for the sea and for future generations.
This is why I have chosen the title 'We need a new awareness of the sea'.
If we continue to work on this, we will be able to achieve a great deal.
