rapporteur for the opinion of the Committee on Fisheries. - Mr President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, firstly I would like to thank Mrs Meissner for what is, in the truest sense of the word, integrated work, not only because it concerns the integrated maritime policy, but also because it includes all the specialist areas.
As far as fisheries are concerned, I would like to say once again that fisheries and aquaculture, of course, make up a substantial part of the integrated maritime policy.
It is important for me also to mention once more that we in the European Union produce around 2 million tonnes of fishery, fish and aquaculture products, but we consume 8 million tonnes.
We are one of the largest export regions for fishery products in the world.
Therefore, we are faced with particular challenges when it comes to protecting our resources.
One decisive point in this respect which has already been mentioned is maritime spatial planning.
It is important for us to identify where the priorities lie.
Fishing grounds and protected areas definitely have a high priority, together with the shipping routes and, of course, in this context, maritime safety.
Particular care must be taken in very busy shipping lanes.
We have been talking a great deal about renewable energy.
The offshore wind farms which are being built in large numbers to generate energy must also be included, from the perspective both of fisheries and of maritime safety.
This represents a major challenge.
There is one other subject which I would like to bring up in this context.
We must promote research and development with regard to fishing methods.
The EUR 50 million made available by the Commission will not be enough.
I would like to ask you to take this message back with you, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn.
The integrated maritime policy will, of course, not come to an end at Europe's borders.
We need to work together with our neighbours.
We only need to think about Iceland, the Faroe Islands and what has happened there in recent years, the Mediterranean region, Libya and Egypt which present a major challenge.
