Mr President, Mr De Clerck, Mrs Reding, Mr De Gucht, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) supports the joint motion for a resolution and would like to thank those who have spoken here.
We must understand - ahead of the EU-US summit and now, as the G20 summit takes place - that on many issues - not just economic issues, but also in matters concerning peace and environmental protection - only a joint response by Europe stands a chance of being realised on a global scale.
For this reason, we would like to have closer cooperation here and, as the European Parliament, are also endeavouring to achieve this with the new majorities in the US Congress, which play a major role in this context.
Mr De Gucht realises this in the case of the Transatlantic Economic Council (TEC), Mrs Reding in the case of data protection, and we also saw in the case of SWIFT that parliaments play an important part when it comes to realising this.
Together, the Europeans and Americans - who still account for 60% of the world's gross domestic product - have a chance to lay down such standards and give a positive response to the challenges of terrorism, matters relating to Iran and the Middle East, climate change and many other issues besides.
We need to make the appropriate efforts here.
I therefore hope that we can move forward on these general political matters and that progress will be made in the TEC, which has been revived by Mr De Gucht's efforts.
I hope that the original objective can be realised there so that we can remove trade barriers to arrive at a transatlantic market, which could generate a lot of growth for us while avoiding unnecessary costs - and also, Mrs Reding, moving forward on matters relating to fundamental rights, data protection and similar issues.
It is necessary to ensure data protection, but for a variety of reasons, we also need to have an exchange of data.
It is therefore a very good thing that we are attempting to agree on common standards here despite our different legal approaches.
If you will allow me to make a further comment, in this instance on matters relating to financial markets, it must of course be said that while legislation has been passed to ensure that the events of two years ago cannot be repeated, the Fed has now, for example, decided to place USD 600 million on the market without consultation, with the result that naturally, there are fears concerning inflation and other things and some turbulence in the global economy.
It will not help us if exchange rates do not develop correctly relative to each other.
