on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, first of all, I would like to say that I share the concern about the intensification of the situation and the undemocratic developments in Ukraine.
There are more and more reports about the repression of the freedom of expression of journalists, regular threats to committed individual members of the NGOs and people working for democratic development.
The role of the secret police, too, gives real cause for concern.
However, I do not believe that the altercations about freedom of the press and democratic development in general begin with the last election, rather - and I have said this here often - all the leading players in Ukraine have repeatedly abused their power for purposes including bringing their own interests to fruition.
This abuse is getting worse and that really must concern us.
We would be doing ourselves no favours if we were to adopt this resolution without being worried about certain economic developments in Ukraine.
I am watching with just as much concern how Russia's influence on the Ukrainian economy, its energy sector, but also other sectors, has been systematically expanded.
I would therefore also advise that we do not have to vote tomorrow but instead after the delegation has visited Kiev - a delegation is going there the weekend after next - and before we have the summit here, after careful preparation in all areas to agree what the European Parliament's position actually is regarding the situation in Ukraine.
I have gone down this path from the pre-democratic times to the new times with numerous Ukrainian friends.
Ukraine was on a very good path.
It was our impression that the last elections took place in accordance with democratic conventions.
If the situation should not now improve, but instead worsen, we should nonetheless consider very carefully how we intervene and how we do not intervene.
In any case, I would advise against making a decision before our next visit to Ukraine.
Our voice will be louder if we bring up the debate on the things about which we have spoken in the resolution over there.
As I say, I really am concerned.
I am receiving a lot of reports that everything is heading in a negative direction.
However, we would be doing ourselves no favours if we were to rule out debate on the ground over there and make too fast and too hasty a decision.
