Madam President, Mr Chastel, honourable Members, we are all agreed on the magnitude of the disaster in the Gulf of Mexico.
Damage has occurred that will have long-lasting adverse effects on the environment, on nature, on culture, on tourism and on fisheries, and these can only be partly mitigated by financial means.
Nonetheless, we should be thankful that we are dealing here with a capable company such as BP, which we can expect to do all that can be done in terms of providing financial compensation where appropriate.
We are in the process of finalising a communication.
In no more than two weeks' time, the Commission will officially consult on this subject and issue its communication.
I am here today to listen to your expectations, under the general leadership of Mr Leinen and his specialist committee, along with Mr Reul.
I can tell you that we will be incorporating Parliament's expectations and specialist statements into the communication that will be issued in two weeks' time at the latest.
A few days ago, we received a statement from BP that at least contained sufficient self-criticism and which also proposed and announced voluntary steps and remedial action that can be taken by the industry.
We are paying close attention to what is going on in Washington, which is currently somewhat delayed by the electoral campaign, but we note that the government in Washington wishes this very serious incident to have far-reaching consequences for US legislation and policy.
We aim to formulate the highest security standards worldwide for the waters within our reach: the North Sea, the North Atlantic, the Baltic Sea, the Black Sea, the Mediterranean and the Atlantic off the coast of West Africa.
We have authority in our own territorial waters, but we are also endeavouring to pass on these standards to areas beyond our borders.
Mr Leinen indirectly referred to Libya.
We are also concerned with drilling that affects our coastlines and seas, but which does not take place directly in our seas.
We are talking about oil, and also about gas.
We are talking generally about offshore exploration and extraction of hydrocarbons and the best possible level of technical security.
We note that the United Kingdom - the UK - and Norway can be assumed to have the most experience as well as high, acceptable standards, and we therefore consider it particularly important to cooperate with the government in London and with the Norwegian Government.
Firstly, we want to check the security precautions for future licences; in other words, what higher or highest standards are possible for new authorisations.
Secondly, we want to look into upgrading existing rigs, some of which are 20 or more years old.
The standard that was acceptable at that time is not comparable with what is feasible and politically expected today.
Then there is the matter of regular checks.
We need to increase the density of our control network, and increase the frequency and quality of checks accordingly.
There are also questions relating to insurance law, such as the matter of how far we can make comprehensive insurance cover obligatory for companies engaged in extraction so as to minimise and remedy any damage - at least economically and financially - as far as possible in the event of a worst case scenario.
A further matter that concerns me is how we can export our security standards to other parts of the world.
If BP now intends to carry out extraction and build rigs off the coast of Libya, then this gives us an opportunity to approach the European energy industry - namely BP, Shell, Total - and obtain voluntary commitments that they will voluntarily accept and apply the same strict standards that they are obliged to adopt within the territory of the European Union in these neighbouring regions as well.
In specific terms, this means that an offshore oil rig off the coast of Libya that is built and operated by BP, or perhaps a rig off the coast of West Africa that is operated by a European energy enterprise, should and must maintain the same standards as those operated in the North Sea where such standards are enshrined in law.
Overall, then, please give us two weeks.
We are on track to meet the objectives of our communication.
Any other expectations that you, the honourable Members, convey to us today will be taken into account and we will be sure to present legislative proposals for what is set out in our communication in the first half of 2011.
