Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is, of course, completely normal in the European Parliament to begin by thanking our fellow Members, but in the case of this directive, I believe that it is actually appropriate to start with this expression of thanks.
First of all, I would like to thank Commissioner Tajani, who, in a way seldom seen before, accommodated the requests and the justified concerns of Parliament in the work of the Commission in an unbelievably open manner.
This really was a very positive new development in the cooperation between the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
In this regard, I can only endorse what has already been said about this: this is smart regulation and we could do with more of it.
However, I believe that we in the European Parliament were also able to help to enable this directive ultimately to end up in the Council with this result, which has already been described by many fellow Members as positive.
Between the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Internal Market and Consumer Protection, we followed a common cross-committee strategy.
We worked closely together, including across the group divide, and I must say that, as a representative of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), I would like not only to offer my thanks, but also to express my respect for the rapporteur, Mrs Weiler, for the fact that - although at the start she had a different content defined - as rapporteur for this House, she ultimately represented the vote, the majority opinion of the Committee, in a very serious and very emphatic manner.
Without that, this success would not have been possible, despite the significant work performed by the shadow rapporteurs.
Finally, I would just like to mention one point.
There is one area that we have so far mentioned only very briefly and that is the EUR 40 that it will be possible, in future, to charge as a flat rate in the event of a late payment.
I believe that when this measure is implemented in the Member States, when consumers get to know about it, we will have to attempt to explain this many times, because in the case of a completely normal delivery of goods, EUR 40 is actually a good means of preventing these late payments that we want to put a stop to in Europe.
I believe that the Commission and the Member States will still have to exert their influence on public opinion in order to enable consumers to understand why this is necessary in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe.
