Mr President, Commissioner Andor, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by thanking Parliament for giving this topic such a prominent place on the agenda at a time when Brussels is having the last of its 'open days', with over 6 000 stakeholders in the city and more than 130 events and seminars intensively working on the issue of the relevance and the future shape of regional policy.
As has been said more than once, regional policy and cohesion policy need to be very intensively linked to the Europe 2020 strategy in future, including in the next funding period, so that we really do achieve the European added value that we talk about again and again and that now needs to be realised.
It is important, in this context, that we coordinate Union policies better in order to truly deliver a common offering, an integrated approach, including towards the Member States.
The keywords must be focus and flexibility.
We must focus on a few priorities from the Europe 2020 strategy that are important to us and we need flexibility in the tailor-made solutions in the implementation in the regions and in the Member States.
I think it is also important that we develop a system of incentives that operate on the basis of clear agreements on objectives with the regions and the Member States so that, alongside proper financial management, which has been very important, and will continue to be so in future, the elements involved in focusing on results, too, are actually brought more strongly to bear.
This is because it is absolutely crucial that, right at the beginning of a period, we also agree with the regions and the Member States what our objectives are and that we also agree on and lay down measurable targets and then strive to implement these accordingly through the projects.
Ultimately, one thing that can and should bring about good cohesion policy, with its varied elements, is being the engine of growth in the European Union.
We have a Stability and Growth Pact.
It is a cleverly put-together cohesion policy for all the regions, which ultimately bear the responsibility for ensuring that the growth element of the Stability and Growth Pact takes effect, so that Europe, and its national economies as a whole, remain competitive globally and are able to further improve their position in the international context.
It will therefore also be necessary to adapt and develop the framework of support accordingly.
What is required, in other words, is an increase both on the product side and also of the volume of finance involved that enters the realm of financial engineering, in the knowledge - and against the backdrop of the overstretched budgets of the Member States - that, in this regard, we need to do more to develop products for private individuals in order to co-invest in certain regional projects, in particular, those that also guarantee a source of revenue, so that we leave other funding available for projects that are just as necessary but that cannot guarantee any revenue in that sense, such as investments in the education and training sector, in modernising universities and laboratories and so on.
Over the next few weeks, we will be presenting, together, the 5th cohesion report and its conclusions.
The report will put forward much of what I have been able to say in these few minutes, and much else besides.
Regional policy, cohesion policy, however, is a kind of policy that is capable, including under the auspices of shared management, of making European policy something that European citizens can see and grasp.
Two million projects, as in the current period, can only be realised if we work together with the Member States and with the citizens in the regions.
