Mr President, there is huge potential for cooperation between the EU and Ukraine.
That was evident at the summit.
The Action Plan towards visa liberalisation and the Association Agreement are just two examples that demonstrate this.
In this compromise resolution - and this is evident from the aspects from which this resolution is put together - we have also highlighted the potentially positive aspects.
However, I would like to quote an English proverb, which says that the proof of the pudding is in the eating.
Whether the reform package and reform laws will actually be implemented in practice remains to be seen.
The Commissioner mentioned the Law on Public Procurement.
A major exception to this has just been adopted.
All procurements in connection with the European Football Championship have been excluded from the scope of this law.
I can already very well imagine who will grow wonderfully rich as a result of this.
Thus, this is an example of the principle being held in high esteem, but things looking very different in practice.
I would like to expressly thank the Commissioner for expressing concern about freedom of the press, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression and also clearly stating that the local elections represent a backward step.
At least that was how it was expressed in the German translation.
That is also the view of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), and we have also expressed that view very clearly.
If Mr Severin is claiming that there is no need to internationalise internal conflicts, that to me is a nicer way of putting what was previously referred to as the principle of non-interference in internal affairs.
There has been too much of this, and this should not therefore be the principle that guides our actions in respect of Ukraine.
Precisely because we want to bring this country closer to Europe, it must also allow itself to be measured by European standards.
For that reason, Mrs Harms is right in what she said, namely that we must now remain in very close contact with Ukraine and ensure that what has been achieved there in terms of democracy and human rights is not called into question once again by a backward-looking policy.
