Madam President, Commissioner Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, tomorrow, the European Parliament will adopt a directive on combating late payment that will make history.
It is the first directive that can quite simply be explained in three sentences: firstly, public authorities will, as a matter of principle, have to pay within 30 days in future if no shorter payment targets have been agreed and if no special circumstances make a payment target of no more than 60 days necessary.
Secondly, when agreeing payment targets, enterprises have freedom of contract within 60 days and payment targets of more than 60 days are no longer permitted, except if expressly agreed and if it does not pose a serious disadvantage to the creditor.
Thirdly, if the aforementioned payment deadlines are exceeded, recovery costs of at least EUR 40 and interest of at least 8% above the European Central Bank base interest rate can be charged without a prior reminder.
This directive will help small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe to a great extent to improve their liquidity, and they will not need to accept as much credit from the banks.
Debtors with a strong market presence will no longer be able to force small and medium-sized enterprises into granting longer payment deadlines, and that is a good thing.
Furthermore, individual Member States will not only be able to retain shorter payment target deadlines in the form that has been customary up to now; we assume that, in fact, they will be retained, because we cannot imagine that the Late Payments Directive will lead to a deterioration in payment practices within the Member States.
Enterprises that do business within Europe know that, in future, their claims will be settled after no more than 60 days.
This is a huge step forward and a further step towards the completion of the European internal market.
We can be very satisfied with the adoption of this legislation.
It will help small and medium-sized enterprises and it will help the European internal market.
