Madam President, thank you Commissioner Barnier for the work you have done.
It was no easy task that you had and you have included something of what Professor Monti set out in his report and what Mr Grech drew up for the European Parliament.
We can also see something of that in there, as well as the attempt to take the holistic approach, which has not succeeded in quite the way we imagined it would, but is nevertheless on the right track.
It is also very important that you make it absolutely clear that you are attempting to make the social rights of citizens, which should, of course, be at the heart of the European Union's legislation, a reality.
However, on behalf of my group, I have to say that we feel some things in this text are too vague, too simple or too insignificant, or are missing altogether, because one of the crucial demands that we had, and which you also agreed to, was for a social clause to be included in all important areas of European policy.
We cannot find this social clause.
A commitment to carrying out social impact assessments could satisfy us.
However, a social clause is significantly more than what we find here in this text.
We will endeavour to help you so that we make progress in the right direction, because this is very important to us.
There is another point that I find quite problematic and that was also very important to our group.
We are calling for collective redress.
We want collective redress for citizens so that they are also genuinely able to assert their consumer protection rights.
On behalf of the European Commission, you announced that more studies are to be carried out.
Studies have been carried out in this area for three years.
I think it is time for us to get on with it and for us to actually receive a legislative proposal from you, not merely another proposal for a study to be carried out, so that we can see how we can move forward from here.
As you see, there are some things that we are satisfied with, but other things that we are not so happy about and we will work hard with you, the Council and our fellow Members from the other groups to ensure that we ultimately have a genuinely good text.
