Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in critical situations, Europe has always found a way out of a crisis.
Not because different interests have been played off against one another, but because we have combined our interests, which has allowed us to take new paths.
I would have liked to ask Mr Barroso a question, but unfortunately he is no longer here.
There will, of course, soon be important press conferences on the subject of how we can rescue Europe using the lowest common denominator, but Mr Rehn may be able to pass my question on.
I do not understand why we are not taking the following route.
Eurobonds are a sensible solution.
Mr Schulz has said that on behalf of our group and, in Germany, where this is a critical issue, my party is saying the same thing.
The German Government in particular has reservations and there are also reservations in other countries which are paying less interest.
Why do we not proceed as follows?
We are saying that these problems can be solved.
We are now planning to launch eurobonds, but we are putting together a sensible package.
What do we need to enable Europe to act?
How can we put money into the coffers?
How can we create more taxation potential for a sensible, long-term economy?
We are launching eurobonds and we are linking this launch with the introduction of the financial transaction tax in the European Union.
This package could result in a win-win situation, which would enable everyone to benefit.
Ask Mrs Merkel at the European summit if she is prepared to do this.
Why is it not possible?
Why does the Commission not make a proposal of this kind?
It would help everyone and enable a major new project for Europe to emerge from the crisis.
I am waiting for the Commission to make this proposal.
You must stop trying to talk your way out of it.
It is time for you to act in the interest of the citizens of Europe and in the interest of the Member States, so that we can find our way back to a sensible path of growth.
Our fate is in your hands, but you must have the courage to take the initiative now.
