Mr President, in the Committee on Regional Development, we also had great expectations of the budget review.
After all, the European structural and cohesion policy is a success story, particularly in recent years.
The contribution of the Cohesion Fund to overcoming the crisis is considerable, particularly in the poorest regions.
The horizontal approach in connection with the objective of competitiveness and employment is producing encouraging results.
Never have EU funds been utilised more efficiently, never have we brought more small and medium-sized enterprises into international networks, and never have the regions been better prepared to utilise the European programmes.
The use and absorption of EU funds gives a very clear and encouraging signal here.
With this progress, even the irregularities in connection with the use of the Structural Funds could be significantly reduced.
The Court of Auditors, scientists and the regions inform us of these matters, but, unfortunately, not the Commission or the Member States.
They are noticeably unforthcoming.
There has not been a genuine mid-term review of the budget in relation to the Structural Funds.
I very much regret that, because the tail wind of a budget review would have provided good reasons for continuing with structural policy.
Of course, there is a need to adjust the content to the 2020 goals.
The resources must be used more efficiently in many areas.
However, the goal structures and cooperation with the Member States and the regions have more than proved their worth.
We have missed an opportunity here also to prove this by carrying out a genuine review of the budget.
However, ladies and gentlemen, Parliament has a good memory.
When we talk about the future financial perspective, we will bring up the successes of regional policy.
When we talk about the reliability of the policy, we will defend the long planning periods for the structural funds.
When we talk about future budget reviews, we will call for these to be mandatory, because regular budgetary reviews also contribute to transparency.
We must take that more seriously in future.
