Mr President, I have a comment that I would like to direct to Mr Harbour.
That sounds great, Mr Harbour, but I still think that we have some work to do on our side, too.
It cannot be a coincidence that we debate the issue of toy safety in Parliament in the run-up to each Christmas, as we are doing again this year.
Just last year, it was the carcinogenic substances in toys known as softening agents that we were debating.
Commissioner Verheugen promised us specifically over the last year that there would be new studies and that he would take action where appropriate.
These studies have been on the table since the middle of this year.
According to the study by SCHER, the Scientific Committee on Health and Environmental Risks, the limit values for the PAHs - the carcinogenic substances - are too high.
The methods of testing, too, are not reliable enough.
We need to give this some thought.
My questions to the Commissioner are, how will he deal with what he has inherited in this regard and what action will he take as a result of this criticism and in this field?
The limit values for heavy metals, too, especially for lead, are 'no longer appropriate', to quote another SCHER study.
What does that mean for us?
If we make adjustments for the heavy metals, will we provide different limit values in the comitology procedure?
I call on the Commission to take action in this area, too.
In addition, we are also still awaiting the promised limit values for noise made by toys that is deleterious to health.
We were promised these values when we passed the first reading; they should be presented to us soon.
I hope that we will have these values soon.
Last but not least, I would also like, once again, to come back to the issue of market supervision, as the best directives are only worth as much as their market supervision, which ultimately ensures the monitoring of compliance with the directives, and of course, to the tariff issue.
Mr Tajani knows, of course, that we would be happy to collaborate with him in this area.
In the shape of Mrs Schaldemose, we have a rapporteur who is looking to bring about further moves in this very area.
We will work closely together on this.
This will be the next important step, alongside the issue of the limit value for heavy metals and for carcinogens.
