Madam President, Baroness Ashton, the NATO Summit in Lisbon is of great importance for the EU and for Parliament, because we can only manage European security successfully in future if NATO, the EU and other organisations, such as the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), each make a contribution and cooperate effectively.
However, until now the results of the summit in Lisbon have essentially been glossed over.
I would like to say, with just a hint of irony, that although NATO has a new strategy, it still does not know where it wants to go.
The overblown fantasies of NATO as the world's police force have been discarded and that certainly represents a certain amount of progress.
It is taking a slightly more modest approach, but there is still not enough clarity.
Let me demonstrate this using some examples.
1.
One example is arms expenditure.
The Member States of the European Union want to reduce their arms spending by means of permanent, structured cooperation, but NATO is signing uncovered cheques for missile defence.
The Secretary General says that the amount is EUR 200 million, but all the experts believe that the missile defence system is more likely to cost between EUR 40 billion and EUR 70 billion and we do not even know how it will be managed.
2.
A second example is nuclear disarmament.
President Obama's Global Zero vision in Prague was impressive and we welcomed it.
Europe was no longer in agreement even at the conference on the non-proliferation treaty, but NATO is determined to hang on to its nuclear deterrent, like a blind person clinging to a lamp post.
Former world powers, in particular, obviously find their nuclear weapons much more attractive than an ambitious European policy for nuclear disarmament.
3.
The third example is peacebuilding and civil conflict resolution.
The European Union has achieved a great deal in this area.
Then along comes NATO and also wants to be involved.
The next thing that NATO expresses an interest in will be development policy.
Unfortunately, it has a split personality in security policy terms.
Let us bring this to an end.
Let us ensure that we produce a white paper in a year's time which makes it clear what sort of security policy we want in Europe.
