Mr President, I would like to express my sincere thanks to all my fellow Members, including my appreciation of their valuable contributions to the debate tonight.
After the vote in the morning, we need to shift our focus to the future.
Naturally, we are looking forward to seeing how the individual rules and regulations turn out - the Commission has now announced that it will table its proposal for the Measuring Instruments Directive (MID) by the end of April.
It will then also be possible to check whether any of the individual legislative regimes that we are removing from circulation are to be incorporated.
It is important, as Mrs Comi also said, that no legal vacuum arises.
Mrs Gebhardt, I can tell you that that was also a very important concern for the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and it was one that we were able to follow up on.
For me, however, it is also important to mention that the Member States are required to document even more strictly why certain aspects or elements should be retained, as it is only in those circumstances that we really need European regulations; they are not an end in themselves.
I am also looking forward to the Internet consultation that the Commission has announced and which will take place between 6 September and 1 November 2011.
The consultation will also involve the companies affected, the authorities and so forth.
Once again, I will be listening closely to businesses.
When it comes to the existing directive, too, I checked whether these measuring instruments were still in use and, as it happened, the response every single time - for example, from my wine growing association, which I asked about alcohol meters - was that such items of equipment certainly are not used any longer.
We therefore need to look very closely into this.
If we really do want to make progress towards this target of cutting red tape in Europe by 25% by 2012 - and that, of course, is no longer very far away - we need to make major progress in this area.
We, as Parliament, are ready to play a part.
Finally, I just have one more thing to say about the correlation tables.
I want to state, at this point, that, once again, what we have here is a compromise, but, with regard to the future, I would like to call on the Member States to commit to actually drawing up these tables because this really is about a uniform implementation of the rules and regulations throughout Europe.
