Madam President, when I took over responsibility for the situation in the beekeeping sector in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development from my German fellow Member, Reimer Böge, 16 years ago, another German MEP said to me rather disparagingly: 'Oh, I see, the little creatures for the little countries'.
Since then, I have tried hard to make it clear within the constantly growing EU how important these little creatures are, not only for our quality of life, but also for our survival.
In the meantime, we have made continuous progress in raising awareness at all levels within the EU of the need for a comprehensive common policy to ensure that there are enough bees in the EU and enough beekeepers of all ages to look after them.
This has become all the more important as a result of the high levels of bee mortality in many regions, which have given rise to justified concerns about whether there are enough bees and beekeepers to meet our needs.
This is why I have launched this initiative in the form of an oral question to the Commission with a debate and a resolution.
I am very grateful for the fact that this resolution has been supported by all the groups in the House.
The objective warrants the joint action by all the political groups on behalf of our resolution.
It is brief, clearly structured and easy to understand, which is not always the case in this House.
We make it clear where the problems lie.
The specific solutions that we are proposing have been worked out in very close cooperation with the beekeeping sector.
Beekeepers from many Member States have come to Strasbourg today with their products, but also with their concerns and expectations, to highlight the fact that they need our help in solving their problems.
When you consider that, from a budget of more than EUR 140 billion, only EUR 32 million has been spent on safeguarding three quarters of the food production and four fifths of the plants which are dependent on pollination, it should be clear to everyone here that the important task today is to ensure the continuation and the development of this policy beyond 2013.
That is our message.
I believe that it will be heard, not only in Parliament, but also in the Commission, in the Council and in the Member States.
In any event, we will make sure that this happens.
I am making an urgent call to all the Members of this House to be present for the vote and to vote in favour of this resolution.
We owe this to the bees.
It is true that they are hibernating while we are having this discussion.
Incidentally, I believe that the discussion ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
I just wanted to say that the Conference of Presidents, which thinks it is a good idea to put this discussion at the end of a night sitting, needs to do its homework in order to understand the importance of bees in Europe.
