Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by saying that I am impressed by the number and quality of your ideas, critical comments and constructive contributions in respect of what was presented by the Commission as a draft Energy Strategy for 2011 to 2020.
I would like to thank Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska for her presentation, for bringing together the contributions from her fellow Members in an intelligent way and for the establishment of priorities, which is something that I personally feel is important.
We will be pleased to include your report in our work in the coming weeks, as the next few weeks are going to be very busy as far as energy policy is concerned.
The Energy Council on 3 December, followed by the unique opportunity for the Heads of State or Government to address the issue of energy on 4 February, will provide impetus for our common goals and for the Europeanisation of energy policy.
As far as I am concerned, Parliament is a crucial partner in this.
The position we are starting from could be described as extremely difficult.
We have a single market that is not yet complete.
For 12 years it has been the law for electricity and gas, but it has not yet become reality.
We have more sub-markets and regional borders, and we must do everything we can to ensure that in the next five years the single market can also be implemented for industry and consumers with the goal of greater competition and transparency.
Secondly, we have a patent lack of infrastructure.
If you look at the foundations that exist in the single market for other products, goods and services - roads, railways, airways, airports, the digital world, waterways - you can see that we are still a long way from what we need in terms of infrastructure for the transport of energy, in particular gas and electricity, in order to meet our European energy policy objectives, namely to enhance the security of supply, solidarity, competition and consumer interests.
We need to make up some ground in the next two decades in terms of what has been developed in the last two centuries in the case of road and rail and in the last ten years in the case of the digital world.
This has to do with acceptance by the people and transparency.
We need transparency in order to achieve greater acceptance for the development of infrastructure for electricity and gas, and we need the appropriate financial resources, which have to be provided primarily by consumers via energy prices, but which, where there are European interests involved, are also a public responsibility of the European budget.
Thirdly, we have a largely untapped potential in the area of energy efficiency.
Anyone who, like us, is dependent on imports and at the same time wants to make progress in terms of sustainability, climate protection and environmental protection must oppose energy wastage and lead the way with targeted energy initiatives, energy saving and increased energy efficiency in the public, industrial and private sectors.
Energy efficiency will therefore be the next item on the agenda for both of us.
I await with great interest Parliament's own-initiative report, which is close to completion and on the basis of which our strategy for energy efficiency will be presented to the general public, yourselves and the Council next spring.
Another part of our strategy is the issue of affordable energy.
The Belgian Presidency rightly points out that electricity in particular may also cause a division in society as a result of the fact that energy is becoming more expensive and therefore no longer accessible to everyone.
This means that we must extend the security of supply in our strategy to include the area of affordable energy for industry and jobs and for private households.
Research is another important aspect.
Europe cannot take care of everything, but energy research can be a point of focus for the European budget over the next few years and for a partnership between the public authorities and the industry carrying out the research.
Then there is the matter of external relations, the external dimension: Mrs Kolarska-Bobińska has already drawn our attention to this.
We need a common, coordinated European strategy in our external energy policy where the major interests of Europe are concerned.
We are still the largest market for energy in terms of consumption, ahead of China and the United States.
If we focus our purchasing power and our infrastructure strategies, we will have authority.
If the old principle of 'divide and rule' comes into play, others will find it easier to oppose us.
We do not want that to happen.
With that in mind, I would like to thank you for your diverse and intelligent contributions and your report.
It will guide me in my continuing work on our strategy, which we will subsequently put to the European Council.
(Applause)
