Madam President, let me begin with a detail.
Commissioner Potočnik - whom I hold in very high esteem - gives figures in dollars, although he then converts these into euro.
Mr Deva also gives figures in dollars.
I have not looked into this in detail, but actually it demonstrates to us that the debate on biodiversity has clearly not yet arrived in Europe.
Apparently, we in Europe are not yet capable of forming our own opinion on this and I think it would be a good idea if we could take this debate seriously enough to actually translate what it means in concrete terms into figures.
I believe this is an elitist debate far removed from what is actually going on in the homes of our citizens.
I believe that until we succeed in getting this debate into the homes and households of Europe, then we have no hope of it gaining political weight here in Parliament.
In other words, I believe that the communication strategy that we should now adopt is simply to take this matter to the people, as I said, and once we know how people react, then we can set ourselves specific goals.
The Commissioner has mentioned some very specific objectives.
I hope he will be able to get these adopted in Nagoya and I also hope that the Community will speak with one voice.
That is always the big challenge at these international conferences.
I also believe that money alone is not enough.
Many of my fellow Members have called for additional funding.
That may be one way, but it is not sufficient to ensure success.
Secondly, as I mentioned, we need to change our communication strategy; and thirdly, we need to improve the quality of the data that we have.
It is clear that much data is still lacking and I believe that this is an area in which the Community, with its research problem, could yet do something specific.
As you know, my pet subject is water.
If we get the new fisheries policy off the ground, for example, then we will have a great deal of catching up to do as regards species that need protecting.
The fisheries ministers will probably pass excessive fishing quotas again, and biodiversity will once again be pushed to the sidelines.
For that reason, I believe this gives us a real opportunity to show in this House that we are serious in what we say.
Let us see what shape the proposals take then.
