Mr President, Mr Caldeira, Mr Šemeta, ladies and gentlemen, we have a very good day ahead of us, because for the first time, we can expect the Barroso II Commission to cross the 2% barrier.
We do not really need the tolerable risk of error.
This is why the Court of Auditors' report that has been submitted to us definitely represents very good news, in particular, for all of those who are working in this area.
It is clear that when the Commission makes a genuine and determined effort, it can come up with the results.
If we look at these results in more detail, it is obvious that they are in part due to the changes in the regulations.
This is definitely the case and this is the route which we must take in future.
If the Commission could bring itself to revise the directive concerning public procurement and genuinely make things simpler for public bodies in the Member States, this would certainly be the biggest step that we could take towards a positive statement of assurance.
I would like to say to everyone who constantly maintains that the European budget is exposed to major risks, it is true that European spending should certainly be subject to more consistent controls than national spending.
European money is monitored more consistently and has to be accounted for more consistently than many areas of national budgets, as always becomes clear when we visit the Member States, because the national regulations have only been put in place as a result of the European regulations.
Therefore, we simply need to encourage the Member States and call on them to subject their national spending to the same controls as European spending and vice versa.
I would like to thank the Court of Auditors, but I would also like to say that I am disappointed by this annual report.
I have already mentioned that the annual report contains significantly less information than it did in the past.
We need details of the error rates.
We have always been given this information for the structural funds, but this year, for the first time, we have not received it.
We are not at nursery school here.
We in Parliament rely on having this information.
When I look back at the hearing involving the members of the Court of Auditors, I recall that they promised to work closely together with Parliament.
I do not believe that this promise is being kept.
