on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, I am amazed at how raucous the debate on the deepest crisis that the European Union has experienced for a long time has suddenly become.
When we realise that we are currently defending Schengen, that we have been unable to defend the freedom of the press in Hungary during this Council Presidency, that we needed a long time even to begin to find a common European language with regard to Libya and Egypt, then it is no wonder that, in the face of the worsening situation in Greece, all we can say is that, although we now have many leaders in Europe, we have no leadership.
I believe that that is one of the major problems that has not been properly addressed.
In this crisis that has lasted much longer than the Greek crisis, we are also in a situation where all of the solutions that the Council comes up with are coming too late and are too narrow in scope.
The idea that the European Union can only continue in the way that we want it to and also provide a better life for all Europeans if we rescue Greece and stabilise the South is one that has not been communicated at all up to now, and I believe there is actually an institution responsible for this and that is the European Council.
I would say that Parliament is not always a shining example, either.
For example, Parliament refused to come together in good time prior to this historic Council meeting to adopt a resolution to address the problems relating precisely to this historic crisis.
I found it very regrettable that even those Members on the left who sit here to my right were not able to gather themselves together in good time to make a statement on behalf of Parliament with regard to Greece.
I would like to take up the subject once again of what is wrong in Greece, because I think that Mr Daul has a responsibility towards Nea Dimokratia.
However, with regard to justice, the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament also has a responsibility towards Mr Papandreou and his government.
As pleased as I am that he received a vote of confidence yesterday, the Greek Government will also be involved in deciding on fair programmes in the crisis.
The fact that this is so unfairly distributed, that the burden is only being borne by the lower sections of society, that no capital levy is being introduced in Greece and that tax evasion is also widespread in Greece is an unfair situation.
The national solidarity that was mentioned must also result in the elite in Greece, who are after all even today still profiting from the crisis, also taking their share of the responsibility.
(Applause)
We stick by everything that we have already said on many occasions with regard to Greece.
Longer timeframes, more favourable loans - we believe that there also needs to be a gentle, systematic and secure rescheduling of debt.
I believe that it is an expression of the incompetence of the political leadership in the European Union that what we have recognised to be right, namely that private creditors must also share the burden, is not implemented because we are afraid of the credit rating agencies.
Therefore, the issue that brought us into this crisis is still the dominating factor and so far there has been no political leadership to tackle this.
I believe that this is the main issue that needs to be discussed during the European Council meeting in the next few days.
Mr Barroso, I wish you luck with your plan for fairer taxation as a way out of the crisis.
I do not know whether you are still pursuing the financial transaction tax.
We are still in favour of it.
This Parliament has expressed its support for this many times.
However, I also believe that tax evasion, unfair bonuses and all the factors that helped to cause the financial crash have not as yet been addressed.
That is also your responsibility.
Thank you for your attention.
