Mr President, following the confidence vote yesterday in Athens with the result that we are all aware of, the Bild newspaper in Germany printed the headline 'Greek leader has survived - Europe can breathe a sigh of relief'.
I have to say that I was also pleased with the result of this vote, but I think it is far too early to breathe a sigh of relief.
This is because we now need to put the substantial austerity package successfully in place in the next week.
That is the next big test.
Even then, we will be a long way from being able to breathe a sigh of relief.
Further steps and measures will still need to be taken before this crisis is overcome.
I believe that what has been said here is right.
The people in Greece need a light at the end of the tunnel.
However, I would also like to make it quite clear that the people in the countries from which most of the aid is coming also need a light at the end of the tunnel.
They have the feeling that they are giving and giving and giving and there is no end to it.
In Greece the people have the feeling that they are saving and saving and saving and there is no end to it.
That is why a growth strategy is so important.
That is why privatisations are crucial to break open and liberalise this encrusted economy.
That is why it is right for us resolutely to promote and support the reduction of public debt in Greece.
Democracy has to endorse this.
What is happening with respect to Mr Samaras is totally irresponsible.
However, it is right for us to give guarantees for investments, for example.
It is also right for us to draw out unused EU funds, Mr Barroso, and make them available to Greece, because ultimately it will not only be Greece but the whole of Europe that will benefit from more growth.
If we look ahead slightly, one thing is also important: the Stability and Growth Pact must be strengthened.
We must prevent future crises.
This is where this reverse qualified majority comes in.
No ordinary citizen will understand what that actually means.
To put it plainly, either the Stability and Growth Pact has this strange technical element that I have just mentioned, and then the Stability and Growth Pact will have teeth, or else it does not.
Then we will not be able to support this package.
Reverse qualified majority voting in the preventive phase of the Stability and Growth Pact is absolutely essential as far as we are concerned.
Mr Barroso, I am extremely pleased to hear you explain once again that the Commission is of exactly the same opinion.
I would like to see substantial support for this project from this House.
