Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, reports on implementation represent an extraordinarily arduous task and they promise little media attention, but they are of major significance for the shaping of Europe's internal market, particularly in the present era.
I would therefore like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who helped produce this report, in particular, the rapporteur and our shadow rapporteur, Mrs Handzlik.
The Commissioner made reference to the fact that 90% of all newly created jobs in Europe's internal market are in the tertiary sector, which is to say the service sector.
In my view, and that of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) at least, this means that the delay in implementation that has admittedly taken place and is taking place in only a few - but nonetheless in some - Member States must be brought to an end without fail.
We ask the Commission to truly take serious action to ensure that the Services Directive, which has already been in force for some time, can be genuinely ready for use immediately.
Since 90% of all jobs are created in this sector, that also means, secondly, that the Commission must regularly review the scope and examine whether there is not a need to incorporate further sectors - admittedly possibly very small ones - into the scope.
Thirdly, I would like to point out that the creation of the point of single contact - which has been mentioned in various ways already - represents the nucleus of a European administrative law.
Obviously, I therefore do understand the odd complaint from the Member States here or there about bureaucratic processes in the mutual evaluation - as Mrs Gebhardt made reference to.
However, if you want a single market, ultimately you have to work to ensure its functioning and success.
For that reason, Commissioner, I am extremely pleased to see that you have in any case already received a thousand draft notifications setting out amendments made by the Member States to their national laws.
I hope that you continue to receive them.
All of this must not serve to burden local communities with layers of bureaucracy but is instead designed to ensure that the single market for service providers is viable.
