Mr President, first of all, I would like to congratulate and thank the rapporteur and my fellow Members who were involved for their work.
It was not easy to reach a compromise on this issue.
That is also due to the fact that many people, including in this House, naturally do not agree with the result 100%.
Some people were for it, others against.
However, I would like to caution, from the outset, against the absurd situation whereby those who expect more link up with those who expect nothing and between them, they collapse the whole deal.
I therefore hope that those who want costs to be internalised, and who even view this deal as very small progress, will support this compromise here.
That is, to a large extent, the view of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats), if not all the delegations, as we support the internalisation of the costs in all types of transport and we also support the use of resources to promote mobility.
For us, that was one of the most important points.
For us, it is not about making transport more expensive, as has just been claimed.
Making transport more expensive does not make it more efficient.
For us, this is about having a proper balance, so that those resources that are partly earned in relation to mobility are also invested in that area.
Another important factor for us is interoperability.
We do not want technically different charging systems across Europe - the idea of 27 different systems in future is unacceptable.
I hail from a border area, and driving around the area for half an hour, you can face road tolls six times!
That is not sustainable.
The Council needs to be somewhat more flexible in this regard than it was in the past.
We are also putting an emphasis on environmentally friendly goods vehicles.
That means that we are also indicating a course of direction in this connection and, as has just been said, what we have introduced in this regard is not mandatory, with the result that those who favour the internalisation of costs are certainly not satisfied in that respect.
I personally would also have liked this to have been mandatory in all Member States.
We have had this debate so many times in this House.
What do we want tomorrow?
Do we want 27 different charging systems, or do we want all the Member States to work to the same rules?
Or do we have to wait for further crises before we hear the call for action at European level again?
For me, the Eurovignette, too, makes one thing clear, namely, that only Europe brings the answer.
Different charges in individual Member States do not.
(Applause)
