Mr President, Baroness Ashton, thank you for your clear statement.
The increasing number of attacks on Christians and the growing levels of religious intolerance are highly alarming.
We must make clear our condemnation of these acts, because we are supporters of religious tolerance, freedom and diversity.
I would like once again to express our deepest sympathy and regret concerning the attacks on Coptic Christians in Egypt.
This was a heavy blow not only against the Coptic Christians themselves, but also against the tolerance which is still widespread in Egypt.
I say 'still' advisedly, because unfortunately, it has now been put at risk.
On behalf of my group, I would like to express my very deep regret about the way in which Christians are being treated in Iraq.
The aim of overthrowing Saddam Hussein was not to bring about the lack of tolerance of Christians that we are seeing now.
However, there is also intolerance between different Muslim groups.
Therefore, our group believes that it is particularly important to take decisive action against intolerance of other religious views and especially of religious minorities.
I hardly ever make written statements, but I was happy to become involved in this case at the invitation of Mr Maurer, because it is so important for us to combat growing intolerance and to work together to overcome it.
I am pleased that we have a joint resolution and a joint basis for action.
However, in just the same way that I clearly condemn these attacks against Christians on behalf of my group, and not just the recent violent attacks, but also other discrimination, I would like to state specifically that I very much regret the growing Islamophobia in certain circles in Europe.
This is simply an argument, which is admittedly wrong and invalid, but still another argument that allows certain radical Muslim forces to find a cause, a reason and a justification for discriminating against or even attacking Christians.
All of us, whatever our views of individual religions, must admit that people have the right to practise their religion in peace.
The existence of an aggressive, violent minority, whether it consists of Muslims, Christians, Jews or members of other faith communities, can never provide a justification for attacking other religions.
