Madam President, Mrs Győri, Mr Dalli, ladies and gentlemen, we are all disappointed and that is obvious, but I do not think that the responsibility lies with the European Parliament's negotiating delegation.
In my opinion, the Commissioner and the Minister who are present are not responsible either.
On the contrary, it was other representatives of the Council and the Commission who rushed to do their duty and identify problems in third countries which were not fully discussed.
Mr De Gucht and representatives of the finance ministries, for example, from Germany, which is my home country, painted horrific pictures of trade wars on a larger scale than the banana war and a number of other issues.
I do not believe that any of this had a basis in fact.
Yesterday, I had the great pleasure of meeting with representatives of the American embassy from my country, who had come especially to Strasbourg and even spoke German with me, to discuss issues relating to food policy.
The arguments of the American diplomats were not sufficiently convincing to prevent us from being able to find a solution.
I asked them what their opinion on the subject was and I did not get the impression that it would have been impossible for us to come to an agreement with the Americans if we had wanted to.
What particularly surprised me was that the Americans gave me this document describing origin labelling in the USA.
For example, minced meat must be labelled in the USA.
It must be clearly stated on a pack of hamburgers where the meat comes from.
How can we talk about a trade war if, at the same time, we want to label cloned meat and the meat from descendants of cloned animals?
We should have made more effort in this area and not said immediately, as soon as the Americans expressed their doubts, that we could not do this.
I am calling on the Commission to see this as an argument for producing a new proposal.
We must be more self-confident if we want to implement this in the face of opposition from third countries.
