Mr President, it is not possible to deal with all of this in the short space of time available, but allow me to address two or three points.
The first of these points relates to the issue of navigability.
This is an issue for which we need to find a clever, ecologically acceptable and economically justifiable solution.
There are two approaches that can be combined intelligently.
First of all, we need to energetically engage in work such as developing ships' hulls in order to lower energy consumption and lessen the negative impact on river beds.
Secondly - I believe that too little attention has been paid to this hitherto, and I agree with all those who believe that ships should be adapted to the river, not the other way round - we should free ourselves of the notion that ships need to be of the same size right along the Danube.
The ships that sail the Mediterranean are not the same ships that sail the Atlantic, and vice versa.
We know that the average distance for freight transport is around 800 kilometres and I am convinced that if the choice available is sufficiently attractive, then that distance, too, could be reduced.
It is therefore also interesting to consider whether it would be possible, in this regard, for us to also put in place or offer adequate choice in relation to ship size for different sections of the river.
One issue that will also be of importance in this context that has been mentioned a number of times is what is known as 'multilevel governance'.
In this regard, we are in a position to try something out, an approach that we intend to put in place quite vigorously in the forthcoming programme period, specifically, an attempt to truly involve all parts of society in the development, but, in particular, also in the implementation, of this strategy.
In this connection, I absolutely share the appraisal of Mrs Kadenbach and others.
There is an incredible enthusiasm here that must be channelled - bundled, if you will - in order to create the corresponding added value.
We can tell that there is a real fervour and passion amongst the population.
In basic terms, we now need to jointly realise what we essentially already promised.
In this regard, all I can do is call once again for us to truly put into practice the interventions that we have jointly envisaged.
Above all, I would like to stress once again that there is enough money in principle, at least for the time being.
What we have to do is use the money that is available to create the corresponding added value for the Danube and for the citizens, all 115 million of them, who live along it.
