Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, I would firstly like to say a few words on a subject that is close to my heart and that, of course, is Croatia.
I hope that we will succeed in taking a decision to allow Croatia truly to be accepted into the European Union now.
The Commission has done a good job here - Commissioner Füle, you yourself Mr Barroso and also the Hungarian Presidency in this regard.
It would be a good and important signal to a problematic region like the Balkans if the country that has completed its task well were to be next in line.
When I say 'completed its task' that does not mean that all of the problems are solved.
We have just experienced some unacceptable situations in Split in connection with the Gay Parade.
However, it is important for the government to stand up for fundamental freedoms and fundamental rights.
Allow me to add a few words with regard to Greece.
Mr Barroso, you said that it will be difficult to explain it to citizens if we do not come up with a solution, for example in connection with the economic governance package.
However, Mr Barroso, it will also be difficult to explain it to citizens if we only concentrate on austerity.
You talked about growth and said that we need something to promote growth - but what exactly, Mr Barroso?
You cannot believe that austerity alone will lead to growth if we do not at the same time offer alternatives.
Mr Verhofstadt mentioned a few problems.
It is not only left-leaning economists - in its economics section yesterday, for example, Le Monde, which is not a left-leaning newspaper, made it quite clear: austerity on the one hand - yes, we need certain restrictions - but we also need growth and investment.
When there is talk of privatisations, Mr Barroso, you know exactly how to force Greece quickly into a wave of privatisations now - just as Mr Bisky said, things are being sold off.
However, we must give Greece time to privatise those things that it is sensible to do so at a point in time when it will receive an adequate amount of money for them.
Secondly, we have to say that we also need to invest some of the money.
If you say that you want to release regional funds and resources from the Structural Funds then we need to move away from the obligation for cofinancing, because otherwise Greece will not be able to use them.
These are all proposals that we are waiting for from the Commission, Mr Barroso.
We are in favour of a frugal policy and of savings where these are necessary, and we are in favour of restrictions and restructuring measures.
However, it will not work without growth.
At the end of the day, if we carry on as we are, we will not rescue Greece or our banks, nor will we save our taxpayers; we will instead end up in chaos.
Therefore, Mr Barroso - and this of course applies to the Council, too - in addition to the structural measures, we also need growth.
Proposals for growth and employment are crucial for the future of Greece and also for that of Europe.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure)
