Madam President, Mr Füle has just made it completely clear that Turkey and the European Union need one another.
We are important neighbours, we are allies in NATO, and many people of Turkish origin live in Member States of the European Union.
We must show respect for one another.
I very much support visa facilitation for businesspeople and students, just as you have said.
I am also in favour of integrating Turkey much more closely into the structures of the common security and defence policy.
I would like to see Cyprus bringing an end to its blockade in this area.
When we look at North Africa, it is clear that Turkey is a role model for many countries in the region.
All of this is very good.
Then we come to the accession process and we find that many chapters are blocked.
It is extremely difficult to open new chapters.
There are only three chapters left and the competition chapter is almost at the stage of opening.
What will happen when the last chapters are opened?
Will Turkey and the European Union no longer have anything to say to one another?
That surely cannot be the case!
Therefore, we must consider very carefully how to progress with the accession process and whether or not we can retain the current procedure, which involves Parliament commenting on the Commission's progress report by means of a resolution.
Our 2010 report is highly critical, but also constructive.
It deals with fundamental rights which are self-evident, particularly for Liberals: freedom of the press, freedom of speech, expression and assembly, student demonstrations, trade union rights and freedom of religion.
For years, we have been calling for improvements in freedom of religion, but far too little progress has been made.
The arrest of Ahmet Şık and Nedim Şener and the interference in the work of political foundations in Turkey are giving us great cause for concern.
This is covered by the first Copenhagen criterion.
It is a central issue, because it is the political criterion.
If Turkey cannot move forward with its internal democratic constitution, I believe that we will still have serious problems in some areas, quite apart from the deadlock in the Council.
In diplomatic terms, we need Turkey and Turkey also needs us.
In democratic terms, there is still a great deal to be done in Turkey.
