Mr President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, there is something we need to recognise and it is something that we have not yet learnt, namely that we often have to work with undemocratic regimes because many countries in this world are ruled by dictators.
In so doing, however, we must not forget to work together with civil society.
We need to do that in order both to support human rights and to develop democracy.
My second point is that we need to recognise that stability is not the only decisive factor.
Real stability will only come about if we support freedom.
If we do not seize the opportunity now and provide assistance to the courageous people in these countries, there is a risk that we will then find ourselves in a vacuum and unable to bring about a change - a wind of change - as we did in 1989 in Central and Eastern Europe, but instead we will see a situation like that of Iran in 1979.
Providing assistance now also means stability and security for us - freedom and stability go hand in hand.
I am therefore thankful that, after the difficulties during the start-up phase of our new service, the External Action Service and the Commission are clearly now making progress and coming up with sensible proposals.
In this regard, it is important that we not only improve and enhance our assistance from a structural point of view, but also offer - whether our offers are accepted is up to the people there - to help these countries to build democratic structures so that they are in a position to enter into a democratic contest and so that the democrats win the elections and not, at the end of the day, those people who are perhaps organised by a military regime or the Muslim Brotherhood.
In this regard, we need to be more courageous and perhaps set out our programmes in a slightly more intelligent way than we have done in the past.
I hope that we are on the right track here.
If we achieve this, we will no longer make many of the mistakes of the past and we ought to use this to seize an opportunity for ourselves.
