on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in these economically difficult times it is quite right that the European Parliament should play its part and should be prepared to apply self-restraint and self-discipline, even though we are still engaged in building up our own institution and have been assigned new responsibilities under the Treaty of Lisbon.
I agree with the previous speaker that we did well to negotiate a reduction in the budgetary proposals from the Bureau, which originally involved an excessive growth rate of 5.2%, down to an increase of 2.3%.
However, an increase is still an increase, even if it is probably below the inflation rate.
So, we are not really making savings, but rather reducing growth.
We really should be honest enough to call a spade a spade.
With regard to the issue of the House of European History, let me say this: in principle the majority of my group is in favour of the idea of a service for the citizens of Europe informing them of our history since 1945.
However, this also requires that a business plan should be put in place and that all the conditions currently being formulated for tomorrow's vote by majority decision should be met.
This is the only way to pursue budgetary policies that are responsible, truthful and transparent.
This also means that if there is a genuine desire for this change in priorities, which will involve an investment of EUR 60 million in the coming years, then, in the opinion of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, we will also have to make savings in other areas, rather than just limiting increases.
For example, in the case of flights within the European Union of less than four hours' duration, we believe there is no need to fly Business Class.
This would save quite a considerable amount.
More bicycles could be provided for the employees and Members of Parliament here in Strasbourg instead.
I would like to close with a comment on the political sleight of hand in reassigning funding for youth employment.
Of course the Greens also want to increase spending on youth employment.
However, this is part of the Commission budget.
If this money is taken out of the European Parliament budget, then we will be cutting the resources available to the new financial supervisory body or the Food Safety Agency, for example.
Is that what we really want?
Is this the signal this House wants to give to our citizens?
No, this is the wrong decision.
We need to strengthen these regulatory agencies, making them fit for purpose, and the funding for youth employment schemes must come from the Commission's budget.
That would be the right thing to do from a political perspective.
