on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, Mr Oettinger, it is true that the European Union has already done a lot in relation to Chernobyl and its aftermath.
Nonetheless, the question remains whether we have done enough, whether we can ever do enough and whether we always do the right thing.
In my opinion, there are still some major gaps that need to be filled in the area of the health issues arising from the fallout.
The dispute relating to the continuously falsified figures from the International Atomic Energy Agency needs to be teased out.
I believe that the European Union, whose territory is affected by roughly half of the fallout from the disaster - I use the present tense 'is' advisedly - must look to its own interests here.
This is very important.
The international consequences that we, as an international community, must suffer are by no means limited to the territory of the former Soviet Union, Belarus, Ukraine and Russia, because more than half of the fallout following the fire and explosion fell on the territory of the European continent.
So, I would encourage you to examine the need for a new evaluation of the incident's impact on health.
Many former employees of the World Health Organisation would be pleased to find their work assessed in a different light.
My next concern is the local clear-up operation.
The large new shelter is currently the subject of much debate.
Why is it that we still do not have a risk analysis for Sarcophagus I?
Why is it that we are unable to understand the problem that exists there?
How can it be that a project of this magnitude is being managed without a transparent risk analysis?
I also wonder how it is that we still have no explanation for why it has not been possible to remove and store the spent fuel rods from Chernobyl Reactors II and III, which were shut down correctly?
I regard that as a huge problem.
My third point is that we in the European Union have been on the threshold of nuclear meltdown several times since Chernobyl and long before Fukushima.
Forsmark is a good example of this, Paks is another, as is the Brunsbüttel nuclear power plant in Germany.
The stress tests now proposed are incapable of describing the risk that faces us in the existing European nuclear power plants.
For this reason I would ask you, Mr Oettinger, not to try to pull the wool over our eyes.
You promised tough safety tests.
What has been placed on the table so far cannot be taken seriously.
