Madam President, President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been reminded once again of the force of nature and we are seeing the limits of human capability and how we are at the mercy of these powerful forces of nature.
At such moments we can only show solidarity with the Japanese - a solidarity that is expressed in our thoughts and prayers, but also in practical assistance.
When the Commissioner mentions that we are providing aid, trying to provide relief and support people, that is an important measure that not only provides direct assistance, but also provides some comfort.
I also know that it is not just the state organisations that are doing this, but that many of the citizens of Europe are prepared to donate, to give their own private money.
In my home town alone - where I am a patron - EUR 50 000 was collected within three days, and the money is still coming in.
This is happening all over Europe.
It shows that there is a high level of support.
At the same time, we should pause for thought and not immediately start pressing our buttons for internal political purposes.
Undoubtedly, however, we will look at the experience that has been had and the lessons to be learned from the nuclear incident and will have to carry out the stress test, and I hope, Commissioner, we will do this at European level - because borders are meaningless when such incidents occur.
We must ensure that we create the necessary infrastructures for alternatives and that research is carried out into possible new energy projects, which should equally address issues such as climate change, jobs and competitiveness.
We also need to realise that the words 'ancillary risk' will play a different role.
People no longer have faith that companies will observe all the regulations and that there is nothing that cannot be calculated.
Japan will change our thinking on these issues and consequently we need to rethink the issue of ancillary risk; new conclusions will be drawn and must give rise to new considerations and new policies.
We should discuss this with the calmness that it demands.
