Madam President, grinding, mixing, cheating - these are the three buzzwords of the feed industry in Germany.
Since 1999, there have been five dioxin scandals in Germany alone.
Feed manufacturers and large food companies are clearly not concerned about EU directives and national legislation when it comes to making large profits with cheap food.
Competition for the lowest price in the food market is fierce in Germany.
Feed for intensive livestock farming is therefore intended to be as cheap as possible.
State checks are rarely carried out on feed and food producers.
The state has increasingly relied on self checking by the manufacturer and saved itself the expense of employing qualified staff.
Under these conditions, technical fat waste contaminated with dioxins was able to find its way into the feed and foodstuffs chain.
The current dioxin scandal could have been prevented if the fat had been tested for dioxins before it was mixed into the feed.
The contamination would then have been detected in time.
Numerous consumers have now been contaminated with additional dioxins once again.
Eighty percent of our intake of dioxins enters our bodies via foodstuffs of animal origin - in other words, meat, milk and eggs.
Foodwatch is rightly demanding that feed manufacturers be placed under obligation to test every batch of feed ingredients for dioxins and PCBs before they mix the feed.
Absolutely no ingredients that do not comply with the limit values may be included in the feed.
Highly contaminated batches must be destroyed, and it must be possible to prove that this has indeed been done.
That is the only way to prevent further adulteration and dilution of contaminants.
Laboratories must also be placed under obligation to report cases where the limit values are exceeded to the national supervisory authorities.
We need to introduce a labelling requirement for meat to enable its traceability.
The current and previous food scandals in Germany have shown that routine state checks on the feed manufacturers and animal producers are essential.
How do you intend to implement that Commissioner?
