Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a comprehensive strategy for the Danube region that brings together all the affected regions, their peoples and Member States is a major boost and offers enormous potential for sustained development for the entire river region.
Economic and ecological aspects can be balanced in a rational manner that will point the way for the future.
Social problems can be resolved together.
The biological and cultural diversity of the entire area along the river can be successfully marketed in joint tourism projects.
The most important point, however, is that such cooperation should primarily aim to avert destructive flooding.
We can all well remember the years when many parts of the region experienced need and misery.
That is why it is important for the regions along both the upper and lower parts of the river to collaborate in a joint strategy for the Danube region under the European Union, aiming to sustain the natural character of the river.
Which is not to say that innovation and progress are to be abandoned.
After all, it is possible to learn from the mistakes of the past, rather than repeating them.
That is why the ships need to be adapted to the river, rather than vice versa.
We have an enormous opportunity here because we have the technical expertise at our disposal and the potential within the region is huge.
This may entail enormous innovation and a worldwide marketing strategy for the entire river region.
In this context, it also seems important to me that the European Parliament should correct one item in the Commission's proposal in its resolution: as in the Baltic region, an important international agreement for joint cooperation on river-related issues already exists; this agreement represents a consensus and has resulted in this joint statement which permits the conservation of the river, while, at the same time, allowing for its development as a transport route for ships.
It is very important that the Commission should not go beyond this.
In order for this to happen, we need independent experts and, above all, transparency.
Experience in the Baltic region has shown that transparency and the involvement of local people play a key role in ensuring that the measures taken in the river area enjoy broad support, that we carry out our work with the future generations in mind, and that such a cooperative approach is successful.
It makes a great deal of sense to use the available funds here and to consider whether all of the measures originally planned were correct and how corrective measures can be taken in the interests of rational, ecologically and economically balanced cooperation and development throughout the Danube region.
