Madam President, Mr Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, naturally, we should discuss the costs that are to be avoided or saved in this budget.
However, I would call on you all to be a little more objective in your knee-jerk responses to the discussion in relation to the agencies.
Why is this?
Firstly, because the Committee on Budgetary Control is permanently engaged in this debate and also draws attention to ways in which cooperation between the agencies and the performance of their duties can be improved, and also because we are expecting a special report on the agencies this year from the European Court of Auditors and will then have a more objective basis for what is, at present, a somewhat ill-considered discussion, particularly with regard to the question of how the agencies are managed and how we may be able to achieve these savings.
Speaking of savings, I would like to come to my next topic, our building policy.
The fact is that when it comes to the buildings of the European Union, we can certainly save resources.
Speaking personally, I would question whether it is really a good idea to build new buildings for the European Parliament in Brussels because this strategy really only makes sense if real estate prices in Brussels continuously rise.
At present, the market would not seem to support this.
If real estate prices on the market do not rise, then the option of renting rather than buying really does make sense, particularly when you walk around the European quarter with your eyes open and see how much office space is actually available to rent in the area.
Which brings me to the issue of the House of European History.
I believe that greater legitimacy is required here because it is not enough that to date, all the initiatives for the establishment of the House of European History are simply based on resolutions by the Bureau of this House and have no democratic legitimacy.
This needs to change.
Above all, we need to know how the operating costs and follow-up costs of this institution are to be covered.
