Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report is a proper, reasonable offer by Parliament to the Commission and Council for the further development of the budgetary basis of the European Union in difficult times.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Garriga Polledo, and the committee chair, Mrs Haug, for their work.
You have both done an excellent job.
Despite all the political differences between the various groups, our work was characterised by a struggle to find joint European solutions.
Other institutions could have a little more of this spirit.
We want to have genuine own resources, as described in the Treaty.
Irrespective of other income, the budget is to be financed solely from own resources.
In other words, we are being faithful to the Treaty when we demand this.
By the way, let us bring an end to all of these extraordinary targeted rebates.
This debate should be conducted jointly with our colleagues in the national parliaments without prejudice and with less foaming at the mouth than is evident in some capital cities and commentaries.
At the same time, we want to know that the unity of the budget is protected and that budgetary policy is not to be taken away from the community budget.
When we discuss expenditure, we must refer to the obligations that result from the Treaty of Lisbon.
We must provide sufficient finance for the EU 2020 strategy to which we have all committed ourselves.
Growth is the basis for economic and social activity.
We must discuss European added value and the necessary synergies between the national budgets and the EU budget in greater detail than before because, irrespective of the potential savings to be achieved in the EU budget, a lot of the additional resources required can be discussed in the context of a genuine debate on synergy and potential savings between the EU budget and the national budgets.
We must tell the Council clearly that if it refuses to take the path indicated by us today, it needs to indicate which political priorities are to be struck off the agenda and no longer financed.
This is required if we are to be honest with our citizens.
I hope that the Commission will respond positively to these suggestions from Parliament in its legislative proposals and I expect that the future presidencies will find a way to communicate openly and transparently with Parliament, so that we can complete the assent procedures in the appropriate timeframe.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
