Madam President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, this report presents the position of the European Parliament very clearly.
I would like thank the shadow rapporteurs who have contributed to the report and the rapporteurs for the opinion of the relevant committees.
Together, we have succeeded in conveying a clear message, Mr Tajani, which is that we want to move industrial policy closer to the centre of the political arena, for good reason.
Industrial policy will help us, firstly, to create good quality, future-proof jobs in Europe and, secondly, to secure investment in Europe.
Our competitors all over the world are making good use of industrial policy, for example, in the United States, China, Brazil and India.
Thirdly, we are faced with challenges relating to sustainability, both in terms of the climate and the economic and social foundations of our society.
Against this background, it is important for us to put industrial policy at the centre of the political arena.
On the one hand, this means that we expect industrial policy to be integrated in such a way, Mr Tajani, that it becomes the focal point of legislative initiatives within the European Union.
We do not want to see environmental, trade and competition policies being drawn up first and only subsequently being coordinated with the interests of European industry.
On the contrary, we must define the other areas of policy on the basis of the strategic interests of a sustainable industrial policy.
Secondly, Mr Tajani, we need better coordination between the industrial policies in the different Member States.
Therefore, I would like to ask you, and we have included this in the report, to make use of Article 173(2) of the Treaty of Lisbon, in order to coordinate industrial policy in the Member States more effectively, so that we really are all moving in the same direction.
We must, of course, focus on a number of specific areas.
On the horizontal level, we need to look, in particular, at innovation policy throughout the entire value-added chain.
We must succeed in supporting the entire economic chain, from fundamental research through to the market launch of products, and in bringing the best solutions for our society onto the market.
We also need to pay more attention to resources.
Simply saying that this is important is not enough.
We need to introduce practical legislation which will significantly increase resource productivity.
In industry, labour is responsible for 20% of costs and resources for 40%.
That is a starting point for action on raw materials.
The mobile phones that we all use contain rare earths and metals, which are seldom recycled.
The recycling rate for mobile phones is only 1.5%.
That is a starting point for creating jobs and increasing the competitiveness of European industry.
I would like to make one last point in this context.
Innovation and resource productivity will not happen by themselves.
They depend on the employees who are involved.
For this reason, a sensible industrial policy must also take into consideration the skills and the involvement of employees.
If we can bring this about, then I am confident that we will have future-proof jobs in European industry.
