Mr President, I very much hope that it will be possible to rescue the 200 people who are in distress, because this is a very important matter.
Thank you for informing us about this.
Mr Barnier, Mrs Győri, ladies and gentlemen, Article 3 of the Treaty of Lisbon, which enshrines the social market economy, represents a new approach and a new political task for the future.
Of course, we now have to complete this task and we have been waiting to do so for the last two years.
I am pleased that the European Commission has made the first move in this direction.
I am also very pleased that we in the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament have succeeded, after a hard struggle, in ensuring that the social clause is included in the European Parliament's position when we vote on this issue today.
This is a very important question, because it forms the basis for social cohesion and will enable us to ensure that the internal market is regarded by people in the European Union as a social component.
This is essential if we want the citizens of Europe to regain their trust in the political system in the European Union.
In particular, the Commission must finally acknowledge the decisive significance of social rights in the internal market and put the focus on the social impact of European legislation.
This is why it is important for Parliament to remind the Commission once again about the social clause which is enshrined in the Treaty of Lisbon.
I would like to thank Mr Barnier for assuring us that he will take this into consideration and will follow this route.
He can be sure of the full support of the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament.
Mr Barnier, the social clause also means, of course, that the Posting of Workers Directive must be revised accordingly.
It means that the right to work and to strike must be respected in the Member States, together with the issues which really concern people, and that these rights must be incorporated into the internal market policy of the European Union without any ifs and buts and without restrictions.
That is what concerns us as Social Democrats.
If the internal market is developed on this basis, we will give you our support and our policy will be moving in the right direction.
Of course, other questions are also important in this context.
The recognition of professional qualifications, the European qualifications passport and the full transferability of pensions within the European Union are all issues which interest the citizens of Europe and which will ensure that the internal market is a market for the people.
This is exactly what we Social Democrats are always saying.
The economy is there for the people and not vice versa.
If we follow this path, then we will be on the right track.
