Mr President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to offer my sincere thanks to the High Representative for the account she has given us and for her efforts over recent weeks, which could have put Europe on the map just a little bit if we continue to approach this issue with the necessary courage and take the necessary steps.
Despite the differences, the events in North Africa are highly comparable with those of 1989.
The people are calling for freedom and better living conditions.
Alongside humanitarian aid, which we have to provide now, we must offer the people of North Africa our assistance, if they want it, in developing democracy there.
Democracy, however, will only survive if these people are helped to achieve better living conditions at the same time.
We have heard talk, in this connection, of a Marshall Plan and of a free trade zone - all of which is necessary, as it could be positive for us in a tremendously dramatic and historic sense for democracy, freedom and better living conditions to establish themselves in these countries.
We therefore must not treat this as run-of-the-mill and we must act quickly.
In order to prevent the murderer Gaddafi from reasserting himself, we need to hearten people and show them that we are on their side.
It is therefore important that relations be established with the Interim Council.
We must act as contacts in order to make it clear, in this way, that we are setting other elements in motion.
We must help bring about the total isolation of Gaddafi so that he is separated from his own people and so that no future is possible with Gaddafi, so that the people break away from him.
This must also include us preventing Gaddafi from bombing his own people.
This means that a no-fly zone - or whatever else - is necessary in order to provide protection and encouragement in order to ensure that those who are fighting for their freedom are not demoralised.
Furthermore, since we can do this together with the Arab League, in recognition of the United Nations charter, there would not need to be a UN resolution if Russia were involved.
We must, then, help the people there so that they are able to fight their way to freedom in this conflict and so that a sustained civil war with this murderer does not arise.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
