Madam President, Mr Oettinger, firstly, I would like to thank you very much, Mr Oettinger.
In contrast to those people whose fine words just cause uncertainty, you have made sure that something actually happens.
That is what makes a difference in politics.
It is really starting to get on my nerves, to be quite blunt about it, that some Members of Parliament are constantly demanding more and more, but are not prepared to make a contribution themselves.
Mrs Harms, we have failed in Parliament.
We did not even manage to adopt a resolution on the subject of safety because you wanted 150% and were not satisfied with what was actually possible as a result of the various responsibilities involved.
We have not done our job and neither have you.
However, the Commissioner has done his job.
Six months ago, we would not have expected to have the opportunity to carry out a stress test of this kind.
We would never have believed that it would be possible to enter into discussions with states outside Europe on the subject of safety.
It is easy to go around shouting about how dreadful everything is and focusing solely on the question of the exit from nuclear power, in other words, all or nothing.
It is more difficult but more beneficial for the people of Europe to make progress in this area.
What Mr Oettinger has achieved over the last few months is an example to us all.
I am not trying to say that everything is exactly how we wanted it.
We will only be able to tell at the end if this is what we wanted.
Mrs Harms and Mr Turmes, it is simply not acceptable to spend your time permanently complaining and heckling and then, when you are called on to do something, to vote against better safety levels for nuclear power plants.
The resolution was here on the table and you voted against it.
You weakened the position of Parliament and of the Commission, when we wanted to improve the safety of European nuclear power stations.
That is a fact.
I have had enough of this constant hypocrisy.
It is dishonest and it does not allow us to make progress.
Of course the situation is complicated, but everyone is familiar with the legal position.
It is naïve to believe that we can do what we want.
There is a very specific legal position which we have to follow.
The things that have been achieved here within that framework are very interesting and important.
You may think that the endless heckling is funny, but it does not get us anywhere.
(Applause)
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
