on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the most recent reports from the southern Mediterranean and Egypt state that shots are being fired in Cairo.
The situation is coming to a head.
As a result of this news, I can only appeal to the European Heads of State or Government not to wait until lunch time on Friday of this week to agree on what the right message for Egypt should be.
It is long overdue for us to make it clear to Mr Mubarak that he has to stand down swiftly, this being necessary in order to prevent this unrest in Egypt from escalating further and to ensure that developments follow a similar path to those previously seen in Tunisia.
It would be really disgraceful if we were to simply wait to see what happens in Egypt.
(Applause)
This summit is actually supposed to be an energy summit.
However, when I see the preparations that are being made for it, I am actually not surprised that other topics are now setting the agenda.
On the basis of the slogan 'we need security of energy supply', a lot of contact - by you in particular, Mr Barroso - is being made with countries like Azerbaijan and Turkmenistan.
Mr Oettinger recently spoke in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy about how we are going to develop our energy relations with Iraq, Georgia and Turkmenistan.
In view of the events in the southern Mediterranean, where we are also seeing the consequences of our policies relating to our own interests and our external energy policy, I consider this to be rather hazardous.
I know we need diversification because we also face a problematic and very difficult situation to the east with Russia and the transit countries of Belarus and Ukraine.
However, diversification must not involve us now entering into relations with despots and countries in crisis.
Energy efficiency and renewable energies are the solution for a better and more secure energy supply, and I have to say, Mr Barroso, you have tolerated a great deal in this regard.
Mr Oettinger has neglected the area that was managed well by Mr Piebalgs, or - and this is the negative way of looking at it - he has once again chosen not to promote future-proof technologies such as renewable energies and energy efficiency and has reverted to the old energy mix.
Suddenly we find that feed-in tariffs for nuclear power stations, for atomic energy, are to be discussed at the summit - good grief, where do we actually stand in this modernisation and innovation debate?
I have simply lost patience with this now.
(Applause)
Perhaps we have actually been too patient where economic governance is concerned.
Germany now seems to be following the Schäuble course.
However, what we currently have on the table still does not represent the state of the art.
We need more than a minor amendment to the stability instrument.
We urgently need to take a decision to amend the credit conditions for Greece and Ireland or we will end up destroying these countries.
We need more money in the crisis instrument, otherwise we can forget any ideas of providing assistance to Spain and Portugal in the near future.
What we need at long last - just so that we understand each other very clearly on this point - is a proposal for how we intend to deal with the restructuring of debt.
We cannot avoid it, everyone knows that, and we, as Parliament, also want to discuss it further here.
