Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank the Commission - something I do not often do - for very consistently placing the focus on safety, even in the face of protests from some airlines, which tried to make light of the problem because such problems have a financial impact.
However, safety must remain the guiding principle for the future, too.
A few improvements that we can achieve at European level are necessary, however.
For example, how about improving our common measuring systems?
Do we now have strategies in place for how and with what division of labour such pollution incidents can be measured so that we can issue halfway reliable statements more quickly?
I know that this is extremely difficult to do, particularly on account of meteorological conditions, but I would like to know whether any progress has been made here with regard to coordination, so that we are at least taking measurements and evaluating them according to the same criteria.
Overall, this crisis caused by the volcanic ash has shown how vulnerable our highly equipped air transport system now is - that is something that is obvious to all of us already at our airports.
Under normal operating conditions, two or three delays already have a whole series of consequences, making use of the service under normal operating conditions more and more difficult, let alone if there is the additional problem of external weather events or something like a volcanic ash crisis; the situation then becomes one of utter chaos.
We have no error-tolerant system, and in this area, we also need to make improvements, as a system is only as good as its ability to respond in an error-tolerant manner in relevant cases.
It has also become apparent that we are facing a serious shortcoming, namely, the general lack of cooperation between rail, road and air transport.
Precisely because we have insufficient cooperation, it was hardly possible to take appropriate compensatory measures on the ground.
With regard to the Single Sky, the necessity of which has become apparent here - as coordinated measures would, in any case, have been better - I would say that, as long as each Member State is convinced that it is the only one that is truly capable of controlling its own airspace efficiently and that all of the others are absolutely incapable of doing so - and I am talking here about our airspace in Central Europe - we will not make any progress in this regard.
This egotism damages European cooperation and, ultimately, also the European idea.
We need to be clear about that.
