on behalf of the S&D Group. - Madam President, cohesion policy is a successful European policy which everyone makes use of, including regions which are not as well developed and those which already have a strong economy.
A variety of studies have demonstrated this.
However, most importantly, the citizens of Europe can experience its benefits at first hand.
This is why we need cohesion policy in future in all the regions of the European Union.
Nevertheless, we are under an obligation to make our good policies even better.
This is what the European Parliament is aiming to achieve with Mr Pieper's report.
Modern cohesion policy means facing the new challenges, creating up-to-date infrastructure, combating climate change, supporting energy security and efficiency, promoting research and development, providing support for small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and creating jobs.
Of course, we also need to ensure that the funding is used efficiently.
Therefore, we are making it clear that cohesion policy must be more transparent and results-oriented and must involve less red tape.
The coordination between the various funds and programmes must also be improved, as Mr Stavrakakis said earlier.
One very important point is that the partnership principle must be taken to a new and better level.
We must involve everyone, including the regions, local areas, both sides of industry and major non-governmental organisations.
The new intermediate category remains controversial.
We are of the opinion that the intermediate category will help regions which need more support than the classic Objective 2 regions.
They will not be funded at the expense of other regions.
On the contrary, the result will not be a patchwork of subsidies.
Instead the many phasing-in and phasing-out procedures will be standardised and I believe that this is something which we really need in the European Union.
Anyone who thinks that we are introducing a permanent subsidy category is underestimating the European Parliament.
Over the past few years we have demonstrated often enough that we are able to bring in community initiatives when they are needed.
However, we have also worked jointly to remove them again once the objective has been achieved.
We are competent enough to be able to judge at the end of a subsidy period whether the results are good and how we should redesign the programme.
Therefore, I am calling on my fellow Members to support this new intermediate category when it comes to the vote.
