Mr President, whoever arranged for these debates to be combined has hardly done Parliament a service - still less the subjects concerned.
All over Europe, the costs of medicines and health insurance are rising, and everybody is trying to find ways of bringing them down.
Medical progress is making medicines more and more expensive.
The case we are dealing with here is different.
There are 30 million asthmatics in Europe and we have a small manufacturer that has developed a device that makes inhalation - which can be a life-saver for asthmatics and is extremely important in their treatment - better, faster, more efficient and, above all, cheaper.
This manufacturer has been denied access to the market for 14 years.
The manufacturer turned to the Commission back in 1996 and the Committee on Petitions has been dealing with the matter since 2006.
Commissioner Dalli, it is the Commission's job to help enforce the law and to be on the citizens' side.
In this case, that is not being done; instead, the Commission is refusing to make a clear decision - a decision that would help the petitioner.
I would like to address you quite personally, Commissioner Dalli, for you will recall that we invited you along to meet with the Committee on Petitions and discuss the matter.
You told us that you did not have time for that, but that you could find time for a personal conversation.
We came to you and spoke to you personally.
You personally promised me that you would take care of the matter and find a solution very quickly.
To date, I have heard nothing.
I wrote you another letter, but I have received no reply.
You have also tried to prevent the next debate.
That is not the way the Commission should act.
I would like to state very clearly that the European Parliament expects the Commission to be on the side of the law and of the citizen - and we will be voting together on this resolution tomorrow.
We expect you to guarantee that such small manufacturers are protected from those who wish to deny them access to the market.
There is a lot of money at stake here, but more particularly, it is also about people's health.
We are aware of the problems.
We cannot understand your actions, Commissioner Dalli.
We know all your arguments.
I have looked through mountains of files, but I have yet to find a clear argument to substantiate your position.
We are talking about a medical product.
A full 30 000 are in use - people have inhaled millions of times, with excellent results.
We have letters from insurance companies asking us to allow access to the market so that costs can be saved here.
I expect the Commission to finally do its job and reach a positive decision on this matter.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
