Mr President, honourable Members, the Commission and Baroness Ashton, the High Representative, are deeply concerned about the situation in Madagascar and we have promised to give our continued support to the people of this beautiful country.
We attach great importance to overcoming the ongoing political crisis and the economic and social effects on the population of Madagascar which are increasing the burden placed on the people on a daily basis.
In the same way as you, the Members of Parliament, we are monitoring developments there very closely and using every diplomatic means at our disposal to bring an end to the crisis.
The last two years have involved many retrograde steps and blocks to progress in the country.
Now I believe that we have reached a turning point.
Two days ago, on 7 June, talks began in Gaborone between the Southern African Development Community (SADC) and various players in the country, in order to find a way out of the crisis, which is based on neutrality and consensus, includes all the relevant groups, and can be supported both by the international community and by the broad majority of the citizens of Madagascar.
We are hoping for, counting on and working to ensure the success of the talks, so that the African Union and the international community, including the EU, can help and support Madagascar to return to the rule of constitutional law.
We are opposing all attempts to bring about a transition to a one-sided, 'de facto' government.
For this reason, the European Council decided last week to extend the measures imposed under the terms of Article 96 of the Cotonou Agreement by another six months.
This does not affect humanitarian aid or measures to combat poverty, provided that they are compatible with the terms of this article.
We are still prepared to provide political and financial support for this transition process, provided it is consensual.
It must be based on the road map agreed by the local players and must be endorsed by the SADC, the African Union and the international community.
Against this background, I am hoping for positive developments after two tough and difficult years.
Thank you very much.
