Mr President, the results of the summit meeting were an important interim step, however the true test is yet to come.
If these results are handled like everything else, including the Stability and Growth Pact, and if the Member States do not adhere to them, then they are not worth the paper they are printed on.
That is why I cannot share the optimism of the two Presidents that the crisis is over.
I believe we are only now facing into the real test.
It is more than two and a half years since the collapse of Lehmann Brothers and where are we now?
It has taken us two and a half years to reach this point.
The responsible Commissioner rejected the proposals for a financial market transaction tax the last time they were brought forward.
I want to see results.
When I think back to the last parliamentary term, I recall that this House passed 12 resolutions on measures in relation to the financial markets and that the responsible Commissioner for the Internal Market - who thankfully is no longer in office - rejected them all.
That is the reality.
The Commission did not provide leadership in resolving the problem.
However, we found that national self-interest needs to be overcome at Council level too and that Parliament needed to fortify the Commission in its role in amending the Constitution.
There is absolutely no reason to rest on one's laurels.
I must concur with Mr Verhofstadt.
Budgetary consolidation is too lax, governance too non-committal, the euro pact too weak and national interest still too strong.
If we do not have the courage to demand greater commitment to Europe from national governments, then we will never achieve a meaningful, lasting solution.
Mr Barroso, I was critical when the Greek Members of my group voted against the programme for Greece.
I certainly do not agree with Mr Schulz.
If a socialist head of government is voted out of office, this is prima facie a good thing.
However, in the Portuguese case your party also voted against the programme.
Things like this should not be allowed to happen in Europe.
I would ask everyone to play their part in ensuring that this partisan national attitude has no future as we work to solve this problem.
