Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a year ago, the plenary agreed and mandated a special committee to draft the position of the European Parliament in relation to the next financial perspective.
Now, following exactly eleven months of work, the Policy Changes Committee is presenting the fruits of its labours.
This was a task that required discipline and concentration and that could only be achieved by adopting an approach characterised by openness, solidarity and mutual trust.
For that, let me express my sincerest gratitude to those Members involved in the creative process.
The report we have produced, drawn up under the leadership of Mr Garriga Polledo, is a genuinely good result.
It is something of which we can be proud.
However, as we all know, good results require not just hard-working Members, but also excellent staff.
We certainly had this, not just in the shape of our personal assistants and our group staff, but also, above all, in an excellent secretariat.
This super team, led by Monika Strasser, was not just competent and professional, but was also more than usually interested in its work.
It was patient and creative, extremely well organised, and, at the same time, spontaneous and flexible.
Best of all, it was always cheerful and open.
They obviously enjoyed all the hard work.
I would like to thank this nine-strong team from the bottom of my heart.
Thank you very much indeed.
(Applause)
From the outset, Mr Garriga Polledo and I wanted to deliver a report that could be supported by three quarters of Parliament.
We actually received a majority of more than four fifths in the vote in committee.
We were very pleased with this.
Our call for a seven-year financial perspective which is expressed in a structure that reflects the objectives of the Europe 2020 strategy, while, at the same time, respecting all the policies for the European Union and avoiding increasing the European budget to unrealistic levels, must be seen to be reasonable.
It is realistic and achievable.
Our report contains 174 paragraphs, all of them arguments for more Europe.
We genuinely need more Europe.
Please read the report.
It offers the best basis for convincing our citizens in local debate and for entering into serious negotiations with the Council, which is unfortunately notable by its absence today.
Thank you for your excellent work.
