Mr President, Mr Nuttall is complaining about something that the United Kingdom, like many other States, has been doing since 2006.
This process that we will conclude tomorrow at parliamentary level - Mr Leinen has done an excellent job in this regard - will enshrine in law something that has already been practised for a long time.
Why do we need these data?
It has nothing to do with Sovietisation.
Data are only as good as their comparability, and this comparability is the key element.
That is why we have this European economic accounting and why we have used this system globally since the 1930s - including in the United Kingdom.
It is such a good system because it is based on uniform standards and therefore, we can compare the prosperity of individual states and their economic and social success.
The US dollar is usually used as the currency for comparison.
Here we have a major opportunity to elevate the euro to the status of a comparison currency.
I believe that is the second element.
However, we also know that there are many gaps in these economic accounts.
Consider Fukushima.
Fukushima will now have a positive effect on the Japanese gross domestic product because a lot of investments are being made in this regard.
They are flow accounts rather than stock accounts.
We need to compensate for these things, and therefore the Commission subsequently put forward its 'GDP and beyond' proposal.
These sustainability accounts that we will be adopting today and tomorrow will be the first step.
Why is that?
It is because investing in energy efficiency and consuming less energy, for example, will have a negative effect on the gross domestic product.
Even someone like Mr Nuttall cannot disagree with that.
This is not so much about big policies; it is simply about us wanting to make our policies testable: what taxes are levied in this area, how much material are we using.
Thus, we want to improve the legislative process, and if you were not in the Union, you would have to use the same system, otherwise your data would be worthless.
Therefore, I would say that this is a positive first step.
I would like to thank the Commission and the rapporteur.
