Mr President, Mrs Malmström, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs most sincerely.
We had very many debates.
In the end, we reached some very good compromises, even though we all know that it is not always quite so easy, of course.
On behalf of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, however, I would like to say that, in any case, we still have the goal of establishing a common, EU-wide asylum system by 2012.
That also means that we must now make some real progress and also send a clear signal to the Council that we have not lost sight of this goal and that we are, of course, still prepared to enter into negotiations.
That goes without saying.
However, I also believe that we need to make it clear that, above all, we want a common asylum system.
It is not acceptable, as has already been said, for it to be almost like a lottery depending on where an asylum seeker makes his application.
It is not acceptable - and in this regard I am pleased that, at the last minute, we achieved success here - for every individual Member State to have its own national list of what constitutes a safe third country.
Either a country is safe or it is not - and then it still must be examined in each individual case whether it can, in fact, be a safe third country for the particular person who has made an application or whether, in this individual situation, it is perhaps not possible to simply say that is the case as such.
I am also convinced that, ultimately, the Member States will benefit from this, but so will the asylum seekers, who will have the chance, in future, to receive a ruling directly at the first instance in a fair and nevertheless rapid application procedure if this is implemented in the way that we envisage it.
I believe this also to be a right; asylum is a right, not a favour.
We must take an absolutely clear position on this and then also have a clear procedure.
Above all, I welcome the fact that we have managed to further extend the rights of minors.
I am in favour of that and so is the ALDE Group, and I will be pleased if we get a good result in this regard tomorrow.
