Madam President, my group has visited several Roma communities in Europe and seen the horrendous conditions there.
It is hard to imagine the way in which these people live in some European capitals.
This is a vicious circle from which it is very difficult for them to escape.
I am grateful to both Commissioners for mentioning the issue of poverty.
I believe that the struggle on behalf of the Roma is, above all, a struggle against poverty and not only amongst the Roma.
We must make sure that we do not create a new divide, where the poor people outside the Roma communities are critical of the fact that the Roma are suddenly receiving large amounts of money or a great deal of attention.
We need to make sure that this is a joint struggle which, of course, also aims to combat all forms of discrimination.
The efforts made on a local level are also important.
Very often, it is the case that a lot is done by communities or regions, but unfortunately, not always with the support of the national government.
We need to find a way to introduce European funding at a local level.
Therefore, we have drawn up an alternative resolution, which I will be speaking about shortly.
This resolution has been introduced mainly at the suggestion of Mr Enciu, who will also be explaining his position on this subject, in order to highlight the problem.
I hope that the Commission can come up with a good Roma strategy.
As both Commissioners have rightly said, this is all about a process for monitoring the situation and providing support.
In their words, it is work in progress.
We need to find out what really happens to the funding, because for too long, we have sat by and watched while very little has been done.
I do not want to say that nothing has happened, but it has certainly been far too little and the funds have not been put to the best possible use.
We wish the Hungarian Presidency every success.
We will give you our full support on this issue, so that we can produce a new strategy and so that you can say that this is one of the successful achievements of your Presidency.
You have our support.
Finally, I would like to thank Mrs J치r칩ka for her excellent report.
Because we want to support her report, we will be withdrawing our alternative resolution.
We simply wanted to highlight the problem relating to local authorities and communities.
However, we also want to support Mrs J치r칩ka's report as a clear statement from the European Parliament.
(Applause)
