Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Eurovignette and the results of the negotiations represent an example of how the Council is currently attempting to place limitations on and water down all Parliament's proposals, particularly in the field of transport policy.
The transport policy of the Member States' transport ministers consists of demanding a sustainable and forward-looking transport policy for the European Union every Sunday while doing everything under the sun during the week to actively prevent such a policy from being realised.
One thing is clear, and that is that noise and exhaust gases are to the detriment of both people and nature.
They give rise to costs, and those costs are currently borne by the taxpayers, rather than those responsible for the costs.
Parliament's proposal, which was already a very tame one and a difficult compromise between the countries at the centre of Europe and those on the peripheries, was still watered down even further.
Thus, for example, the allocation of external costs became voluntary, rather than compulsory.
Costs are not apportioned for all the deleterious consequences caused, only for a small number of factors.
In the end, what remains of the allocation of costs amounts to little more than a couple of hot dogs and a beer for a whole leg of the journey.
I find that very little.
The arrangements apply only in a qualified way to goods vehicles weighing over 3.5 tonnes.
Germany got its way with the 12-tonne proposal and in mountain areas, the only goods vehicles now subject to taxation are those that you do not even find there because they cannot get up the large inclines.
In the end, Italy wanted to derail the whole thing on the basis of a bureaucratic detail.
When it comes down to it, that is a prime example of how transport policy, sadly, is still not taken seriously enough.
We in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance will still vote in favour, as we want to take our place in a majority that at least rescues the principle of the charging of external costs for a future where more reasonable people occupy the role of transport minister in the Member States.
