Madam President, Baroness Ashton, current events in Syria are once again making us aware of the dilemma that the European Union finds itself in with regard to the Middle East and what is happening in North Africa.
For many years, we have given our support to despotic regimes and dictatorships in the Arab world.
Now, when President Assad begins taking brutal measures against his own people, we are, of course, dutifully condemning his actions and imposing half-hearted sanctions.
This is not what is meant by credibility, in my opinion.
For the Arab world, democracy and human rights have obviously never been much more than empty words.
It is clear that attempts are being made to conceal the fact that Brussels or, in other words, the European Union, has primarily been acting in the geopolitical interests of the Americans in this region.
In particular, the helplessness of the European Union in the face of all the developments in the area of the southern Mediterranean gives cause for concern.
We welcomed the coming of democracy when the revolts and uprisings began.
What is happening now in Tunisia?
At best, the situation can be described as chaotic, with the transitional government about to be overthrown again.
Egypt has what seems to be a permanent or temporary military dictatorship which is persecuting the Coptic Christians.
In Libya, there is a civil war in which the divided Europeans are intervening half-heartedly with half of their resources.
However, the Americans may find that Syria is a hard nut to crack.
President Assad does not even need to worry that the army will turn against him under external pressure.
There is also no protective power which could bring him down.
Nevertheless, regime change in Damascus would definitely have far-reaching consequences for the entire region.
The first Syrian refugees who are arriving in Turkey may be the vanguard of a major influx of people fleeing the conflict.
As a result of the current situation in Syria and Libya, we in Europe and in Brussels urgently need to develop an autonomous policy which is not dependent on or influenced by Washington.
Unlike the USA, Europe is directly affected by events in the region because of its geographical proximity.
However, we must not allow ourselves to be dragged further into the Libyan civil war or we risk becoming a target for terrorism and extremism.
