Mr Martin, I did read your question very carefully.
That is why I also gave you a very specific answer based on the rules that we have in the field of regional policy.
The essence of these rules consists of there being agreements in the Member States, and these cannot be unilaterally altered by either the Commission or the regions.
Personally, I would want the resources already in place to be used for this, and I would be pleased if that were the case.
I find myself going from conference to conference, from Member State to Member State, like a living Tibetan prayer wheel, pleading the case for these resources - which are already in place - to be used.
As the expansion of renewable energies does indeed represent one of the focal points of the Europe 2020 strategy, I assume that, in the forthcoming period, there will definitively be a higher budget for this area, including from the regional policy heading.
Moreover, there will certainly be investments in this connection, in collaboration with Mr Oettinger, in the field of infrastructure when it comes to trans-European networks in the field of energy provision.
If, today, regions are seeking to re-dedicate resources in addition to the resources already available, we are certainly very open, in this area, to the idea of opening up this opportunity or, in any case, to holding serious talks in this regard.
Once again, however, we in the Commission cannot unilaterally alter these agreements.
Subject: Fulfilment of the objectives of structural funds payments
At the end of June 2011, the Commission will present its proposal for the next 7-year budgetary framework (2014-2020).
In the case of EU regional policy, there have been substantial problems with absorption capacity under the individual programmes.
Several programmes have also failed to achieve their objectives.
How does the Commission intend to include the absorption capacity of each Member State as a criterion for the allocation of structural fund appropriations in the coming budgetary period?
Does the Commission agree that payments should be reviewed if a region has been receiving structural funding for years without this resulting in it meeting the targets set?
Will the Commission consider a 'sunset mechanism' that sets a closing date on the allocation of structural fund appropriations to individual recipient regions?
Does the Commission agree that such a mechanism would help create a more results-oriented cohesion policy?
The Court of Auditors Annual Report for 2009 found the highest error rate to be in payments under the EU's cohesion policy.
This was the same finding as in previous years.
How does the Commission intend to remedy this situation?
