Thank you very much for your interest and your comments.
The subject of microfinance is, in fact, one covered by a number of directorates general, with Mr Andor taking a certain lead as regards substance.
However, it is also something that we are concerned with within the area of regional policy.
Where interest rates are concerned, there are some Member States that have set a cap - as a condition, so to speak - which is at around 8 to 9.5 per cent.
What must also be taken into account here, however, is that naturally - and this has always been a matter for discussion, including during the preparations for all this - the overheads are relatively high in relation to the actual loans, and therefore, costs are incurred which need to be covered.
A sensible middle way has to be found, and I think we have succeeded in this.
Moving on to the second question, I can tell you that the Jasmine instrument - which is intended to assist with the appropriate preparations for microfinance and to pave the way for intermediaries to be set up and trained - is currently being used to make ready 15 institutions in 15 different countries, 11 of them in Central and Eastern Europe and four in Western Europe.
I cannot tell you all the countries off the top of my head, but essentially, they are mostly the new accession countries, and we expect that in the coming years, a further 20 intermediaries will be prepared accordingly by the Jasmine programme.
Regarding the last question, I must ask you to bear with me since I cannot give an off-the-cuff answer.
We will forward an answer in writing, stating in detail the reasons for restricting access.
I would certainly assume, however, that there are often communication problems here and that there are also often obstacles because many of the potential borrowers are people who can no longer obtain loans from a 'conventional' bank and there is therefore often also a certain amount of anxiety or reticence when it comes to approaching such facilities.
If this is the case and it becomes ingrained and established, however, then it will be necessary to carry out information activities in this area as appropriate.
Subject: Additional support measures for SMEs under tourism policy
Tourism, like any other sector of the economy, is increasingly feeling the effects of world competition.
In order for the European Union to remain competitive in this sector, the EU has set itself the objective in the Lisbon Treaty of promoting the competitiveness of tourism and creating an environment favourable to business development.
For this purpose, the following objectives have been adopted: promoting innovation in tourism, improving the overall quality of tourism services and perfecting the professional skills of personnel.
However, businesses in the tourism sector - many of which are SMEs - are not always able to attain these objectives through their own unaided efforts.
This is due to several factors, such as limited financial resources, the lack of qualified workers and inability to respond quickly to change: hence the need for additional funding.
Does not the Commission consider that it would be desirable to devise a coherent strategy and a detailed action plan comprising specific support measures for SMEs and financing arrangements which could help to overcome the difficulties encountered by the sector?
