Mr President, I would like to begin by commending you for permitting such dialogue.
It is a little unfortunate that the Earl of Dartmouth did not understand that you had also allowed him this opportunity to reply.
I believe it is a very positive thing when someone like Mr Lamberts comes forward with such concrete proposals and when we have a chance to engage in lively debate, so that people get to respond in a more direct way, which is exactly what we want in this House.
Perhaps you will allow him the opportunity for a brief reply later on.
I would like to continue where Mr Lamberts left off.
There is no denying that we need transparency in the banking system.
The public is still quite unaware that these subsidies as a result of the financial crisis have actually done something quite unimaginable under EU standards.
They make it clear that competition per se cannot always manage without subsidies when there are higher objectives at stake.
However, what makes this entire business such a bitter pill to swallow is the fact that those banks that have received support are once again profiteering and, in some cases, actually going against common European interests.
That is enough about the financial market.
The second point I would like to discuss is one you have all heard from me before - the question of pharmaceuticals.
It find it very regrettable that we have still not made the progress that has been possible and necessary for decades.
It would indeed be a great step forward for Europe if citizens in my country, Austria, as well as in Germany and in other countries, only had to pay the same amount for pharmaceuticals as their fellow citizens in other EU Member States.
This is the work of cartels and big business.
I believe that the Commission has the opportunity and the duty finally to take action here.
The second aspect of this issue is pharmaceutical authorisation.
Unnecessary trials are still taking place, both on animals and on human beings.
A lot of work is duplicated unnecessarily.
In the context of the European internal market, this is something that should have been resolved last century.
I would once again call on you to take intensive action here.
