author. - Madam President, in the debate on the Hungarian constitution, we heard more than once the criticism that it was a political debate.
I am completely taken aback by that, because having political debates is one of the things that Parliament is expressly there to do; and I therefore want to start this topic by setting out the political framework too.
Crime, and organised crime in particular, has never been held back by borders or border controls.
It therefore makes no sense to rebuild borders in Europe and to restrict the way our populations are growing together.
On the contrary: what we need is the consistent further development of cooperation between our Member States and cross-border cooperation by the police and justice authorities.
In this area, the European Arrest Warrant has repeatedly proven itself to be an important and successful instrument.
At the same time, however, this instrument will fall into disrepute if European Arrest Warrants are used for, say, stolen bicycles, or merely in order to carry out questioning.
I regret to say that we have also found that it is being used when perhaps it has been decided not to execute an arrest warrant because there is evidence to show that it was unjustly issued and this is then not respected by the issuing Member State - resulting in the unfortunate situation in which the citizens concerned are repeatedly arrested whenever they cross a border.
That does nothing to help build confidence in European legal systems.
Why is this happening?
Does the text of the directive leave too much leeway?
Is it a matter of incorrect implementation in the Member States or inadequate information?
We need to clarify these points, the Member States need to make improvements where necessary, and the Commission must take action to prevent such misuse.
That is the only way to prevent a successful instrument being permanently damaged and confidence in these measures being lost.
Moreover, all these experiences show how important it is that we finally make some progress on the road map for procedural rights.
In the interests of legal certainty for everyone involved, we need to have the same rights across Europe for those accused of offences and there must be mandatory information on these rights.
I call on the Commission to exert pressure to counter possible opposition on all these points; I am sure it can count on the support of Parliament in this.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
