Mr President, Commissioner, I would like to offer my very sincere thanks to you for coming here today.
You listed eleven priorities today and one of your first comments was that 'the Commission is very enthusiastic'.
The strategy for the Danube region is genuinely a bottom-up process.
Wherever we look in the Member States, but particularly in the communities along the Danube, this strategy is universally agreed to be essential.
If we listen to today's discussions, it is quite clear where the greatest fears lie.
Cooperation in the cultural sphere is not a major problem - this is something that will work.
The Danube region already has a long history of cultural cooperation.
The fears relate to sustainability and the threat to the Danube itself.
We have heard today that we need to develop the Danube as a transport route because we - I am also speaking in my capacity as a member of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - genuinely see this as an alternative way if not to cut CO2 emissions, which is perhaps too ambitious a goal, then at least to avoid increasing them.
However, we do recognise the major threat to the Danube as a whole.
If we regard the Danube and its tributaries as one large ecosystem, then I can see that this strategy for the Danube region represents a major opportunity, although, on the other hand, it requires a great deal of foresight in the way the strategy is drawn up.
There are calls for more money and indeed monetary support will be required.
Yet, it will be up to you and the Commission, as well as Parliament, of course, to ensure that all the resources deployed here really do play a role in ensuring that the ecosystem comprising the Danube, its tributaries, forests, dry meadows and wet meadows, is preserved for the future.
This is a fundamental requirement if Europe is to develop.
This strategy for the Danube region really does offer an opportunity to invest in green energy and to establish sustainability from the bottom up.
We now have an opportunity to harness the enthusiasm of the population, stakeholders and other responsible parties.
Together, we should make the most of this opportunity because we can provide an excellent example here.
