Mr President, Mr Füle, Mr Lajčák, ladies and gentlemen, the issue that we are discussing did not begin on 21 January.
Therefore, we need to ask ourselves and I am also asking you: Why did the Commission and the other international bodies not put out the fire when the flames first appeared in mid 2009?
The 2009 elections were the best that have so far taken place in Albania and they were based on election legislation which, amazingly, was adopted following a consensus between the socialists and democrats.
Reaching a consensus is something entirely new in Albania.
I believe that this is important.
All the socialist election boards, the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR), the election observers and we ourselves believed that the elections were managed correctly.
The government which was subsequently formed was also something new for Albania.
Two parties which cannot stand each other sat down and worked together.
The democratic party, on the one hand, and the smaller social democratic party, on the other.
Two opposing groups have come together to help Albania to make progress.
It has joined NATO and it has a visa regime, but unfortunately, it has not yet been granted candidate status.
However, just at the moment when the government was formed, the opposition decided that the elections had not been properly conducted and called for the ballot boxes to be opened.
What sort of government opens ballot boxes?
Not the sort that we have in my country or in yours.
We have to go before the constitutional court or the election commission.
Protests like the ones which we have seen, the hunger strikes, and the refusal to cooperate in Parliament to pass important legislation, are all simply unacceptable.
It is important that we make this clear and that we face the facts.
It is not always possible to bring everything onto the same level.
I would like to find out what the most important and the most difficult issues are.
The accusations that have been made both recently and right from the beginning concerned the issue of opening the ballot boxes.
This is not possible, because the constitution does not allow it.
How can negotiations take place about this if it is not allowed?
Now the situation has escalated and four people have been killed.
It is good that you have attempted today to present a road map.
However, it may be exaggerating slightly to describe it in that way.
I would very much like Mr Lajčák and you, Mr Füle, to use this road map to draw up a route towards a better future for the people of the country.
