Mr President, Mr Tajani, ladies and gentlemen, I, too, would like to start by expressing my sincere thanks to all those who played an active part in bringing this regulation to second reading.
This regulation - as its title suggests - represents an improvement on the existing directive.
In the past, of course, building regulations were, to some extent, a core domain of national autonomy.
The fact that we have succeeded here in bringing the European internal market to the fore with a regulation is very positive.
Secondly, for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, the regulation contains a number of important relaxations which will facilitate their economic activity and their dealings in Europe's internal market.
Finally, consumers will, of course, also benefit from this regulation because it will considerably improve the safety and reliability of construction products.
I can also speak for our shadow rapporteur, Professor Mayer, who, on account of some constituency-related business, has, unfortunately, had to remain in his constituency today.
He asked me to mention that ultimately, at second reading, this regulation represents a compromise, a good compromise in his view, but there are nevertheless still a few issues that will need further work.
I am very grateful to Mr Tajani for pointing out that Parliament will also be involved in the follow-up work that remains to be done.
As shadow rapporteur, Professor Mayer feels it is not enough simply to regulate the behaviour of manufacturers of construction products and the sale of their products; this regulation must be supplemented by legislation that also establishes the principles and practical rules for the use and installation of construction products.
In this regard, Professor Mayer believes that the Commission should consider giving the European Committee for Standardisation (CEN) a mandate to produce a standardised European regulation.
He would also like to point out that the Commission is required to monitor whether the new Construction Products Regulation leads to adequate harmonisation in all areas and does not result in further safety problems and unfair competition.
However, after listening to what Commissioner Tajani has had to say, I am sure that we will achieve this together.
