Madam President, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, let me start by saying something about the comments on the House of European History.
As rapporteur for buildings I would firstly like to say that the figure of EUR 136 million is definitely incorrect.
Secondly, we are not talking about a prestige project here; after all, we are constantly complaining that people know nothing of European development since the Second World War, and we now want to make sure that two to three million people a year get to know these developments and find out more about them - so that perhaps they will be less Eurosceptic.
We should debate together the level of the operating costs and the synergies that may be able to be realised with the information centre.
A great many Members have taken part in the debate.
However, the debate has only just become public, with the result that some Members do not yet feel they have been adequately informed.
I will be happy to provide assistance with such discussions or requests for information.
I consider the project to be necessary and useful, because people need to find out more about European development - otherwise there will be more and more Eurosceptics.
Secondly, on the subject of development aid.
I would first like to thank Mr Staes warmly for the fact that we have genuinely achieved a joint report in many, many respects that I can categorically support.
I consider it essential that we set development aid priorities in the areas of infrastructure, health, education and particularly agriculture, and in particular I think that perhaps we should consider introducing an evaluation of projects after 10 years.
It is not our aim to start only short-term projects that in the final event have no lasting effect.
Moreover, we should make sure that we achieve better coordination of development aid with the Member States and also are able to implement once and for all the integration of the entire development aid budget into the EU budget, because it is incomprehensible why only part of our development aid is included in the EU budget.
