Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to express my sincere thanks for the many talks we were able to have with the rapporteur and also with the Commissioner and shadow rapporteurs.
This enabled good compromises to be reached in some areas.
As Mrs Malmström just mentioned, this includes the compromise on free legal assistance, in particular, for the special protection of minors.
Other achievements include the fact that we were able to agree on which applicants were particularly worthy of protection and, in our talks with one another, we were able to find a sensible compromise.
Over and above that, we also found a compromise with regard to the subject of safe third countries.
The aim is to fundamentally improve the quality of the administrative procedures so that there are fewer hearings in court in the second and third instance, in order to provide asylum seekers who are genuinely facing persecution with as rapid and as consistently effective assistance and protection as possible.
I am strongly in favour of there being appropriate minimum standards in all Member States.
Unfortunately, however, both the Commission's text and some of the individual amendments intended to amend the Commission's text to a certain extent do the opposite of what this good intention is striving to achieve.
Many opportunities have been created to delay procedures or even to massively abuse asylum law.
I will give you a few examples of this.
For example, an applicant can make three inadmissible applications and has the right to go through the full procedure three times.
Only then can an accelerated procedure be carried out.
A procedure cannot be accelerated if someone is clearly not recognised as a refugee under the Geneva Convention.
In this regard, I would simply mention the subject of Tunisia and also that of economic migrants.
Another example is the fact that an accelerated procedure will also not be possible if subsequent applications are made without any relevant new content.
What I consider to be even more serious, however, is the subject of disappearing.
If someone illegally disappears, his application can no longer be closed with a negative decision.
He has to countersign the letter.
Therefore, if an asylum seeker were expecting news of a negative decision, all he would need to do - if we were to adopt the motion put forward by the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance - would be to refuse to accept the letter or not be there to receive it.
The consequence of that would be that he could prolong the procedure indefinitely.
