Mr President, this debate was very interesting and illuminating.
There was one observation I have to make, though, and that was that there are still people who continue to have in their heads the old Bolkestein proposal, which actually provided for liberalisation and deregulation, despite the fact that that really is a thing of the past and that the Services Directive, as constituted at present, is about enabling people to use their qualifications to offer services across the European Union.
That is what this Services Directive is about, and it is important to keep saying so.
I would like to stress that once again and we have also made that change quite clear.
In addition, I would also like to remind you all that we absolutely do have a social clause in the Services Directive.
This is because we have included, in Article 1, a clause whereby the labour and social law of the Member States cannot be jeopardised by the application of the Services Directive.
Thus, if something like that were to happen in a Member State - and I did say this at the beginning - that would be an incorrect implementation of the Services Directive.
If you want to speak of the Rüffert case and others, that has no relevance to the Services Directive.
Such cases relate to the Posting of Workers Directive and its implementation and to the public procurement directives.
Please do not fall into the trap of comparing apples and oranges.
While apples and oranges perhaps both produce a good fruit stew, that is completely the wrong approach to take in politics.
We therefore really need to very closely monitor what happens.
I repeat my call for us to ensure that the Services Directive is correctly transposed in the Member States and not used to take rights away or to deregulate - that is not the job of the Services Directive.
Of course, it remains a quite clear demand for us that we in the European Union in any case need a legal framework to protect services of general economic interest.
I am eager to see what the Commission will produce for us in this regard.
