Madam President, Mrs Koch-Mehrin, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission is aware of the report from the German Federal Environment Agency and has, of course, once again carefully investigated the facts.
The background to the situation is as follows.
As a result of a decision by the European Council in 2007 and subsequent resolutions by the European Parliament and the Energy Council - in other words, after wide-ranging consultation with Parliament and the Member States - the Commission submitted its proposal for an ecodesign regulation in 2009.
This included the gradual changeover from conventional light bulbs to energy-saving bulbs which make more efficient use of electricity.
We believe that in the European lighting and light bulb market, it will be possible to achieve a total saving of 40 billion kilowatt hours, which corresponds to electricity costs of between EUR 5 billion and EUR 10 billion.
The directive includes a number of safety measures, with the focus being on mercury and maximum limits.
These were lowered significantly once again in September last year in order to further reduce the potential risks to the public.
The findings in the study commissioned by the German Federal Environment Agency have led us to ask the Scientific Committee on Health and Environmental Risks to issue another statement.
After reviewing the entire body of scientific literature, the committee has come to the conclusion that broken compact fluorescent bulbs are very unlikely to present any risk to human health.
However, there is one problem in this area.
The studies are based on trials involving adults.
Of course, it is obvious that children need to be considered separately, which is why we are working together with the German Federal Environment Agency to produce the appropriate results for children as quickly as possible.
We are monitoring the situation very carefully.
I am in contact with the aforementioned agency so that we can carry out a rapid, joint evaluation of any additional tests it organises.
Our overall conclusion is that, because of the need for confidence among everyone involved, we will continue with the gradual implementation of the regulation.
However, we will be happy to report to Parliament again if findings emerge which could give rise to a different evaluation.
This is the situation at the moment.
