Madam President, it is good that just for once, an own-initiative report is not being hidden away on a Monday and dealt with in just a few minutes.
This is a result of the 463 amendments from the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the 211 amendments from the associated Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
I would have liked to have seen a commitment to continuing the successful occupational pension systems in Germany, Luxembourg, Finland and Austria.
Unfortunately, there was a majority decision to recommend new minimum standards and the application of Solvency II to occupational pensions.
This will bring the risk of significantly higher costs, which, in Germany alone, could amount to an increase of 40% on the voluntary occupational pension.
We must not destroy what has been achieved on the basis of a consensus between unions and management.
I was able to contribute to the compromises by proposing that in future, all the effects of the minimum standards and of Solvency II must be evaluated in detail in an in-depth impact assessment.
That represents progress towards the continuation of occupational pensions, although it is by no means a guarantee.
One positive point is that we do not have a standardised definition of adequate pension levels.
In addition, the proposal of a harmonised retirement age for the EU has been rejected.
Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy are rightly in favour of the gradual convergence of the pension systems and the retirement age.
As birth rates and life expectancy vary in different countries, each national pension system must be adapted to meet demographic changes.
The compromises were achieved under serious time pressure.
I hope that we will all be able to hold a more detailed debate on the White Paper, which will include the practical experience of businesses.
The amounts involved in voluntary occupational pensions alone are greater than those in the current EU rescue package.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149 (8))
