Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the confidence of consumers has been badly shaken once again and consumers are, quite naturally, asking themselves what the national authorities are doing and what is the EU doing to put a stop to the work of these contaminators.
In contrast to the Commissioner, I do not believe that it was an accident or mere chance.
I believe that behind this, there is a system whereby particular companies earn millions from a blend of substances that do not actually belong in feed.
They then evade liability and farmers and consumers pay the price.
I believe that this needs to be our starting point, and we of course also need to ask ourselves whether the checks are being made in the wrong place?
In Germany, there are a handful of companies in the feed sector that work with fat.
Why do we not apply targeted checks there?
Why do we rely on self checks and receive values rather randomly that then require state checks to be carried out ex post?
In other words, we need a risk-based form of monitoring throughout Europe.
Therefore, Commissioner, my question to you is: what is the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) doing in this regard?
Is this a German case or are there other cases in Europe that are perhaps yet to be discovered?
I believe we are in agreement that we need a positive list of what feed is actually permitted to contain.
We need strict authorisation rules for the companies and we need a liability obligation and the separation of the commodity flows.
However, I believe - and this needs to be reiterated here - that we also need a fundamental change of course in many policy areas, because, at the end of the day, feed for animals should come from our fields and not from industrial enterprises.
Farmers need to know what they are feeding their animals, and consumers also need to know where the feed comes from.
We need to ensure that this is the case.
We can, and must, start the agricultural reform here, by turning this situation around again, because ultimately, the whole of agriculture suffers as a result of the damage caused here by a few criminals contaminating feed, and that is something that we must prevent as a matter of principle.
