Mr President, I am afraid that I am going to be the person to pour cold water on this.
Despite the many improvements to the Commission proposal that were introduced during the consultation with the committees, for which we mainly have the rapporteur, Mr Schwab, to thank, in my opinion the current package contains an excessive number of regulations and will result in over-complex legislation.
This will be very difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises in particular to cope with.
In addition, it will not really benefit consumers, it will have very little effect in terms of harmonisation and it will not allow us to make progress with the internal market and with Europe as a business location.
Given the small amount of time available, I can unfortunately only look at one point.
The Commission proposal has massively extended the scope of two definitions and in this case it has gone much too far, which is clear from the fact that 1 600 amendments have been tabled.
It has been difficult to discuss this sensibly in Parliament.
In addition, the Commission has not given any justification for extending these definitions.
Nowhere in the annexes or in the documents submitted to Parliament is there any form of justification for this.
One of the two cases concerns distance sales contracts.
Thankfully, this extension has been returned to the consultation process and has been amended, which is a very welcome move.
However, the second case relates to off-premises contracts, which I would like to look at here.
In future, any contract which is concluded outside a company's business premises will be subject to a whole raft of regulations and rights of withdrawal, even if the consumer, as Mr Obermayr has just mentioned, has asked an electrician, decorator, painter or carpenter and so on to come into his house.
I am aware that there is a whole series of exceptions to this which you, Mr Schwab, and the committee have improved, both in terms of their content and their wording.
Nevertheless, this still leaves a huge number of legal pitfalls in place, which could prove disastrous for micro-businesses and small tradesmen and could even put their very existence at risk.
In my opinion, this part of the proposal is superfluous.
It could be deleted without causing any problems, together with chapter 4 and chapter 5.
In that case, the rest of the proposal and the consultations would not be bad at all.
