Madam President, Mr Barroso, I was pleased to note that you have appreciated the social dimension of this issue and have supported a social settlement.
This will certainly be necessary.
There is no need to repeat much of what my fellow Members have said as I am in complete agreement with them.
I am extremely sceptical of the pact that has been presented by Chancellor Merkel and President Sarkozy.
Why is this?
Because their reasons for presenting it are not very clear.
The fact that it has no validity is quite a different issue.
They are both clever strategists.
I cannot accept their claim that things simply happened this way.
I believe that they mean things precisely as stated there.
This is the point I would like to return to once again.
I believe that this is a very serious issue.
Although they believe that this clause on the indexation of wages and salaries is the right answer, I am not so sure.
In black and white terms, increasing the pensionable age can also be described as a reduction in pensions.
It will be extremely hard to reduce debt.
After all, even countries like Germany find this very difficult.
I can imagine that Ireland or Greece will find themselves in huge difficulty here.
I am a little sceptical about what the proposed solution is supposed to achieve.
I expect transparency in this matter.
You will receive support from Parliament if you play your part in promoting greater transparency and ensuring that games like this are not played out behind Parliament's back.
If these people want to make social security cuts, they need say so clearly, rather than taking countless detours to reach an objective that you, Mr Barroso, do not share and that we certainly do not share.
We are prepared to discuss the concept of coordinated European economic governance with you provided that this economic governance is worthy of the name, in other words, that it is democratic in structure and that it will help establish a sustainable, socially responsible European community.
We are also willing to discuss amendments to the Treaty, for example, in relation to a social progress clause.
However, we expect more detailed and earlier information and consultation.
This is the only way that Parliament can monitor this process.
It cannot be done without information!
