Mr President, Mrs Geoghegan-Quinn, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to give my sincere thanks to Mrs Merkies for her hard work.
I would also like to thank the many Members who were involved and the Commission for its support.
We are largely in agreement on this issue.
Over the years, we have adopted a large number of programmes and papers here, from the Lisbon strategy to Europe 2020, and many more.
We have constantly said that the future of Europe will depend on whether we succeed in resolving the question of innovation.
We all agree that this involves all aspects of education, training and research, and that the entrepreneurial side is also important.
Nevertheless, it is true, as a previous speaker has just said, that other regions of the world are obviously able to mobilise talent and ideas more effectively than we can.
Therefore, we need to stop for at least a second or two to think about the reasons for this.
Is it because we are providing too little funding or because we cannot find the right way of exploiting the potential that is there?
This is what Mrs Merkies referred to in her speech.
I would like to mention briefly one other issue.
I was part of a delegation to California and one evening, we met with young entrepreneurs and people who wanted to start new companies.
I will never forget that evening.
Those young people's eyes were shining, they were full of enthusiasm and they and others believed that they were capable of achieving something.
They only asked for one thing.
They wanted help for everyone who aimed to start up a business, so that they were given a chance, had the freedom to act, and did not spend all their time grappling with red tape.
I will not forget this, because it was a very, very important signal for me.
How can we increase the effectiveness of our investments in research?
I believe that the contributions made by the European Research Council (ERC) and the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT) in the area of research are interesting and exciting and could produce good results.
The questions concerning venture capital and people can probably best be answered if we as politicians do not attempt to evaluate all the questions, to come to a decision and to draw up guidelines.
Perhaps only a few regulations are needed.
As Mrs Merkies has said, less is often more.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
