Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of India, I would like to state that I expressly agree with the Commissioner that it is good for us to be in talks with this country regarding a trade agreement.
The strategic reasons alone - you mentioned some of them - speak for themselves.
In particular, the fact that, regrettably, we are not making any progress within the framework of the WTO also speaks even more in favour of this free trade agreement with India.
However, the issue that is still causing me concern is whether we really will obtain access to the Indian market for our enterprises.
Does this free trade agreement ultimately really only suit the world and the division of economic power between Europe and India that we know today, or will this agreement still be suitable in ten or 15 years' time?
In this regard, I am increasingly concerned about the issue of the exclusions.
I fully understand why India is currently demanding certain exclusions in certain sectors in the negotiations.
A country at the level of development at which India currently finds itself needs exclusions.
This is certainly something that we in Europe can understand very well.
However, I would expressly like to see all these exclusions expire on a particular day.
I would like the exclusions to be provided either with a clear time limit or with definite benchmarks, however they are structured - perhaps the Commission could consider what proposals it intends to bring to the table to go some way towards meeting India's demands.
I would therefore like very clear limits for all exclusions, whether in the form of time limits or benchmarks.
We more than owe that to our enterprises and thus, also to our workers.
I would be very grateful if you could tell us to what extent you have such exclusions and possible limits for them in view in the negotiations.
The second important subject that you mentioned and that I would like to express my agreement with is the subject of intellectual property.
We absolutely must achieve a result that benefits our farmers and other parties affected here, particularly in the area of geographical indications.
We must also help our manufacturers when it comes to medicines, but I think that we will all agree that this must not be to the detriment of those who are dependent on access to cheap medicines.
