Mr President, President of the Commission, President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the European Council summit is taking place at a time when there are a ridiculous number of other urgent topics in addition to the one that was intended for debate.
Mr Schulz rightly mentioned that we are all expecting the European Council to make a statement with regard to Egypt and what is happening there and for it to concern itself with this matter.
That is correct.
Mr Schulz, I could have agreed with you completely on this if you had not made the mistake in the second part of your speech of once again making a cheap party political show by arguing with the Hungarians.
That has absolutely nothing to do with it, we are currently talking about the Council and about the topics that are on the agenda.
Mrs Harms, I would also like to make one thing clear about what you said.
When you rightly say that these pressing issues - economic issues, issues relating to the euro and to Egypt - need to be dealt with, you cannot then also accuse Commissioner Oettinger of no longer dealing with the energy issue adequately.
That is absurd.
This is due to the fact that the Council has to deal with other matters as well.
Whether or not energy policy suits you or if other people have a different opinion does not make it good or bad.
It cannot be evaluated according to such a criterion.
I think that the Commission has made very thorough and sensible preparations for the summit in the last few months.
It has not been following the principle of constantly making new demands.
Instead, it makes sound and thorough preparations and then takes measures that will actually result in change.
Incidentally, Mr Schulz - he is not even listening, but that does not matter, this is just the parliamentary debating game where we blatantly talk at cross purposes.
(Heckling)
You spoke about poverty that can arise as a result of energy prices.
You are absolutely right.
However, Mr Schulz, to be fair we then have to ask the question: why are energy prices so high?
What is the reason for this?
What part do we play in this when we adopt political measures that constantly send prices souring?
That is also a contributing factor - not the only one - but it should also be included in an honest debate and we need to take into account the new requirements that are being adopted here continually from morning to night.
In my view, this summit provides an enormous opportunity for us finally to move forward on the issue of infrastructure and to ensure that investment in infrastructure and energy is undertaken, because all other issues depend on us managing to do this.
There arises the question of prices, reliability and also of whether we integrate renewable energies properly into the network, and for this we unfortunately need considerable investment.
Moreover, the state will not be able to bear this cost alone.
(The speaker agreed to take a question under the 'blue card' procedure (Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure)).
