Mr President, Baroness Ashton, I should first like to thank our rapporteur, Mr Belder, for his comprehensive report.
As soon as it is now put to a vote, it will be passed by a large majority here in this plenary.
It is really important that the regime in Tehran must not succeed in breaking a broad common front even in this Chamber.
As regards the nuclear ambitions of the leadership, the international community stands together at the United Nations.
No one in the world wants the Iranian bomb.
We all want complete and transparent collaboration with the International Atomic Energy Agency.
We have made wide-ranging offers.
Unfortunately, they have not met with a positive response.
In this House, we are not quite all of one mind as to how far we should enforce international demands with sanctions.
I hope, however, that in our overall view of the situation, we are coming to a common way to proceed.
The second aspect that worries us is Iran's role in the region.
Iran's attitude to Israel remains intolerable and unacceptable.
Its support for organisations that destabilise the region cannot be tolerated.
Large parts of the region are in fear of Iran's policy.
The internal political situation is dramatic where human rights and democracy are concerned.
It is for that reason that I harbour the wish that this great people of culture will rid itself of this leadership sooner rather than later.
I am very confident that we shall not see a second Iran in Egypt, but rather a second Egypt in Iran.
Then we should see an end to the exploitation of religion for very secular aims.
Then one hopes that there would be an end to the death penalty in general and, in particular, for minors and members of minorities.
Then there would be an end to the persecution of dissidents, not only of Mr Karoubi and Mr Mousavi, and then one hopes there would be press freedom and a path to free elections for a better Iran.
On the way there, we must put our European Instrument for Democracy and Human Rights to use among other things, so as to allow support to be given to active players in civil society.
Targeted sanctions against representatives of the regime must also be extended.
In the light of the events in North Africa, let us also give Iranians the courage for a better future.
