Mr President, Commissioner, the motions for resolutions that the European Parliament has been presented with make it clear to all groups that Parliament - as has already been emphasised - does not feel it is sufficiently informed about the specific status of the negotiations.
I am therefore grateful for the more detailed information that we have been given today.
The questions from the left side of this House in particular deal directly with the concerns of the people in Europe, but also in India, and these are concerns for their own social and economic situation and the prospects of workers and those looking for work, including in the EU Member States.
As we know, the devil is in the detail, so we would like to know the following, Commissioner: what are the specific subjects of the negotiations when it comes to public invitations to tender in the services sector or in connection with labour migration?
What text is on the table with regard to intellectual property rights?
What is the situation with regard to the environment and agriculture?
By using the specific texts, we want to examine whether the role of India as the pharmacy to the world's poor is put at risk or whether the production of cheaper malaria medicines or medicines for the treatment of AIDS will be obstructed by the agreement, without ignoring the massive research investments also made by our own pharmaceutical companies.
We want to examine whether European local authorities, hospitals or ministries are, in future, to be obliged to make calls for tenders in which Indian companies can also be included.
We want to know whether the agreement will regulate the conditions of entry into the Member States of the European Union of Indian nurses or carers for the elderly, including the length of stay and recognition of qualifications.
We want to know whether the agreement text will put small-scale farmers and fishermen in India at risk and whether European steel workers are threatened with redundancy because Indian capital will, in future, be able to be invested freely in the purchase of companies in the EU as a result of the agreement.
