Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, why are we here?
Mr Barnier said that we are here because the European Parliament has succeeded in establishing European supervisory authorities that are worthy of the name.
That was not part of the Council's programme.
It was not part of the Member States' programme.
The Commission, too, had doubts about how long we would actually persevere with regard to the establishment of this new institution.
The Council will understand - it will have to understand - and the Commission will, too - possibly even of its own accord - why we are concerned.
No, this European Parliament - and this is a statement that I find applies to all party groups, not just to us as Social Democrats - will not allow national games to be played that undermine the powers of these new supervisory authorities.
That is why we are interested in the appointment of staff, of course.
We have rights in this regard - we have to be consulted.
There are one or two things that in fact give us cause for concern.
We receive lists of individuals and we receive lists, which when we look at we cannot actually tell whether a gender criterion has been applied.
We are given proposals for candidates, which when we consider - and I say this with all due respect to the people concerned - we do not see anyone that we believe could not do a decent job.
These are clearly good people who have already shown in their jobs that they can do their work well, but the people that have been presented to us are not people who, on the basis of any authority that they may have demonstrated in their past work, can actually say to the national supervisory authorities where they would stand in the event of a conflict.
Where there is European supervision, national momentum comes to a standstill.
That surprises and annoys us, and it must call us into action.
No, these procedures are unsatisfactory, and I ask myself why, for example, we cannot take the same approach as we are taking with regard to those responsible for OLAF, where you are of course interested in the opinion of this House.
Why can we not do that?
We still have another opportunity with regard to the executive directors.
You can still demonstrate that you are interested in the opinion of the European Parliament.
You still have another opportunity.
I would urge you both - President-in-Office of the Council and former fellow Member Mrs Győri and Commissioner Barnier, to take this opportunity.
You can take on board the objections of this House.
You can tell us very clearly how you want to work with us in future.
You can tell us very clearly what goals you will support in the 2013 reform and how you will equip the institutions.
You will also be able to make it very clear whether you are interested in our opinion in respect of those members of staff that are still to be appointed.
I therefore ask you in all earnestness in the interests of Europe to provide these rules quickly.
