Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with the statement by Mr Ashworth, which played off a smarter European budget against a higher budget.
I do not consider this to be a true alternative.
Indeed, we must pursue a smarter budgetary policy by identifying precisely where money can be saved, where management can be improved and where the administration is particularly constraining.
However, the task of this special committee was to find out how much money we need in order to be able to deal appropriately with the new political challenges faced.
Thus, what we need is openness to reform and political courage.
We need to organise ourselves in such a way that we can respond to the major challenges posed by 2020.
I do not believe that this can be achieved from your position, Mr Ashworth; instead, I would back Mr Böge, who I believe is correct and faithful to the Treaty when he says that we need to have the courage to return to a system that involves what are genuinely our own resources.
This will make the European Union stronger and our financing system more transparent.
This will make it clearer to our citizens where the money is to come from.
From the perspective of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance I would like to add that we are mainly thinking of the financial transaction tax because it will regulate financial transactions and give us the opportunity to establish smarter policies.
Thus, this is one way ahead that will not strangle the Member States, instead opening up new alternatives for us all.
That is why I believe Mr Verhofstadt is right when he says that we must, of course, be prepared to take up joint initiatives such as the establishment of the European External Action Service, while at the same time making savings at national level.
Naturally, we cannot just drop one element and add another.
European responsibility means paring back national expenditure in order to pool resources at European level.
Why is that?
It is because together we are stronger and because we can obtain European value added that is good for our citizens, particularly in the areas of research policy and education policy.
The major tasks ahead of us are ecological transformation and the establishment of intelligent energy networks.
We need money for this and for broadband networks in rural areas.
These are the tasks for the future and this requires a smarter and bigger budget.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
