Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe it is clear that the European Parliament understands why the Treaty modification is based on the simplified procedure.
We are dealing with an emergency situation.
However, it is also obvious that the European Parliament is of the opinion that it is not right for the procedure which puts the crisis mechanism into effect to result in the community method coming to an end in future and the European Parliament and the Commission, at least in part, being excluded.
I would also like to explain our very critical attitude to the increase in intergovernmentalism.
I believe that at the moment, fewer and fewer European citizens understand what decisions are being made in each situation.
The Germans have been set against the Greeks and the Greeks have been set against the Germans.
The Irish believe that the German banks are being rescued at their expense.
This failure to understand the situation has to do with the Council being a black box and with the fact that decisions are only taken at the last minute.
We need more transparency in this area.
Otherwise, we will lose the trust of the citizens faster than we can possibly imagine.
Therefore, you should be prepared, if you want us to submit to the simplified procedure at this point, to reinforce Parliament's role as the representative of the citizens in the Council and the Commission, as everyone promised before the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon.
This Treaty and the case for more democracy in Europe were supported not only by you, Mr Barroso, but also by those in power in the Member States.
I would now like to see this being put into practice.
We only need to look at what is happening in Greece at the moment.
There is a plan to privatise the beaches, so that Greece's debt can be serviced.
This represents an end to the way in which the crisis has so far been dealt with.
Focusing completely on a policy of austerity, which has been heavily promoted by Germany, will push these countries with budget deficits closer to the brink of disaster.
We must evaluate what is being done.
We need to discuss the structure of this crisis policy and the alleged policy of solidarity.
How else can we ensure that there is a clear understanding anywhere in Europe of what still needs to be done in this crisis?
I would like to say one more thing at this point.
I believe that we should be prepared to show solidarity with other countries in Europe.
The funds that we currently have available are not sufficient.
A decision was made in Brussels today to provide more liquidity.
We will soon have to talk about this again and also about Eurobonds.
Mr Verhofstadt has provided the correct justification for this.
However, we will also need to discuss what we want our revenue policy to look like in future.
I am sorry that I have overrun.
However, we do ultimately need more time for this debate, so that we can reach a conclusion and not simply take a defensive approach.
(The President cut off the speaker)
