Madam President, Baroness Ashton, we are still a long way from a common foreign policy which is really worthy of the name.
You are being criticised for this, but it sometimes seems to me that you have been made the scapegoat in a situation which is outside your control and which is caused by the fact that the Member States do not have the political will to agree on a common approach.
Let us take the example of Libya.
First of all, Italy blocked the imposition of sanctions, then France recognised the transitional council in Benghazi without any consultation and, finally, Germany abstained during the vote on the resolution in the UN Security Council.
There is nothing you can do to change this, but it gives Europe a negative image.
In Syria, we should have imposed stronger sanctions, but here, we also needed unanimity.
There are some Member States - Greece, Italy and Spain have been mentioned in the press and Germany may also be one of them - which are opposed to this.
In this case, you must stand up here and say: 'We have only been able to put 13 on the list'.
The need for unanimity is paralysing us.
It no longer works with 27 Member States.
We must make the next quantum leap forward in our common foreign and security policy.
I would like to make this quite clear to Mr Tannock and his Tory friends.
What can you do?
Make public the fact that European cooperation has failed and identify who is responsible.
Make use of the community instruments, in particular, to promote democracy.
I was surprised to hear you speaking here so openly about the European Endowment for Democracy.
We are in the process of drawing up a report on the subject with Mrs De Keyser as the rapporteur and we are evaluating what the requirements are.
I must make it quite clear that we do not want a second European Initiative for Democracy and Human Rights (EIDHR), which is bureaucratic, slow, over-complex and unpolitical.
We need a solution that is unbureaucratic, fast, simple and political.
If you can bring this about, you will have our full support.
