Mr President, Baroness Ashton, you have promised us that you will appear more often in front of the European Parliament, so that this will be settled.
I believe that it is important for you, Baroness Ashton, and for everyone else to note that a broad majority of the European Parliament is in support of this issue and that this is an indication that it is part of a sequence of measures and not just a normal resolution.
You are right when you say that we must ensure that intolerance and violence against people because of their religion, regardless of the religion in question, is regarded as unacceptable.
However, it is clear that 75% of the attacks made for this reason in recent years have been directed against Christians.
Christian Europe must take a self-confident approach and defend itself.
It must not remain silent on this issue.
The attacks are taking place to a large extent in Muslim states, but not only there.
Christians are being persecuted in China, for example, and in other countries.
We must not accept violent discrimination or acts of terrorism.
Imposing the death penalty on someone because they have converted to Christianity is not acceptable and neither are the acts of terrorism and terrorist organisations or the fact that public bodies, which are not themselves responsible, turn a blind eye to these actions.
The result of this is that the tradition, which dates back millennia, of Christian groups and communities being present in many countries, including Syria, Turkey, Iraq and Iran, is coming to an end.
If the pressure continues on Christians in Bethlehem, the birthplace of Jesus, there will soon be no Christians living there.
The 20 million Coptic Christians living in Egypt represent a specific problem which we take very seriously.
We cannot talk about minorities in this case.
For this reason, I would like to highlight two demands made in the resolution.
There must be clear references to the persecution of Christians in the human rights reports produced by the institutions of the European Union, including your organisation and the European Parliament.
Resources must be made available within the External Action Service to handle the subject of Christianity and the issues of human rights and freedom of religion must play a major role in the treaties which we sign with other countries.
