Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, fundamental human rights are universal, which means that they are applicable in every situation.
I have been listening to the debate.
None of the speakers so far, including the critics, has quoted the constitution to indicate exactly what it is they do not like.
Mr López Aguilar says that he gets the impression that something has gone awry, while others are making insinuations about all the things that could go wrong with this constitution.
Not one person has actually quoted from the constitution itself.
That is precisely the problem that faces us in this discussion: where are the actual accusations?
When I consider how the Hungarians will react to this debate and to the accusations being bandied about by some of my fellow Members without any support from direct quotations, then I can well imagine that some will find the way that the Hungarians and their country's development are being discussed here to be extremely arrogant.
As Europeans, we should take care to avoid leaving ourselves open to such accusations.
I would like to state that many of those in positions of responsibility in Hungary today are the people who took to the streets to fight against communism and for liberty.
It is simply unacceptable that accusations should be continuously made against these people and that the impression should be created that they are experiencing problems with freedom.
This has nothing to do with party politics; it is simply a fact.
Having complained that no quotes have been used during this debate, I would now like to quote from the new Hungarian constitution: 'We are proud of the fact that our country has been part of Christian Europe for 1 000 years and we are aware of the role of Christianity in sustaining our nation'.
I am pleased to find such sentiments in a constitution.
This may not please all Members of this House.
I am pleased that this reference to Christianity has been included and I would also have liked to have seen it included in the Treaty of Lisbon and in the European constitution.
My position, as a representative of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) is that this is a good thing.
