Mr President, honourable Members, firstly I would like to express my thanks for the commitment you have shown in this comprehensive debate involving a large number of speeches.
This is evidence of the need to address the issues relating to regional policy and cohesion policy in detail in this House.
I would like to begin with something very important to me.
It was very important to Parliament in terms of timing, and something that I welcomed myself, that Parliament should have the opportunity to form a detailed, multilayered opinion prior to the publication of our draft regulations, and that this opinion should then also find expression in the relevant regulations.
For this reason, I would crave your understanding that at this point I am unable to offer comprehensive proposals in writing because these will be based in particular on the reports now being presented.
It is very important that we place greater emphasis on the quality of the work with the regions, particularly when we look at some countries that are experiencing genuine structural problems.
In this case it is necessary not just to address the allocation of resources and the identification of objectives, but also to help with the definition of the programmes for identifying objectives and to assist with the formation of clusters in individual regions and parts of regions in order to generate sustainable economic growth.
At the risk of repeating what some speakers have already mentioned, I would point out that our proposal will contain a separate chapter on multi-level governance, setting out our stall and calling on all stakeholders to cooperate in the drafting of operative programmes in the regions.
At this point, I would also call on those in positions of responsibility in the regions to ensure that local administrations are included.
This is because I, like many of you, have heard complaints from the regions that national authorities are not included, while local administrations bemoan the fact that the regional level fails to include them.
If we look at the idea of ownership, which has been mentioned several times already, then it is certainly necessary for all of you to lend a hand.
Simplification is a much-used, if not to say over-used, word that provides a challenge to us all.
However, simplification cannot simply mean that controls are just relaxed.
We must use suitable means to try to simplify our business.
I place great hope in the work being done by Mr Barnier in the area of public procurement, simplifying the process by further standardising procedures, reducing the margin for error and thereby making a meaningful contribution to simplification.
We must play our part in this by making further proposals in relation to flat rate amounts, etc.
Here, too, it will be important for the Member States to follow our lead.
One of the speakers suggested that the European Structural Fund might perhaps be split away from the structural fund family, but we have no plans in this direction.
Much of what needs to happen in rural areas should also be covered by the European Agricultural Fund for Rural Development, the purpose of which is not just to support farmers, but also to support rural areas.
As we know there are several players and participants in this sector.
Here, too, the task is to achieve better coordination between the various funds, which is a general objective for the joint strategic framework.
Conditionality will help us to improve the quality of our work.
A lot has been said today about the transitional regions, most of it proper and important.
The point is to aid development in these regions, which do not yet reflect the European average.
This is the whole point of regional policy.
The crux of the matter is as follows: to contribute to growth in qualitative and quantitative terms and to ensure that Europe 2020 objectives are achieved, for example in the areas of energy, climate change, innovation, research, education and training, employment and the campaign to combat poverty.
I should like to thank everyone for this highly committed debate, and also for the enormous support that the House has shown for our policies.
