on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently witnessing a historic situation, because the Free Trade Agreement with South Korea that we are debating and that we intend to adopt is the first Free Trade Agreement that has been debated under the new Lisbon system, which grants Parliament full power of codecision.
This makes an important area of policy - trade policy - more democratic.
We, as Parliament, consider this to be important.
The debate here in Parliament has also shown that, as regards safeguard clauses, we were able to include important concerns expressed to us by workers, companies and associations in an improved safeguard clause that is intended to protect the interests of industry and, above all, jobs in the future by creating a level playing field and fair conditions for competition and avoiding asymmetries.
That is what we as the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe have concentrated on.
As shadow rapporteur for our group, I am pleased that we were able to be successful in this regard.
The duty drawback mechanism, which caused us concern to start with, has now been explicitly included in the safeguard clause and there is the option for industry, and also for Parliament, to call on the Commission to carry out an investigation.
A monitoring process is planned, which is intended to be established in a transparent way via an online platform, and there is greater scope for the investigation of the factors that will decide whether significant damage has been done to European industry.
Mechanisms for monitoring to be carried out by the Commission, particularly for sensitive sectors in the event of increased imports, are also provided for.
We can start with this and focus on the advantages associated with the South Korea agreement, such as the considerable reduction in duties - the Commission expects enterprises in Europe to be able to save EUR 1.6 billion.
I would therefore like to thank Commissioner De Gucht, who has personally worked hard to enable us to reach a compromise, including with the Council.
I would also like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs, especially Mr Sturdy and Mr Zalba Bidegain, for their excellent work.
We have achieved something really good here.
