Madam President, what we need to do, quite simply, is to strengthen the research community and thus the economic power of Europe amidst international competition.
We therefore need to examine what own resources could be available to us in the Eighth Framework Programme for research.
I would like to call on the Commissioner to make use of the revenue generated through the emissions trading system in order to actually resolve the CO2 problem.
That would be a significant starting point.
We would have tens of billions of euro available to us that we could use for the 'intelligent energy' programme, for our wide range of battery platforms, and for the many ways of providing ourselves with a sustainable environment.
That could be discussed with Commissioner Lewandowski and, of course, with the finance ministers.
We also need to enhance the Competition and Innovation Programme (CIP).
I believe that, in the CIP in particular, information and communications technology should be used to provide the necessary equipment and hardware to allow researchers to communicate faster, better and more efficiently using the latest technology.
Integrating optical fibre connections in satellite equipment and forming corresponding clusters would be a sensational undertaking, as would the establishment of the European Institute for Technology.
In this regard, we simply need to introduce the content of the research carried out in the Seventh Framework Programme for research and the CIP and the various other programmes to our educational establishments, namely, to professors, teachers and nursery school teachers.
We quite simply need pupils and students to have access to the most up-to-date knowledge of our time.
Last but not least, the European Research Council does an excellent job, and the work that it funds should be made widely available to the public as quickly as possible.
I would like to expressly thank Mr Audy once again for supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, and as Mr Correia De Campos also said, the 'Eurostars' programme could become one of the major projects of the future.
