Madam President, Mr Oettinger, so far, the debate has gone as I expected it to, but not as I wanted it to.
Initially after Fukushima, you moved in the right direction and set yourself objectives which included a comprehensive, in-depth investigation of all the risks presented by European nuclear power stations on the basis of what we had learnt at the time from Fukushima.
Now we know even more about Fukushima, including the fact that the disaster was systematically played down and that the core meltdowns occurred much earlier than the Japanese admitted.
We also know about the problems in the monitoring systems.
However, today you have made a big mistake.
As a Commissioner who is taking over a responsibility which he does not have, you should have said: 'Mrs Harms, honourable Members of the European Parliament, I have taken on a big task, but I have only made a small amount of progress'.
You should have referred to the fact that there are major problems, that the stress tests are purely voluntary, that they are only being carried out on paper and that they are largely in the hands of the operators, which is where they always have been.
You should have admitted this and then I would have been able to take you more seriously.
In that case, we could have had further useful discussions about what has and has not been achieved.
What you have presented us with, Mr Oettinger, is basically a strategy which will help to play down the risks involved in the European nuclear power programme as it currently stands.
At some point, there will be a sort of Oettinger seal of approval on the old reactors which will certify that tests have once again been carried out on paper of all the things that have often been tested before.
You really have little to say on the subject of safety and we have not moved much further on from that.
Because of the Euratom Treaty, Parliament has almost no influence over nuclear safety and we have not made any progress in that area.
I will be interested to see how the debate about genuine common safety standards goes.
This is what we will judge you on again.
However, that is in the future and what we have achieved so far is extremely poor.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
