Madam President, Commissioner, the German dioxin scandal has shaken the confidence of European consumers and they are rightly demanding the highest level of safety and complete traceability in food production.
Ultimately, agriculture's international reputation has been damaged by the negligent behaviour of large animal feed producers.
I call on the Commission urgently to restore confidence in high quality European agricultural production, which meets the highest standards.
Identification of all of those responsible and limitation of the damage in the German dioxin scandal are just the start.
Swift and comprehensive measures need to be taken to prevent such practices by animal feed manufacturers in the future.
The animal feed chain is not somewhere to dispose of waste, and industrial waste products have no place in animal feed.
I call for more stringent, EU-wide rules, particularly with regard to transport.
Even one contamination of animal feed is unacceptable.
However, above all, what is essential is that a full and comprehensive inspection of these companies is carried out.
No farmer who is inspected several times a year can understand the current practice with regard to checks on large animal feed producers.
Nevertheless, it should be noted that in the case we have just been discussing, the ball started rolling as a result of self reporting and the competent authorities responded correctly.
The most important thing, however, is to turn our attention to the farmers who have unfairly suffered damage.
They urgently need support, because the damage that has occurred must not, under any circumstances, be passed on to them.
The existence of thousands of farmers is currently under threat.
Last Friday, the producer price in the pig fattening sector came in at EUR 0.23 per kilogram.
By the end of last year, pig producers had already had to cope with a drop of EUR 0.13.
The situation is made worse by the fact that the cost of feed has risen sharply in recent weeks.
We need to find solutions to this quickly.
Consumer confidence in agricultural products must not, under any circumstances, be jeopardised by greed and negligence.
