Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to thank Mr Audy and all my fellow Members who have worked on this.
A review of this kind is, of course, an important prerequisite for the conclusions that we then need to draw.
We would surely all agree that the question of investment in research is central to the future of Europe.
However, whether we then have the courage to draw the right conclusions from this remains to be seen when we go into the next round.
Do we have the courage to ensure that we do, and will we manage to make adequate financial resources available?
Everyone says that we will, but it will be difficult.
How will we manage to use the existing resources more efficiently?
I am very grateful for the fact that, in this debate, we have attached a great deal of importance to the question of simplification, including in connection with Mrs Carvalho's report.
How are we going to do things more simply, faster and more effectively, and how are we going to achieve better results with the existing resources?
Alongside the question of adequate funding, that is another key issue.
Thirdly, we must ensure - and in this regard I would contradict some of my fellow Members - that we do not distribute the funds according to the principle that 'everyone should get a bit'.
That is not the principle we should use for research funds.
Research funds can only be allocated according to the principle of excellence.
The result - regrettably - is that the funds are not distributed equally to all Member States.
That means that we face an enormous task, namely that of ensuring that improvements are made in precisely those Member States that do not yet meet the excellence criteria.
For this, we clearly need other instruments, because this issue has not yet been resolved.
In future, we will need an array of instruments, not to ensure that the funds are evenly distributed, but so that other funds with other instruments are used in order to place the emphasis on particular aspects.
Last but not least, we must fund fewer projects.
We cannot avoid taking a decision as regards which elementary aspects we want to focus on.
If everyone introduces a new subject, it will not benefit research funding in the long run.
We need to have the courage to look and see what is particularly good and what, in particular, we want to continue to fund.
