Mr President, Mr Orbán, I would like to make some brief remarks about the media law.
Many speakers have mentioned this, but I will not repeat what they have said.
I would just like to make one point.
This is not interference in Hungarian affairs.
I believe, and I have only learnt this late in life, that the media are responsible for monitoring those in power and the economy.
This situation must remain unchanged.
Therefore, the media must not be monitored themselves by other higher level bodies and a media authority of this kind would make this possible.
For this reason, the composition of the media authority is, in our eyes, not ideal.
You have clearly stated that you are prepared to change this and I hope that you do move in this direction.
Otherwise, and I would like to make this quite clear, it is a Hungarian affair.
Of course, there are other Member States whose media legislation we could mention in this context.
This does not only relate to Hungary.
I would like to say quite clearly with regard to your plans for the Council Presidency, firstly, that I welcome the fact that you have made promoting cultural diversity one of your overriding objectives.
I believe that this is very important.
I look forward to your initiatives to improve integration, including the integration of minorities, and you yourself have referred to the Roma.
A European strategy to integrate the Roma more effectively is a very important issue.
Secondly, I am pleased to see that you are committed to the enlargement negotiations and the policy with regard to our eastern neighbours.
Bringing more Eastern European culture, together with the historical and social experience of the area, into the European Union can only be a good thing.
For many reasons which I do not want to go into here, the European Union is still primarily a Western European institution.
I would like to see your Council Presidency exerting a greater Eastern European influence.
Thirdly, I will be interested to see how you handle the forthcoming reorganisation of agriculture and cohesion policy and the preparation of the European Union's multiannual budgetary perspective.
My group calls on you to ensure that Parliament is fully involved in all of this and we expect you take seriously your promise to support small and medium-sized businesses and to improve environmental protection, the sustainable use of resources and food security.
