on behalf of the PPE Group. - Madam President, Minister, Commissioner, transparency is a cornerstone of democracy, ensuring that people know who exerts influence and how decisions are made.
Since the entry into force of the Treaty of Lisbon, the European Parliament has significantly more power.
That is why it is right that our modus operandi should always be open to debate and that we should question ourselves.
The negotiations between the European Parliament and the Commission in relation to the transparency register are a success and we have now produced an excellent result.
I would like to underline once again that it is good that we have found clear regulations for the local and regional authorities, and even for churches, that reflect their interests.
I would also like to say that we do not regard lobbyism as something bad per se.
We need expert opinions and we need to be able to call on experts for our work.
In the end it is important that we, as parliamentarians, should be able to consider issues freely and make decisions independently.
I would now like to state that we parliamentarians have a lot to be proud of.
If we conduct a national comparison, we will see that there are only a few Member States of the European Union who have already established a transparency register at this level.
In my country's capital, Berlin, where I also happen to live, there is no such transparency register, which is why we should all be aware that this is a truly significant step forward.
To the Council I would say: if this issue is not a problem for the Council because lobbyists have very little influence there, then it should be easier for it to sign up to the transparency register.
Accordingly, the Council may be able to conquer its internal resistance.
Finally, Madam President, I would point out that if we in Parliament want to escape the influence of lobbyists to a greater extent in future, then we will need greater supports and more staff, enabling us to achieve more for the citizens of the European Union.
