Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the American political scientist Samuel Huntington once predicted a clash of civilizations.
Had we relied on this, we would ourselves have played a part in bringing about this clash of civilizations as part of a self-fulfilling prophecy.
We, the European Parliament, have always worked for cooperation with the Arab states and the people there.
Now we are seeing how the peoples of the Arab world are striving for values that we also represent: democracy, freedom and the rule of law.
Who would have expected just a few weeks ago that the Arab League would be asking us, the western and the international community, to stop the tyrant in Libya?
There is a sea change under way in the Arab world.
We must not make any mistakes here.
We must not just pay lip service to the peoples of the Arab countries, but rather must support them in what we do.
This evening I am travelling to Tunisia on behalf of the Konrad Adenauer Foundation, of which I am president, just as I was in Cairo two and a half weeks ago.
I would like to reiterate the words of Konrad Adenauer, the first Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany, who said: 'We are on the side of freedom'.
We now need to say to the Arab peoples: 'If it is what you yourselves want, then we want to help you by providing solidarity and advice on democracy so that you can prepare for elections'.
We hear with some dismay that a terrorist attack was carried out today in Jerusalem and that many people were injured.
We condemn this in the strongest possible terms, whoever is responsible.
However, we also say that there must now be peace between Israel and Palestine.
If the wind of freedom is blowing through the Arab states then the opportunity must be seized to bring about peace between Israel and Palestine too, so that Israel can live within safe borders but also so that the Palestinian people, who deserve the same dignity as the Israelis, can also live within safe borders.
This is our task as this great change takes place in the Arab world: to make our contribution as the European Union and to so in a united and resolute manner.
(Applause)
