Mr President, Mr Barnier, I would like to respond to my fellow Member's remarks.
Instead of a social clause, the committee has proposed investigating the impact that the measures in the internal market will have on employment.
This is much more important than applying general formulae.
If we want to make progress with the internal market, we must pay attention to social issues and put the emphasis on them in everything we do.
For this reason, an impact assessment which specifically takes these requirements into account is particularly important.
I would like to make one more comment.
I was surprised to hear the President speak about economic governance, which is still translated in German as Wirtschaftslenkung.
This term is also used to mean central state control of the economy.
We have had very bad experiences of state control of the economy in one area of Germany.
I am certain that we can only develop the internal market further if we coordinate all our national economies.
That is abundantly clear.
However, we will not be able to make progress with the internal market by means of economic governance.
Today, we are discussing how we can bring some momentum to the internal market.
This is long overdue, because we will be celebrating the 20th anniversary of the internal market next year.
Therefore, I welcome Mr Barnier's statement in which he said that he wants to focus on a few specific measures that have not yet been implemented and that will give a new impetus to the internal market.
The internal market represents a huge opportunity for all of us.
It can lead to the creation of more jobs and our goal must be to find work for people.
This is the very best social policy that we can put in place, because people who are employed will also develop self-esteem.
Therefore, we must do everything we can to make sure that progress is made in this area.
We need a balanced package of measures which brings advantages for businesses and for citizens.
On the one hand, we want medium-sized companies in particular to benefit more from the internal market than they have done in the past.
Therefore, we urgently need an EU patent system, so that companies can at last protect and sell their innovative products throughout Europe for a reasonable cost.
In addition, businesses need more funding to develop innovations.
A European venture capital market is just one of many measures that can be taken.
The harmonisation of value-added tax and the corporate tax base that we are now discussing will also give a boost to the internal market.
On the other hand, we also need to take specific measures which will increase citizens' trust in the internal market.
We must improve the recognition of professional qualifications, possibly by means of the European professional card.
This will make it easier to work in another Member State and will create more mobility for citizens within the European internal market.
We also need a European market surveillance organisation, and I would like to emphasise this point, because the Member States are constantly failing to put the dossier into practice.
We do not want dangerous products to be sold on the internal market.
If we can adopt this proposal with a large majority, we will be able to give a new impetus to the internal market.
