Mr President, Mrs Györi, Commissioner Reding, as has already been made abundantly clear by the previous speakers, in recent years, the European Arrest Warrant has proven itself to be a useful instrument for fighting crime.
Criminals in Europe are no longer free to exploit our open borders in the way that they might otherwise have been able to.
Despite the innumerable successes that have taken place, however, the past seven years have also shown that the system is not yet perfect and that it is not being used in the way originally intended.
You drew attention to some of these weaknesses in your recent report.
For example, there is no right to legal representation, prison conditions are, in some cases, disgraceful and very often the investigations take an extremely long time.
The fundamental point, which has also already been mentioned several times, is the failure of issuing states to apply consistent or indeed any consideration of whether the measure is proportionate.
This matter is particularly close to my heart because the real intention of the European Arrest Warrant is frequently being undermined by the systematic issue of arrest warrants, often for minor offences.
In Poland, for example - as has also been mentioned previously - where the largest number of European Arrest Warrants are issued, the judicial authorities simply do not have the power to stop national proceedings because the system has become automatic.
I do not believe that this is what was intended.
Before a European Arrest Warrant is issued, therefore, consideration should be given to how serious the offence is, what the expected penalty is and whether there is a simpler way of dealing with the matter.
Finally, perhaps a cost/benefit analysis should also be carried out so that minor offences are not prosecuted at great expense.
As I see it, consistency also means adapting the existing rules to reality.
In this respect, I should be interested to learn what steps you are thinking of taking in this area.
