Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Oettinger.
He has struggled and he has achieved a great deal.
The results are not perfect, but the accusations being made against Mr Oettinger today apply above all to us.
We must be self-critical and admit that we did not manage to adopt the resolution.
Parts of my group were also not in a position to vote in favour, which is regrettable.
However, the accusations also apply to the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance and to the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament who first of all signed the resolution and then ultimately failed to support it in plenary.
This made Mr Oettinger's life difficult in his struggle with the Member States to introduce more stringent stress tests.
This is the first step, but we must go further.
We need to amend the directive.
Mr Oettinger, we will support you in ensuring that in future, it is made legally binding.
We need to extend it to cover our neighbouring countries.
I fully support what Mrs Morkūnaitė-Mikulėnienhas said.
Germany has been mentioned several times and, of course, we will have to live with the criticism.
However, I would like to point out that 13 EU Member States are already functioning without nuclear energy, including countries with successful economies such as Austria and Denmark, so we must be able to accept this possibility in Germany.
I would also like to say that Chancellor Merkel gave a government policy statement today in the German parliament and highlighted once again that we must at least make joint progress in the areas we agree on in Europe.
For example, she specifically mentioned energy efficiency.
I would like to give Mr Oettinger my support and encourage him to submit an ambitious proposal on the subject of energy efficiency in two weeks.
I am very happy with the parts that we already know about, which are a mix of incentives and obligations for those affected.
I do not like the fact that the Member States are supposed to set their own goals.
We need the Commission to come up with a target, either mandatory or in the form of a guideline.
Please introduce a target and then we will have a very good proposal.
