Mr President, by restricting the title of this debate to support for Italy and other Member States, we are once again making the mistake of focusing only on the problems of the countries bordering on the Mediterranean.
What we are lacking is concern for those people who are fleeing across the sea.
If we really take our principles concerning the protection of refugees seriously, we must first make sure and, if necessary, check in individual cases what situation these people are in and then guarantee that their human rights will be protected.
We must not allow people to be turned away and our borders to be fortified.
The help which the EU border agency Frontex can offer in this situation is constantly referred to.
It is true that it could be helpful if it would focus its activities on protecting and rescuing refugees.
We must not turn away boats full of refugees as we have done in the past.
Here in Parliament, we are currently drawing up a new mandate for Frontex and I hope that we will succeed in introducing improvements, including more transparency and specific requirements for the agency to act in accordance with human rights.
Of course, we also need to help Tunisia quickly to structure its economy in such a way that the people there become more confident of having a chance of earning a decent living in their own country.
We must make it possible for Tunisia to achieve rapid and positive economic development by means of trade with the EU and subsidies for projects there.
This is one of the main requirements of the democratic transformation of Tunisia.
It is completely incomprehensible that once again, many Member States of the EU are leaving the countries bordering on the Mediterranean to cope with an unforeseen influx of refugees.
The call for voluntary action to help islands such as Lampedusa and Malta has fallen on deaf ears.
We must find a binding solution which requires states in the centre and the north of the EU to take in refugees.
The infrastructure is in place.
All that is lacking is the political will and the sense of solidarity.
