Mr President, Mr Andor, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to extend a warm welcome to the members of the Christian Democratic Union (CDU) group from the Wesel district assembly who are in the gallery.
I would like to say to Mr Andor that we are pleased to hear him thanking us for our cooperation on the issue of agencies.
However, it is both sad and regrettable that the Council representative has once again left the Chamber, because the fact that we have made so little progress in the interinstitutional working group on agencies is primarily the fault of the Council, which is holding back from working with us to introduce improvements in this area.
Therefore, the Commission should be aware that we are on its side.
We must exert greater pressure with regard to the agencies.
We are currently looking at four agencies which reflect the fundamental problems of all the agencies, in other words, the overlap of responsibilities, for example, between the European Agency for Safety and Health (OSHA) and the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions (Eurofound) and between OSHA and the European Maritime Safety Agency (EMSA), the European Railway Agency (ERA) and the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA).
There is also a significant overlap between the European Training Foundation (ETF) and the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training (Cedefop).
Given Europe's financial problems, why is it that we cannot bring ourselves to take some fundamental measures in this area and to combine those agencies whose responsibilities are very similar, such as the agency responsible for vocational training within Europe and the agency for vocational training outside Europe?
There are a number of good arguments for doing so.
We have problems with the size of the agencies and, therefore, with their efficiency.
We have supervisory bodies with more members than the agencies have employees.
These are all things which damage the reputation of the European Union every day, because everyone who looks at the situation puts their head in their hands and says: 'You cannot seriously mean this'.
Most importantly, some agencies have not reached the critical mass to enable them to work efficiently.
Also, this House has provided too much money and too many staff members.
In some agencies, such as OSHA, we have seen a budget increase of 105% and a staff increase of 69% over 10 years.
Eurofound had a budget increase of 39% and a staff increase of 46%.
This is why I am calling urgently on my fellow Members to introduce changes during the next budget debate.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
