Mr President, Mr Barnier, ladies and gentlemen, firstly, I would like to extend my sincere thanks to everyone in the European Parliament and in the European Commission who was involved in this joint report.
Almost 20 years ago, the internal market was created by means of the Single European Act.
A great deal has undoubtedly been achieved since then, but the process is like a 100-metre race.
The last few metres are the most difficult and the most strenuous.
Therefore, the fact that Mr Barnier, in consultation with the other Commissioners, has presented us with an unbelievably coherent approach to the last few metres in the race towards the internal market is all the more welcome.
In the past, proper progress has not been made in one area or another, precisely because the strategy was not adequately checked by the various Directorates General and the Commission to ensure that it was coherent.
We must work together across all the groups in the European Parliament and with the Commission to ensure that this situation changes.
The key note of the last few metres of the internal market race, the final spurt, as I call it, is the guiding principle of the social market economy, which means taking seriously the rights of employees, companies, citizens and all those involved in the world of business and making sure that we achieve a fair balance between the various Member States and also between the differing interests of the stakeholders.
I believe that the compromises that we have reached across the different groups come very close to this principle.
Nevertheless, Mr Barnier, I would like to point out that the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has agreed internally across all the committees a list of priorities for the next measures to be taken from the package that you are proposing.
The list consists of four key points.
We want to see a final effort being made to put the fundamental freedoms in place in the internal market.
For example, a quarter of the professional qualifications in the European Union only exist in one Member State.
This shows that there is still a great deal to do and that the market is not functioning properly in terms of openness.
In addition, we want to create a cross-border, digital internal market and to establish a global perspective on the internal market.
The proposals on public procurement policy are hugely important in this respect and Parliament will be drawing up a resolution on this subject during the next session.
