Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, I have listened closely to what you have said, I have read the Annual Growth Survey, I have read the Ecofin conclusions and now I am absolutely clear about one thing: the European Union is not only experiencing an economic crisis, it is also experiencing a political crisis.
What you are recommending to us is nothing new.
Ask your staff to show you the documents from the last ten years.
The same thing can be seen in all of them, namely that public expenditure is too high, and the only mechanism for adjustment to new times relates to wages and they are always too high.
I have not seen any other recommendations.
Whether it is raining or snowing, whether we are in a crisis or a boom - it is always the same ideology, but it has nothing whatsoever to do with empirical economic reality.
Allow me to suggest something to you: send those people who write these things for you, who carry out the economic analyses in the Council and the Commission, to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs sometime.
We want to get to know your economic models.
We want to discuss with them whether they do not see that Europe is on the brink of recession.
Remove the German export rates and the German growth rates for example and then you will see what I am talking about.
I will then ask you why there is not a single word about investments - when we have lowest level of investment so far, which we ourselves can no longer afford - why there is not a single word about improvements in revenue and nothing about following the cycles or about the fact that we must finally learn to grow together or how we will get out of the crisis.
There is nothing about any of these things in your documents.
You missed the start of this year, and you will have to make a great effort to meet the expectations of citizens in Europe.
However, let me tell you something: if this is the spirit in which you intend to take a decision in March concerning the cconomic governance package and the reform of the Stability and Growth Pact, my group will be unable to be involved in this.
