Mr President, firstly, I would like to thank everyone for their wide-ranging contributions to the debate.
Wherever a direct appeal has been made to the competence of my colleague, Mrs Georgieva, we will provide you with written answers, for example, with regard to the status of talks and negotiations with Russia on the question of information and monitoring.
However, I would like to take this opportunity - since the European Solidarity Fund falls within my remit - to tell you that this Fund is an instrument that was created seven or eight years ago and that is not financed from the budget.
Whenever a disaster occurs, a very complex procedure has to be followed - firstly, there is an assessment and then there is also the codecision of the European Parliament and the Council - which can result in delays.
In the specific case of Madeira, I can tell you that within the next 14 days, we will get a signature and payment.
The delay was also caused by the fact that the Member State was very late in providing a lot of the necessary information.
This also needs to be taken into account.
At the end of the day, we also need to be able to demonstrate, and it must also be possible to verify, what the funds have actually been used for.
Nevertheless, the structure of the Solidarity Fund should also continue to be developed.
Discussions to this effect are also ongoing within the Commission.
The issue of drought assessment is - quite frankly - relatively difficult to incorporate.
The situation is different with regard to technological disasters, for example.
These issues need to be reassessed in the light of the experience we have gained in recent years.
As regards the funds provided in the area of the structural funds for example, a total of EUR 7.5 billion is available Europe-wide in the current financial period for risk prevention and corresponding environmental protection measures.
Of this, around 20% has already been allocated to specific projects.
As MEPs for an electoral district or Land, you know as well as I do that administrative problems often arise between regions and Member States because it is not clear who is responsible for what.
In practice, that often results in delays in the implementation of projects.
Overcoming these problems would be an important achievement, because it is in the interests of the people and the regions for us to actually use the money that has been made available and not to founder on account of administrative or bureaucratic problems or to allow these problems to cause delays.
Finally, I would like to say that we actually intend to put forward a legislative proposal at the end of the year for how we can take a more focused approach with regard to the way we monitor and respond to disasters throughout Europe.
I would like to thank you once again for your commitment and persistence on this matter and I would like to ask you also to continue - and I will finish by saying this - to pay such a high level of attention to implementation and to utilising the financial resources that are, in principle, available in the Member States.
