Mr President, I would first of all like to thank Mr Füle for his clear statement today and for his commitment to this issue over a long period.
I would also like to thank Mr Lajčák for the dedication that he has shown over recent months.
He is used to addressing and resolving tricky problems.
I wish both of them the best of luck.
This debate has resulted in a united front and in joint support for the efforts of both men to find a solution for Albania.
I admit that I was sceptical when this debate started.
Nothing could be worse for the development of Albania than accusations being made by one side in this House against the other that are similar to those being made by the two major political groups, the government and the opposition, in Albania.
I am very pleased that we have been able to agree on a joint approach, at least until now.
I hope that this remains the case.
Both sides, both political groups - the government and the opposition - must commit to finding a way out of this crisis.
I agree with Mr Belder.
Not long after the fall of the Hoxha regime, I went to Albania.
I was very struck by the mood there and by the enthusiasm of the young people.
However, I am very disappointed when I look at what has come out of this and what has not.
I must say that the political class in Albania is not able to satisfy the wishes and the ideas of the people.
Of course, we still have our political affinities and our personal friendship.
However, it is crucial for us now to tell both sides that they must sit down together and attempt to ensure that the local elections at least are transparent and open.
We must also call on both sides to be prepared to implement the requirements drawn up by the OSCE Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) for these elections, either by means of legislation or practical action, so that there will be genuinely fair and transparent elections in future.
I also believe that Parliament should send as many election observers as possible, despite the fact that these are local elections, because the elections could represent the beginning of a new political climate in Albania.
This is what Albania urgently needs.
I agree with everyone who has said that if nothing changes in Albania, it will find itself in an isolated position.
However, we do not want Albania to be isolated.
We want it to start out on the road towards Europe.
