Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, time is running out.
Therefore, I would like to call for an end to the soapbox speeches, the finger-pointing and the party political game-playing, regardless of where these things are taking place.
We need to do the job properly and to respond to the crisis on a step-by-step basis.
What are the causes of the crisis?
We have constantly been emphasising the fact that the causes include a failure to comply with the rules, the blocking of sanctions and the lack of progress on taking the monetary union to the next stage.
With our plans for economic governance, we are now calling for the Stability and Growth Pact to be strengthened, both in terms of preventive and corrective measures, for a majority in favour of the implementation of sanctions and for the Commission to have the right to intervene, when necessary, so that the citizens of Europe can rely on the rules being followed.
My second point is that we want the monetary union to be taken to the next stage.
This means establishing the economic union and not losing sight of the goal of political union.
I have to say that I am disappointed by the results of the trialogue.
It is not functioning properly at the moment.
However, the fact that we do not have the Council's agreement in the dialogue on economic policy and that the European Parliament and the two sides of industry are involved in this is reducing our ability to become more integrated.
We want to increase our levels of integration.
Because the Council is not able to address the current imbalance in our society and to give Parliament the opportunity of making the ministers from the Member States directly accountable to us, the results of the trialogue are being weakened.
We stand by these results.
We want to resolve the open issues and bring about integration.
If we allow our position to be weakened because of the weakness of the Council, we have not learned any lessons from the crisis.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8) of the Rules of Procedure)
