Mr President, Mr Füle, Mr Lajčák, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to join in thanking Mr Füle and Mr Lajčák for their hard work and their attempts to find a way out of this problem.
I am also pleased that the debate today has not descended into squabbles between the political groups which are in conflict with one another in Albania.
It would have been very regrettable for Parliament if this had happened and I hope that we do not reach this point.
The institutional crisis in Albania is really also a crisis in the political culture.
It is all about verbal violence that has turned into violence on the streets and resulted in four deaths.
I agree with those who say that this needs to be investigated.
It is important to find out who is really to blame.
However, this process of verbal violence becoming actual violence on the streets is something that could put Albania's accession to the European Union at risk.
As Mr Füle has already explained, this is all about making it clear to the political opponents in Albania that their job is to act in the interests of the Albanian people.
The route towards the European Union means finding a solution for this political crisis, sitting down at the same table and putting an end to the constant blame game, in which one group always blames the other and fails to recognise that it, too, can make a contribution to changing things.
That is what is needed.
The constant accusations about who started the situation and who is to blame have no place in a European state.
I hope that the opposing parties will learn from this and realise that this situation cannot go on.
If Mr Rama and his party really take part in the local elections, as he has indicated to some of us today that he will, and appoint members of the election commission, I welcome this and I hope it is a first step towards ensuring that these local elections can take place in an open and transparent form and that the results will be accepted afterwards.
The parliament fully supported the liberalisation process which has already been mentioned.
My request to Mr Füle is as follows: I hope that the Commission does not consider abandoning visa liberalisation for the citizens of Albania as a possible sanction against the two opposing parties.
I hope that will not be the case.
My other question concerns the opportunities for applying more pressure if the two parties do not come to an agreement.
One option is, as Mrs Cornelissen has already said, taking responsibility for managing the Instrument for Pre-Accession Assistance (IPA) funds away from the government and returning it to the Commission.
The other possibility would be to freeze the IPA funds.
However, this would cause suffering among the population, which cannot be our intention.
What are your plans in the event that no solution can be reached?
One last point: in the Marty report to the Council of Europe, the accusation was made that the Albanian secret service was involved or supported organ trafficking.
Do you know whether the Albanian secret service and the Albanian justice system are prepared to cooperate?
