Mr President, Mr Dalli, your colleagues in the Directorate-General for Health and Consumers and yourself have done everything right.
The same cannot be said of the German authorities.
The least that we can say is that there is chaos when it comes to communications, and that, perhaps, is putting it mildly.
The fact that Germany's health minister yesterday thought it unnecessary to travel to a Health Council in Luxembourg where the main topic on the agenda was this serious infection crisis shows that he has absolutely no idea what Europe is really about and that he is ignorant, does not recognise the problems, or is still busy with internal party political crises.
(Applause)
What is more, I must observe - and Mr Dalli said it himself - that the German authorities clearly took the view that they would do without European Union experts, patronisingly and arrogantly believing that they had no need for them.
Furthermore, the fact that it took three days for these experts to get into Germany is a scandal, and one that we must be critical of in this House.
At the same time, however, we also have to say that it is our job, in the European Union, to warn consumers when there is a dangerous foodstuff on the market.
I say to you quite clearly - if there are dangerous bacteria on a cucumber or a lettuce that do not lead to death, that may be a good thing, but for me it is not enough to justify a compensation case.
Cucumbers from Spain and other countries did have EHEC bacteria on them.
They were not the bacteria behind this outbreak, but it takes a while to find that out.
For me, that is not the point, either.
Those of you who understand the European Union and know the early warning system also know how the early warning system works.
You know that, in the early warning system, the product and also the name of the producer must be named.
You can also look that up easily in the legislation.
For me, the important question is what will happen in future?
In the future, we need to consider whether slurry use can continue.
Could there still be production methods that are unacceptable?
Who, in the European Union, actually monitors what, when and with what result this is documented, and who has what obligations in that regard?
(Applause)
