Madam President, Mr Tajani, thank you very much for your strong commitment to a European industrial policy.
I have been looking over at Mr Lange and thinking that there has been a lot of commotion about an own-initiative report.
A total of 500 amendments and 50 compromise proposals have been tabled with the aim of making industry in Europe a world leader again.
We can only achieve this by means of an integrated and sustainable policy.
We need to ensure that research and innovation are at the heart of our strategy.
Therefore, we must put in place a regulatory framework which will support innovation and sustainability at the same time.
The major challenge faced by your report was finding the right balance between environmental goals and economic competitiveness, while also avoiding protectionism.
I am looking at Mrs Grossetête, because the French always want to introduce a touch of protectionism.
At the same time, we need to support small and medium-sized businesses, promote the European patent and prevent knowledge theft, particularly with regard to China.
We also want to see fewer regulations being imposed on European industry as a result of red tape.
This means that we need to focus on reducing the amount of bureaucracy.
Mr Lange, you have succeeded in covering this quite well in your report, so I would like to thank you for your hard work.
However, this report can only represent the first step.
We need to link the concept of industrial policy, which people in many Member States find it hard to discuss and which the Germans, in particular, have always been unwilling to talk about, with the competitiveness pact, which will be presented to the Heads of State or Government over the next few weeks in order to safeguard the euro area.
If we do not manage to do this, then we will have a problem.
We must coordinate areas such as cohesion, industry, trade, research and innovation, but also social issues, the climate and the environment.
The current example of E10 in Germany demonstrates that this is not happening.
This is all about adding bioethanol to petrol.
The EU has put in place an important strategy, set itself the 20-20-20 targets, and we have said to the Member States that they must implement it.
The Member States, and Germany in particular, were part of the decision-making process and supported everything that was decided.
However, when it came to putting it into practice at home, they suddenly cut back the tax incentives and the consumers stopped cooperating.
If we fail to convince consumers, as was the case in Germany with E10, then we will not be able to implement climate policy in combination with industrial policy.
We need to have the consumers on our side.
That is the central message.
For this reason, I wish the industrial policy project every success.
