Mr President, Prime Minister Leterme, when, six months ago, the Members of this House had so many questions about the Belgian Presidency and when we had read the programme, many Members were still full of doubt.
Today, as we offer our thanks to you, but also to the permanent representation, for your outstanding work and preparation, our pleasure is therefore that much greater.
Obviously, your success was not an easy one.
The domestic political problems in Belgium have already been mentioned, and Mr Verhofstadt also had to observe that there is not necessarily efficiency at the national level in Belgium or at the European level.
Perhaps that is the key to success tomorrow, too - in other words, that the politicians who are competent here need to achieve the necessary recognition in Belgium, too.
Your success was not easy, as the external conditions, too, were not the best.
This was not least because - and I can say this, speaking on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in relation to transport - you also did not choose the easiest subjects to deal with.
It has been mentioned, and for us it was more than satisfying, that the issue of the Eurovignette, amongst other subjects, was resolved.
This issue is not just about a principle.
In my view, it is about new funding sources and safe, clean but also efficient mobility at the European level.
This is about seeing whether we will be able, tomorrow, to more vigorously readjust this area - mobility - at European level.
As someone who lives in a border area, clearly I am also pleased about the implementation of the road safety provisions.
For us, and in every border region, it is unacceptable that it is the licence plate that determines whether or not a serious offence is punished.
You have grabbed this awkward subject by the horns and taken a first step.
The passenger rights for bus transport represent an important step with the effect that Europe has now given its citizens passenger rights across all the various forms of transport.
During the volcano crisis, we observed how important it is for businesses, but also for passengers, that a European framework of this kind should be in place.
I hope that we can continue in this way.
Finally, I wish just one thing for you and for Belgium, and that is that we finally get to see the proficiency at Federal level in Belgium that you have shown at European level following the sound thinking that whoever has to make demands - as you did - must also demonstrate solutions.
