on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, politics is built on trust.
The Members of this House have been elected in a free and secret ballot by the citizens of our Member States, who rightly expect us to respect their interests, in other words the common good, in all of our speeches and decisions, rather than pursuing our own interests or the interests of third parties, whether businesses or other interest groups.
However, we are also aware that in Brussels, for example, we are surrounded by more than 10 000 professional lobbyists, who do exactly what their job description suggests, namely attempting to exert influence on Members of Parliament and the Commission.
You cannot stop this because it is perfectly normal - we live in a free and open society - however we need to make our voice heard within this structure and maintain our independence.
We have not always succeeded in this and there have been Members who have broken these rules, which is one of the main reasons why we want to improve our rules.
Transparency is one of the most important preconditions for trust and this is precisely what we are working on at present.
After extremely protracted negotiations, we have succeeded in agreeing on this transparency register with the Commission.
Admittedly, I would have preferred it if the Council had also been on board.
The Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance have long campaigned for this.
We are pleased that this has been achieved and also quite proud of the result, however I must say that we are not happy with all aspects.
We would have preferred the register to be mandatory, not just for those who work within the Commission and Parliament buildings, but also for those who ply their trade elsewhere, for example over a glass of wine in one of Brussels' many bars.
We want the register not just to apply to Parliament and the Commission, but also to the Council.
We want the financial details made available to be more precise and meaningful.
We believe that the sums of money involved should be measured in the same way, rather than the situation proposed now in which smaller operations are measured in increments of EUR 50 000, while larger ones are measured in larger increments, making it difficult to know exactly how much money is involved.
We also favour regular checks by a common secretariat.
Nonetheless, this is a good day for Europe because it brings us more transparency.
I would like to thank all those involved for what has been achieved.
