Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, what needs to be done now has already been said many times - in this regard there is broad consensus.
Our resolution is clear with regard to Tunisia, but with regard to Egypt we will have to expand it as necessary by means of oral amendments.
I think there are grounds for self-criticism.
Our executives in Brussels and in the Member States held on to the status quo for too long.
If we had taken our own principles seriously in day-to-day politics in relation to the universal nature of human rights and democracy, we would have had to speak clearly to Tunisia and Egypt about their blatant shortcomings.
We knew that the action taken against Islamists and fundamentalists was not aimed solely at these groups, but also at any criticism of the relevant government policy.
It is still not too late.
The call for democracy and human rights is neither interference in internal affairs nor can it be denounced as something that has contributed to destabilising the situation.
No dictatorship, no authoritarian regime is stable in itself.
With our current policy we have therefore simply gained time, but not stability.
Tunisia and Egypt serve as examples for others.
Everyone knows of others in the region.
Many people are afraid to mention them by name.
To my mind, Saudi Arabia is a possible candidate, for example.
This situation requires political leadership by the High Representative.
However, the 27 do not have differing interests.
If your judgment is right, do not wait until the last diplomatic sceptic has re-briefed his foreign minister.
What Senator John Kerry said the day before yesterday and Barack Obama said this evening with regard to Egypt should also have come from you.
Emancipate yourself in the interests of the Union so that the EU itself, and no one else, will formulate its policies for the future in its own neighbourhood.
Perhaps you could even go to Tunisia and Egypt next week and then report back to us the week after next in Strasbourg.
