rapporteur. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this European stability mechanism is necessary in order to provide enduring legal assurance and in order to guarantee solidarity with countries that are having problems, but also in order to secure the euro, guarantee the necessary budgetary discipline and enable a joint response to growth challenges.
In view of the time that an ordinary procedure would have taken, and also in order to avoid a referendum in some Member States, this can only be regulated by a simplified Treaty revision procedure.
However, Parliament is saying that this should not become the usual procedure and that we should actually proceed here in accordance with the ordinary Treaty revision procedure.
The original proposals stated that this should be a purely intergovernmental method in which the Commission had hardly any role and the European Parliament no role whatsoever.
Today we are able to report that, further to the negotiations that we have held with the Commission, the European Central Bank, the President of the European Council and the President of the Euro Group, in almost all matters concerning models, tests and decision bases, all aspects concerned with defining a framework and proposing a regulation for this in a Community procedure, it has so far been accepted by the European Council, by the Council of Finance Ministers, that the European Parliament can also play a part in this process and will play a role in such matters.
We were thus not too pleased initially, but I believe that if Community institutions are used and we can start using intergovernmental procedures as in the past, then when the time is right it will be easy to arrive at a clear Community policy.
Since the institutional conditions are now in place, we can propose to you that we approve this Treaty revision procedure from the European Council and set it in motion.
We therefore tabled such amendments with the unanimous approval of the Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
We need to realise that our interpretations have also been accepted and confirmed by letters from the President of the Euro Group and the Commissioner for Monetary Affairs, as well as by a letter from the President of the European Council.
I believe that this provides a reliable basis for our adopting this now in order to secure the euro, which has been a great success for Europe, and to move forward together.
