Madam President, Commissioner Lewandowski, ladies and gentlemen, this morning we are debating the need to make savings in view of the debt crisis that we are experiencing in the Member States.
Mrs Trüpel and others have quite rightly pointed out that this debt crisis affects us only indirectly, as it is not permitted for debts to be incurred at European level.
Yet how can we pursue an austerity policy in the European Union if the volume of European expenditure is only 2% of the total public expenditure of all 27 Member States?
I believe that this is not an austerity policy at all.
Instead, it is a question of symbols - symbols that are in some way passed to us by the Member States as if money that is transferred to Brussels for the European budget in effect disappears into a deep black hole.
This completely ignores the fact that the funds that go into the European budget actually go back to the Member States again.
Of course, they do not go back at a ratio of 1:1, as Europe is not a savings bank, and we naturally pursue a policy of solidarity where we support those in the European Union that are less well developed.
For example, in my state of North Rhine-Westphalia in Germany, all of the labour market instruments that are now implemented there are cofinanced by the European Social Fund.
If we remove this funding, there will be correspondingly less labour market policy.
That cannot be what Social Democrats are aiming for.
Let us consider for a moment how the Member States spend European funds.
The Court of Auditors' annual report states that there are deficiencies in the way the management and control systems for spending European funds operate.
It states that the recovery of wrongly invested funds in the Member States runs into billions of euro.
It also states that the Commission is now, thankfully, going to suspend payments in cases where European programmes are being mismanaged.
That is also happening for example in Germany and the United Kingdom.
The Council, which is not here, represents the Member States, which I urgently call on to improve their management of EU budgetary resources.
The increase in efficiency that this would make possible would allow us to considerably improve the way we spend EU funds - not by spending more money but by improving the way we spend it.
The Member States can play a part in this in order to underline their willingness to make savings.
