Madam President, Commissioner Oettinger, ladies and gentlemen, the purpose of the environmental impact assessment is, in accordance with the precautionary principle, to determine and assess the direct impact of projects on the environment, but also their indirect effects.
Excluding planned development that is clearly linked to the project in geographical or other terms can only undermine the legal situation.
The European Court of Justice ruled back in 1996 that Member States must ensure that the aim of the directive cannot be circumvented by subdividing projects.
In its 2003 report on the application and effectiveness of the EIA Directive, the Commission found that the roots of the multiple problems that were hindering the effectiveness of the EIA provisions lay not necessarily in the implementation of the directive at national level, but rather in its practical application.
One of the recommendations formulated at the time was aimed specifically at those Member States, such as Austria, that had established binding thresholds.
It was recommended that where projects might possibly have a considerable environmental impact, appropriate screening should be carried out - particularly as regards sensitive areas and the possible cumulative impact of projects.
You mentioned the screening process in your introduction; we are awaiting the results.
Austria's citizens are increasingly protesting that too little consideration is given to their concerns.
The European Court of Justice has ruled that the individual act at national level must be sufficiently detailed and provide for adequate public participation.
What is the Commission's assessment of this aspect in the Austrian act on environmental impact assessments?
Criticism of the lack of public participation is something that can be heard in nearly all the Member States.
The current revision of the EIA Directive should also include a debate on a review of the uniform procedure for public participation which is actually laid down in the directive.
