Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 50 years ago, in 1961, I began my training to be a farmer.
Ever since then, I have been guided by the common European agricultural policy.
It has become an important mainstay of the European unification process.
Since the beginning of the CAP there have been fundamental changes to its tasks.
The first task was to increase food production in order for us to be less dependent on food imports.
Sometime later, Europe was in the position of having to deal with food surpluses.
With an ever-changing situation, there were also more and more reforms.
Today, we are debating the next reform, the new approach of the CAP after 2013.
As rapporteur for the CAP reform towards 2020, I am pleased that we have achieved a cross-group compromise.
Even if not all of the individual interests could be taken into account in a compromise, the report was adopted with a large majority in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The clear vote is an unambiguous signal to the Commission of the form that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development sees the CAP taking towards 2020.
I am certain, Commissioner, that the new approach of the CAP after 2013 will also bear the stamp of the European Parliament.
The Treaty of Lisbon gives us that possibility.
My thanks today go to my fellow Members for their involvement and support, and to the committee chair Mr De Castro, the coordinators and the shadow rapporteurs for their excellent cooperation and willingness to compromise.
I would like to thank the staff of the committee secretariat, the political groups and in my own private office for their splendid cooperation.
Turning to the report now: food safety and the security of supply for half a billion people remain the main goals of the common agricultural policy, not only in the EU, but also worldwide.
The CAP is intended to be sustainable and competitive, to supply consumers with safe, high-quality food and also to promote renewable forms of energy.
The two-pillar structure of the CAP is to remain so as to create certainty of planning for our farmers for this next period.
The report clearly states - and here we support the Commissioner - that the agricultural budget should remain at the current level in the next financial period.
I cannot understand President Barroso's statement that massive cuts are to be made in the second pillar.
I believe that there will be cross-group opposition to this.
The simplification of the common agricultural policy remains an important task.
That is a core demand of our compromise.
We are also calling for a fair distribution among the Member States.
That is also necessary in order to create a level playing field in terms of competition.
We are seeking to move away from historical and individual references towards area-based premiums.
The role of small farmers is to be recognised and, on the basis of subsidiarity, the Member States are to decide themselves how to support these small farmers.
The importance of young farmers is mentioned.
From my point of view, it was important to avoid introducing a new additional payment system that would lead to extra control and sanction systems for greening.
Overall, we have found a compromise that many Members will be able to support tomorrow so that we can send out a clear signal as regards the new approach of this agricultural policy.
A large majority of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) will support this report.
