Member of the Commission. - Mr President, honourable Members, the Commission is following developments in Ukraine with regard to the former members of the government of Ukraine, Mrs Tymoshenko, Mr Lutsenko and others very closely, as Parliament and the parliamentary groups are also doing.
Since the beginning of the year, we have been making clear our concerns about the possible political motivation that lies behind these cases.
The EU has a delegation in the country and is monitoring developments carefully.
The progress report on Ukraine which we published a few days ago gives a comprehensive picture of the situation in the country last year.
Our evaluation of the situation, which has not changed, shows the need for comprehensive reform of the justice system and for measures to combat corruption.
The report emphasises that respect for the rule of law in criminal investigations and criminal prosecutions and fair, impartial and independent court proceedings must be guaranteed, in order to ensure that criminal law is not abused for political purposes.
In cases involving former members of the government, a clear distinction must be made between criminal and political responsibility.
The concerns about the excessive use of detention and custody measures and of travel restrictions also give the impression of an arbitrary approach to justice.
At the same time, a large part of Ukrainian civil society, experts throughout the world and foreign businesspeople working in Ukraine are firmly convinced that the courts in Ukraine are being subjected to strong pressure from different sides.
We are hoping that future amendments to the law on the reform of the judicial system will take into consideration the statement by the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe and sweep away these concerns.
I would like to emphasise that we attach great importance to safeguarding the rule of law in Ukraine, which is a country that we want to enter into a closer contractual relationship with on the basis of association and economic integration.
A smoothly functioning, independent and transparent justice system is essential in order for this to happen.
We do not want to take sides in any individual cases, but we expect Ukraine to bring about fundamental changes in its system in order to guarantee impartial, fair and transparent court proceedings.
We are convinced that the stability of Ukraine and the confidence of its citizens in the country's public bodies will depend on the progress made in this area.
The speed and the scope of our integration with Ukraine, and vice versa, will depend on whether Ukraine can fully guarantee its respect for human rights, the principles of democracy and the principles of the rule of law.
These principles must not be called into question in any way.
This conclusion is in line with the results of the review of the European neighbourhood policy.
The meeting of the EU-Ukraine Cooperation Council which is taking place in the course of the next few weeks will give us the opportunity to discuss numerous issues that are important for our relationship and to send clear signals to Ukraine which are the same as those that you are sending about the importance of reform in this area.
We are pleased about Ukraine's determination to conclude the negotiations on an association agreement before the end of this year.
So far, so good.
However, Ukraine must implement the necessary far-reaching reforms, in particular, of the judicial system, the electoral system and the constitution, in order to be able to enjoy the opportunities which this agreement can offer with regard to association and economic integration with the EU.
In addition, the country must make more decisive efforts to combat corruption.
Ukraine is not alone in this respect, but it must demonstrate its unconditional determination to introduce more comprehensive and more inclusive reforms if it wants to move closer to the EU.
We will continue to provide Ukraine with significant support in its efforts to bring about internal reforms.
Finally, I would like to say that we will make clear our absolute respect for proper court proceedings, without passing comment.
We are relying on being able to continue our open and transparent dialogue in Kiev and in Brussels about internal reforms in Ukraine and about the country's closer integration with the EU, both with the Ukrainian authorities and with the opposition.
Thank you very much.
