rapporteur. - Madam President, Mr De Gucht, you are absolutely right that the outside world does not understand why we cannot come to an agreement with the Council.
The Council is not even present for this debate, which I very much regret, because that is not a good omen for the completion of the second reading.
However, we must ask why a normal principle and a normal right, which are enshrined in the treaty, are not being recognised.
I believe, and Mr Brok has discussed this in detail, that this is only about giving us the opportunity to intervene.
Perhaps I can give one more example with regard to the content.
In the Commission's multiannual plan for my industrialised countries instrument (ICI), the reference document was not the amended regulation, but instead the Global Europe strategy.
This uses language which has become obsolete since the advent of the economic crisis and the resulting trade problems when it says that the objective of the multiannual plan is to promote European business and profit interests.
According to the text, the instrument is intended to resolve the problems which EU companies have in penetrating certain markets.
I can only repeat that this is not what the legislators intended the instrument to achieve and they have not put aside any taxpayers' money for this purpose.
In our view, the ICI should be a modern cooperation programme and not a weapon of conquest.
To give another example, this time in more blunt terms: For us, the countries of south-east Asia are not just junior partners, as the Commission has stated.
As part of the cooperation with central Asia, the instrument must not focus solely on EU access to the gas reserves there.
When we look at the Maghreb region and the developments in the Middle East, it is clear that we need to take a long-term, large-scale approach to cooperation.
I hope that the new regulation will be future-proof.
I also hope that this financing instrument will encourage exchanges on an equal footing between the EU and third countries and will help to create openness throughout the world and promote responsible support for sustainable development processes which are in the interests of citizens.
