on behalf of the PPE Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, it is good to see that, even at this late hour, you are taking the time to join the debate in this House on this important issue.
Ladies and gentlemen, stem cell research offers great opportunities for patients to whom we are unable to offer adequate help at the moment.
In this field, much is not yet beyond the stage of fundamental research and still uncertain, but there are still over 70 diseases for which help can be offered to the patients in question in one way or another through adult stem cells and cord blood cells.
The cord blood cells are currently predominantly used for allogeneic transplants, in other words, the cord blood can be used to help children - from whom this blood does not derive - with conditions such as leukaemia.
There are also autologous therapy techniques, however, where the child from whom the cord blood is obtained can already benefit from this today in a small number of narrowly restricted areas.
I am therefore of the opinion that policy must be oriented in such a way that, within the scope of our competences, above all, support is given to public cord blood banks.
We can encourage it; we cannot dictate it.
That said, we should also not prohibit autologous treatment and the relevant measures.
Ultimately, the parents should decide this themselves, but State policy should inform them about the chances and risks.
We need clear standards for quality and safety.
We must be constantly vigilant, in this connection, that cells are not offered that are no longer useable at the point of use due to a failure to adhere to quality and safety standards.
We need to prioritise research in this field, as it is clear that research of this kind is something very close to the patients.
Moreover, we must ensure that parents are able to decide that the cord blood should not simply be thrown away, as it may possibly be valuable in future for other children, or even for their own child.
We should organise ourselves with that in mind, within the sphere of our competences, as I say, but there is much that we can already do in this area.
