Madam President, Mrs Malmström, it is well known that people from over-populated, under-developed countries risk their lives every day because the EU, with its pseudo-humanitarian ideas, has not made it clear that the rules that apply to migrants are not the same as those that apply to refugees.
According to the Geneva Convention relating to the Status of Refugees, refugees are, as we all know, people who, owing to well-founded fear of being persecuted for reasons of race, religion or political opinion, are outside the country of their nationality.
However, this definition does not apply to the vast majority of people who flood into Europe on a daily basis.
Regardless of the situation in their home country, they just want to go somewhere in the EU - to the land that, in their mind, is flowing with milk and honey - in order to try their luck here and usually only in order to be included in our social systems.
This may perhaps make sense in their eyes, but as members of the European Parliament, we have to serve the interests of Europeans.
This certainly does not include permanently supporting millions of economic migrants who, with a lack of training and qualifications suitable for our labour market, are simply not much use to us.
It would also be extremely unfair to countries like Tunisia and Libya in particular, which are only just freeing themselves from dictatorial regimes and starting out on the road to democracy and which will need all the strength they have to rebuild their own countries.
These people must develop their own countries.
Since the end of the Ben Ali dictatorship, Tunisia has been a free country.
This situation must also be taken into consideration here in the EU in the discussions about how to deal with the mass influx of people from North Africa.
Therefore, all economic migrants should, in my view, be sent back even before they reach Europe.
They should not even be allowed to arrive in Lampedusa, and the EU agency Frontex should be given the appropriate powers by us to ensure that they do not.
