Madam President, Commissioner, Mr Wieland has already outlined the facts of the case very clearly.
I would like to add one or two political assessments, if I may.
Firstly, the fact that existing regulations or directives are examined to see how well they are working in practice or how well they are achieving their objectives and are then improved or interpreted more precisely where necessary is not an argument against European policy, but rather an argument in favour of such policy.
There will always be competition between European regulations and directives and the form that these take at local level.
The Committee on Petitions may not be a court of appeal, but in my own understanding of what we are doing in the Committee - in other words, what I understand as my role as a member of the Committee on Petitions - I am rather proud that this petition, in which we saw that things were being interpreted differently at local level than was our intention at European level, together with the opinion of the Committee on Petitions, ultimately resulted in the law being changed in a Member State.
I consider that to be a great success, and a success of European policy.
The general problem as I see it is the question that I will now put to the Commissioner.
Many citizens are concerned about how European law on the environment is being implemented in the Member States.
There are many petitions on this.
Many of these are concerned with cross-border matters, but there are also many concerning circumstances in the Member States.
Time and again, we face the problem that when we make enquiries to the Commission while matters are in progress, we get the answer: 'We assume that Member State X is implementing and applying the existing directives and regulations of the European Union appropriately.
We see no need to intervene'.
We need an instrument that we can use to enter into a serious dialogue with the Member States while matters are in progress if there are indications that something is going wrong, so that we do not end up in the same situation as in this case.
Things did not go optimally, but it is done now and we have a solution for the future - but not, unfortunately, for the past.
