Mr President, Mrs Győri, Mr De Gucht, I would first of all like to thank the shadow rapporteurs very much for working together so constructively.
Now that we have finally agreed on the formal aspects of the transitional regulation, I would like to make use of this debate to explain briefly some of the requirements for the future regulation.
The new version of the regulation should have the following basic objectives: 1.
To increase the efficiency of the system; 2.
To develop rules that will provide for a better regulated reform process in which the involvement of the beneficiaries is guaranteed; 3.
To ensure that the regulation gives due weight to the task of democratic control which Parliament is required to perform.
This includes proposals from the Committee on Development.
The new Generalised System of Preferences (GSP) should be a clearer and more transparent system.
I would like to make three points in this respect and the first concerns the rules of origin.
The rules of origin and the administrative procedures that accompany them are one of the main reasons why the trade preferences granted by the GSP are being underused, particularly by the least developed countries.
In the current version of the system, the rules of origin often prevent preferences that exist on paper from having a positive impact.
I have just come back from the Parliamentary Conference on the World Trade Organisation (WTO) in Geneva and this problem was very high up on the list of issues discussed there.
In my opinion, the EU should campaign within the WTO for the preference system to be given priority as part of its work on harmonising the rules of origin.
My second point concerns the partner countries.
Here I feel that it is particularly important for us to develop more straightforward criteria.
The Gini coefficient is a good example of this type of criterion.
As already mentioned, we need to be more flexible in order to be able to respond more effectively.
My third point is about technical assistance.
Preferences alone are not enough.
We need to increase the impact of the system and improve the rate of utilisation of the GSP by providing technical assistance.
This is all about a general improvement of the preference system as a whole.
I would like to thank everyone involved once again for their constructive approach.
I will be happy to continue working with the Commission on the basis of today's assurances.
