Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by expressing my gratitude for the way in which we have been able to work together so constructively.
We have reached a good compromise today from an environmental and an economic perspective.
Even though we could, in my opinion, have gone further with regard to the limit, the legislation that we are adopting today is still the strictest in the world for light commercial vehicles.
We must not forget that.
Mrs Hedegaard has already said that, outside the Emissions Trading System, these small sector-specific pieces of legislation which we are introducing are very important in allowing us to achieve the goals that we have set ourselves.
If vehicles use less fuel, this brings added value not only for the climate but also for air quality.
With a limit of 147 grams, which is the equivalent of 5.6 litres of diesel, vehicles will produce less pollution.
This means that the air quality in our cities will improve.
We are taking an important step forward today.
My group is voting in favour of this compromise package because it includes an important point which states that we must evaluate in 2014 at the latest whether the targets that we are adopting today have been met or exceeded and whether we need to make adjustments in this area.
This was a fundamental requirement for our group.
I have had long discussions with my colleague, Mr Pirillo, about the nature of this compromise and that was one of the basic prerequisites of the compromise package.
Some comments have already been made about the first reading.
We should make sure in future that we reach fewer first-reading agreements.
In this case, it is acceptable because the negotiations ultimately only concerned 2 grams.
We did not need to introduce that into the second reading.
However, if we adopt everything during the first reading, Parliament will be depriving itself of its rights.
There is one further point I would like to mention and that is the test cycle.
It will be very important for us to have a standardised test cycle in future which will hopefully come into force throughout the world at some point and which will represent reality.
Our current test cycles are not realistic and we need to make improvements in this area.
International negotiations are under way and I hope that they can be brought to successful conclusion, because this will mean that the legislation will reflect the actual driving cycles.
I would like to thank everyone concerned once again.
Today is a good day for the European Union's climate and environmental policy.
