Mr President, Commissioner, the Dual-Use Regulation under debate provides for the acquisition of general authorisations for non-critical items and technologies that are exported to third countries and fulfil a dual purpose.
However, these general authorisations are also intended to enable European exporters and small and medium-sized enterprises to plan reliably.
This regulation is intended to represent a relaxation for our European exporters in order to spare them time-consuming individual authorisation procedures and, above all, also to enhance their competitiveness.
I therefore think that detailed registration procedures and the additional requirements imposed on exporters will not result in a relaxation, but rather additional expenditure.
There is no doubt that we must ensure that exports that fulfil dual purposes are also used in a safe manner and cannot present a danger, but, in any case, we also have to question the excessive and unnecessary additional expenditure.
I could give the example of a medium-sized enterprise in the field of mechanical engineering that offers a 24-hour service for repairing machines and supplying machine parts.
These services must also continue to be possible despite more stringent export provisions.
The same applies in the area of cyber attacks and the involvement of stakeholders.
If we do not have clear criteria and framework conditions for these areas, and if the wordings are imprecise, then I have to question the additional expenditure and the generalisation here too.
Although it is extremely important to involve stakeholders in decision-making processes, this must always be done with a view to the practical and sensible implementation of the decisions.
Here, too, there is no question that transparency and security are essential.
Finally, I would like to stress once again that this regulation is intended to contribute to a facilitation of the procedure and a reduction in bureaucracy.
Against the background of the safe use of products and technologies, it is intended to strengthen our European economy and simplify the associated administration.
