on behalf of the ALDE Group. - Madam President, I agree that the work of the rapporteur and our fellow Members has certainly borne fruit.
It is evident that money is not everything, but that nothing seems to work without money.
The same applies when it comes to making savings; everyone wants to hold onto what they have and is unwilling to give anything away that might have the potential to lead to more savings.
In this context, the discussion of whether the inflation rate is 2.3%, 2.5% or 2.7% is, in the final analysis, mere shadow-boxing.
Our task is to look and see where we can genuinely save money.
The decisive issue here - and it is important for the European Parliament's Secretariat to take this to heart - is that the Committee on Budgets should be provided with all the key documents to enable it to see where savings can be made to the European Parliament's budget, rather than simply receiving the Secretary-General's savings proposals for it to rubber stamp.
The European Parliament's budget consists of more than just these amendments.
As Mr Fernandes has pointed out, we have identified savings of EUR 49 million.
What he did not reveal, however, is that two thirds of these savings have simply been transferred to the 2013 or 2012 financial year, so that we will have to decide what to do about this money next year.
In relation to the original savings, I am pleased to see that the so-called smaller groups, including the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe, have managed to come together to convince the two larger groups of the need for these savings in the area of information technology, in simple matters like cleaning or payments to political parties and foundations, in other words that we have an understanding in theory at least of where money can be saved.
The newly opened debate on the EUR 100 million to be spent on our youth is naturally something that no one could oppose.
On the other hand, we must be careful not to get side-tracked because this issue has nothing to do with this report.
It needs to be dealt with in other reports.
We cannot let ourselves be diverted from other important topics.
Nonetheless, we have made a good start and it is evident that we do not necessarily need more money, but rather greater discipline in how we spend it.
I believe that we can expect a fruitful cooperation with all groups.
