Madam President, firstly, I would like to welcome the small number of men who have joined the small number of women in this plenary.
Naturally, I am in favour of equal treatment and equal opportunities for women and men.
I have been successfully campaigning for this at national and European level for over 50 years.
Unfortunately, the report on the equality of women and men in the EU 2010 once again contains exaggerated demands that are counterproductive for women in the final analysis.
I do not have the time to explain them all here.
It is through no fault of the rapporteur that the large number of amendments have made the report quite hard to digest.
In relation to the controversial question of whether the EU should impose a women's quota in listed companies, I must warn against praising Norway as a shining example of such a measure.
You may ask why.
Since the introduction of the women's quota between 2003 and 2009 the number of companies quoted on the stock market has decreased from 554 to 362.
One in three companies gave the introduction of the women's quota as the reason it withdrew from the stock market.
In Norway, 70 women, known as 'golden skirts', occupy about 300 seats on management boards.
This is warped, but very interesting.
Speaking for myself, I might be attracted to the career of a 'golden skirt' as I have not been a member of a single management board so far.
The Commission needs to think carefully and weigh up the consequences before reacting too hastily to this problem.
I also regret that this report recommends in the same breath that women should be allowed easy access to contraception and abortion.
In other words, abortion is equated with contraception as a simple means of birth control.
This is an insult to women.
I cannot agree to this, quite apart from the fact that the EU has no powers in this area - subsidiarité oblige!
I regret the fact that some female Members consistently mix these two issues together.
That is not necessary.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
