Mr President, let us be honest, the state of no war, because we cannot talk of peace in the Middle East, has at least allowed the dictators and authoritarian regimes to keep their own people under control and conclude a non-aggression pact with Israel, and has allowed Israel to do so as well.
As we have seen, such props and such pillars are very fragile and can suddenly collapse.
Now they have collapsed.
I am pleased that Israel has not intervened in internal Arab developments.
However, non-intervention is not enough.
As Mr Pöttering said, we must seize the opportunity; that is, Israel must seize the opportunity to conclude a lasting peace with democratic states; a peace that does not rest on the shoulders of a few dictators, but is genuinely based on the will of the people to make peace.
Here, the development of settlements is not only a thorn in the flesh, as it always has been, but also an obstacle.
What is more, when the deputy Foreign Minister, who has already been quoted here, says, in the talks we had in Brussels, that we are not taking any new areas away from the Palestinians in any case, that is hair-splitting and cynical to boot.
Settlement development must be stopped.
I am very sad that the Americans have used their veto here, since they have thereby proved that they have no genuine interest in the peace process.
Now, briefly about the elections, about which questions have already been asked.
I hope that we recognise the elections.
We must recognise the elections and the outcome of the elections as a democratic step.
That does not mean that we must recognise any policy that is implemented as a result of the elections.
We must not, however, repeat the mistake of deciding who is the good winner and who is the bad winner of the elections.
We must instead recognise the democratic development.
Finally again, since we are all of one mind on this: I hope that you will strengthen your efforts to free Mr Shalit, so that this problem can finally be resolved.
For just as settlement development is an obstacle to really meaningful dialogue, so is the imprisonment of Mr Shalit an obstacle, as much as ever.
I hope that we can approach both problems in such a way that we can finally arrive at sensible, constructive peace talks in the Middle East.
