on behalf of the GUE/NGL Group. - Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council, President of the Commission, my Group finds the results of the Council meeting inadequate.
Firstly, let us consider economic policy.
We have articulated our thoughts on the agreed guidelines in the area of economic policy in a hearing held last week.
What we need is to overcome the neo-liberal practice of profit and competition fixing, evident in terms such as 'flexicurity', adjustment of retirement age, and so on.
We believe that there is a need for democratically legitimised, controlled economic policy management that will prevent tax, wage and environmental dumping practices through appropriate common minimum standards that will provide effective regulation for the financial markets and prohibit the privatisation of profits, while at the same time passing on the risks to the public at large.
My second point relates to our southern neighbourhood and Libya in particular.
The EU Member States have become involved in a macabre situation in North Africa, particularly in Libya.
We have already heard some criticism here.
I would just like to emphasise one point: the dictator Gaddafi is using weapons purchased from us against the demonstrators and rebels.
He is under fire from NATO troops apparently in order to protect those fighting for freedom and democracy, who are also using European and US weaponry.
I would like to know the point of the existing code of honour in relation to arms dealing if such a situation can exist?
Where is the support for freedom, human rights and the fight against social injustice in specific cases such as Lampedusa, where hundreds of refugees are arriving from North Africa every day?
I fear that the newly cobbled together neighbourhood concept is more about European interests than an appropriate response to the needs of the partner countries.
My third point relates to Japan.
We still have time to discuss Japan this afternoon and tomorrow.
Here too we fail to recognise a coherent European approach, at least as far as safety controls, the so-called stress tests, are concerned.
I am not surprised that our citizens are asking with justified scepticism what exactly the European Union's position is on this issue.
