Madam President, firstly, I would like to apologise for the fact that Members are currently leaving the Chamber.
However, a vote is taking place in the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy at the same time as this debate and we have not yet invented a way of dividing people in two.
Mr Hökmark has found a good compromise here.
However, with regard to this matter, we must always take into account the performance level that we want to see in the future, on the one hand, for the first generation network and, on the other, for the cable operators and everyone else with an interest in the spectrum, particularly the blue light organisations.
This performance level must be defined.
The most important aspect with regard to this data is the quantity of data.
The next most important aspect is the time it takes for it to be transmitted, the strength with which it is transmitted in order also to enable coexistence here, and, finally, the priorities that are established by means of the software.
For the future, we need a detailed report in this regard in order to significantly increase the speed of the GSM first generation network.
Cable network operators already achieve very high speeds of up to 100 megabits/s, which is very respectable and can be increased further in future.
However, we have major problems when it comes to the price level, particularly with regard to data roaming.
In some Member States, it is currently possible to buy one gigabyte for less than EUR 1.
I have just looked at my mobile phone to see how much it costs me.
At home, one gigabyte costs me EUR 1.
When I am here, one gigabyte costs me EUR 9 900, and when I travel to another Member State, it can cost EUR 14 900.
We urgently need to take action in this regard.
I would ask you, Commissioner, to ensure that this decision takes account not only of performance range and performance level, but that, above all, we also establish a common European market with regard to price level that enables people to use data services even when they are not in their own Member State.
We have urgent priorities to address in this regard.
