Mr President, thank you for your questions.
Where research infrastructure is concerned, small and medium-sized enterprises already receive considerable resources from the European Regional Development Fund, particularly in the area of encouraging innovation - where they receive innovation subsidies into the high tens of billions of euro.
In the period 2000-2006, more than 30 000 enterprises in total concentrated on this area in a focused manner.
We are giving consideration to the fact that substantial importance should also be attached to the research infrastructure, particularly in the future - not just in the area of the economy, but also in the area of basic research.
It is possible that even in the current period we will subsidise a research infrastructure project that is also included in the ESFRI - the European Strategy Forum on Research Infrastructures - Road map with such funds for the first time, because investigations into this project have revealed that it has a very sustained impact in a region beyond that of the project itself in that jobs will be created, not just research jobs, but also jobs in enterprises that supply these, since even basic research infrastructure needs services and supplies.
In other words, it could be a real hub in a particular area in a region - in this case, a region of Hungary.
That should also send out a signal for the coming programming period, perhaps to universities, which, in the final event, also have concrete effects.
Already today, nearly a third of university research activities are in the area of applied research, which, in the end, benefits the economy and creates lasting jobs.
If I may turn to the honourable lady's question, within the framework of the European Social Fund, it is generally employed or temporarily unemployed workers who receive assistance with training, in order to put them in a position in which their prospects on the jobs market are improved.
This may be within the enterprise in which they are employed or, if they are not employed, it may be in order to improve their skills or simply to make them better qualified generally for other possible types of employment.
I can give you an example - because perhaps that is what you were hinting at and because it has come in for a lot of criticism - and that is that McDonald's workers, for example, have been offered further training.
A clear distinction must be made here: these were further training measures for McDonald's workers in order to make them better qualified on the jobs market and in the world of work.
As you know - it has, after all, been somewhat criticised - jobs at McDonald's, often nicknamed 'McJobs', are generally part-time jobs that may require no great qualifications; jobs that are often done by students.
It is a matter of upskilling these people.
Where in-house further qualification is concerned, such as in this project, McDonald's - to take an example - bore all the costs itself.
In other words, we are trying and endeavouring to ensure that the further training that workers receive concentrates on their own personal qualifications.
In view of this, I believe that it should make no difference where these people are employed; rather, our objective must be to improve further the quality of each person's skills in order to make people more fit for an increasingly mobile labour market, thereby avoiding unemployment wherever possible.
Subject: European Progress Microfinance Facility
Implementation of the European Progress Microfinance Facility (EPMF) seems to be slower than expected, a situation which could endanger its purpose and which is manifestly at odds with the speed of its adoption in March 2010.
How does the Commission intend to speed up the process and make sure that the EPMF reaches the most vulnerable people while also reflecting the right geographical balance?
What does the Commission plan to do in order to get the Member States to finance mentoring and training programmes, and also to ensure that interest payments are subsidised from European Social Fund resources, as agreed?
How will the Commission ensure that information about the EPMF reaches the target audiences?
