Mr President, the resettlement programme is something that we worked extremely intensively on, investing a lot of energy, across all group divides and allegiances.
We were unanimous in wanting to send out a clear signal on this matter.
We also made it our top priority simply because it is such an important issue: people's lives are at stake.
Nonetheless, the situation and ongoing developments in North Africa mean that we are called on once again to produce results in double-quick time.
We have already lost one year.
We have made the best use of the time available to provoke a civil and social debate because, in the final analysis, we also need the support of the Member States, regional authorities and the local population if such a programme is to become established in the new Member States, too.
This discussion and the social consensus that has gradually resulted cannot be abandoned just because the Council and other key players are unable to agree and have reached an impasse.
The issue is too important.
We have instigated this debate and, true to our liberal credentials, our aim is to make this matter a genuine priority.
I believe that we have agreement across all the groups in Parliament.
We have signalled our position and now await a clear course to be set by the Council so that the issue will be placed on the agenda and that the other Member States that have so far not played an active role will now be encouraged to get involved.
The feedback that we have received during our discussions indicates that these Member States are willing to come on board.
For this reason, the main concern on the part of the Group of the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe - although I believe I can speak for all the groups involved because the level of cooperation was really excellent - is that this matter should be given priority and the debate that we have engendered on a broad social level should be encouraged, rather than jeopardised by continuously the matter being continuously put on the long finger.
