Mr President, Mr Oettinger, you already know that I do not trust your stress tests.
I would like to explain to you briefly why this is the case.
I believe that it is not a good thing for the national authorities and the supervisory bodies to be given responsibility for defining the criteria for the test and evaluating the results.
Until now, they have been solely responsible for supervising and testing the nuclear power plants in the European Union.
The members of these bodies will be part of the familiar old boys' network who are happy to certify that each others' nuclear power stations were safe, are safe and will continue to be safe.
Do you really believe that the national regulatory authorities will suddenly realise that they have been doing a bad job up until now and have been too tolerant?
I do not believe that, Mr Oettinger, and you have not yet explained to me how you plan to guarantee that this whole supervisory system will suddenly become independent.
The voluntary nature of the stress tests is further proof that we cannot take them as seriously as we would like to.
However, you still have time to change your plans and provide us with a guarantee that independent experts will be given access to the plants.
You can guarantee that everything will be tested and that we will not just see reports on paper from a system which I have rightly described as an old boys' network, because those people involved have all known each other and been friends for decades and have always accepted the highest levels of risk.
I would like to explain to you that we in the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance expect the stress tests to be designed in such a way that they show which nuclear power plants really are no longer acceptable and which should be disconnected from the grid first.
If the stress tests are genuinely to bring about a change of direction in Europe, we see them as the basis for an exit timetable which will start now and, if everything goes well in Europe, could come to an end in around 2025.
I would like to ask you to do one specific thing, Mr Oettinger.
Over the last few days, you have given a number of interviews and have explained in Germany, for example, that you know which nuclear power plants will not pass these stress tests and that you are certain about some of them.
Please make the names of these power plants public.
For example, if one of them is Fessenheim, a power station which, as the French supervisory body has said, is not adequately protected against high water or earthquakes, then you should publicise the names of the sites which represent a risk.
This would increase public confidence in your policies.
(Applause)
