Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to express my very sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Stihler, who has done some very important work in this highly technical area.
It is not only a technical report that we have before us; it is also a highly political report - a report in which high political standards also had to be respected.
It was necessary to balance the various interests of industry, safety and the protection of workers, and, in the view of the European Parliament and the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament, the rapporteur has succeeded admirably in doing this.
It was essential to respect the interests of the industry and to see where their problems are in this area of construction products.
It was also important to find a balance between the large and the small and medium-sized enterprises.
Our view was that the Commission was right to suggest that small enterprises need fewer rules.
However, that does not mean - and this is where the Commission's proposal was improved upon - that a lower level of safety should be permitted.
The level of the standards must also be genuinely high, something that we managed to achieve in this area.
Of course, it is also important to place safety at the forefront.
This is of particular importance for consumers because, where a construction product is manufactured and installed, it must be ensured that the user of the product is ultimately just as safe as those who worked with it beforehand.
The third point that was particularly important to us, as Social Democrats, was improving worker protection and the fact that this has also been explicitly incorporated once again.
Mrs Stihler also attached a great deal of importance to this in her remarks.
After all, these construction products often involve work with hazardous substances and materials.
It is extremely important to ensure that the highest possible level of protection is indeed achieved in this area.
This level of protection will also need to be considered later - and that is something that we probably still need to work on, Mr Tajani - in connection with the disposal of these products once they are no longer needed.
I would like to thank the rapporteur most sincerely once again for her truly splendid work.
