Madam President, firstly, I would like to congratulate Mr Oettinger.
He is now the third commissioner who is responsible for the area of nuclear safety, waste and decommissioning.
Parliament has always supported the Commission and has always called for the authority in this area to be moved to a European level.
Unfortunately, the Council's nuclear working group did not believe that these were issues which had a place on the agenda.
I am proud of the fact that we are slowly succeeding in having serious discussions with one another on these subjects and that the Council is making a genuine effort to highlight the European added value and, on the other hand, to adhere to the principle of subsidiarity.
However, I believe this is also simply about realising what we can achieve in this highly sensitive area in the Eighth Framework Programme for Research.
This is why the scientific side and the question of what we assume will come from harmonisation in future and of whether we want to see mutual recognition are particularly important in this area.
I believe that we should also think about the subjects that we want to focus on in the immediate future.
I remember well that Mrs Palacio once said that the issue would only appear on the agenda again when the next nuclear disaster happened.
Unfortunately, she was right.
It is rather late to be considering this, but it is high time that we thought about the measures that need to be taken at a European level.
However, that is not enough.
Europe must play a pioneering role, in particular in the international arena.
We should be establishing standards in this area together with the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA).
We need standards which quite simply guarantee the highest possible level of safety and which ultimately give us the opportunity to avoid putting the population at risk as far as possible.
Mr Oettinger, I would like to congratulate you.
You have taken the right approach and we can be sure that Parliament and the Commission will be highly successful.
