on behalf of the Verts/ALE Group. - Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in our opinion, the report takes us clearly in the right direction.
European agricultural policy needs to be fairer, and it needs to be fairer to the environment.
I believe that we have achieved these objectives with the report.
At the end of the day, European agricultural policy must meet our objectives on climate and diversity.
This, too, is incorporated into the report.
European agricultural policy needs to deliver environmental services.
Then taxpayers will be prepared to pay for it.
We need a fair distribution between farms, but also between the Member States, and we need to practise a fair trade policy towards less developed countries.
This, too, is in the report.
Working through nearly 1 300 amendments has been a laborious process, but in the long term we have achieved our aim of reaching a major common compromise with clearly defined objectives.
Parliament has proved itself capable of making such policy.
Many points could have been worded more clearly in our view, such as the terms for payments under the first pillar - crop rotation, protection of meadow land - but fine, it is now down to the Commission to flesh out the final arrangements.
It is also important that degressivity is included.
Large farms need to deliver more when it comes to jobs and the environment.
This was supported by a large majority in committee.
It is also important that the role of farmers in trade is enhanced, and it is also important that the matter of the protein deficit is addressed.
In the long term we cannot afford to import from other countries protein crops equivalent to 30 million hectares of feed area.
It is high time that we made a start on this.
We are all agreed that a strong second pillar is important.
Rural development, environmental measures and measures for less-favoured regions - there must be a clear emphasis on these.
If Mr Barroso wishes to axe this point he will face huge opposition from Parliament.
It is precisely here that the opportunities for rural development lie, and we cannot turn our backs on the less-favoured regions.
