Madam President, Baroness Ashton, I would ask you to be more courageous.
Go to Cairo before the Council of Foreign Ministers.
Speak with the government representatives and with the opposition there.
Come back to Brussels and tell your colleagues what you have seen and heard.
Set the agenda and do not listen to 27 different opinions, with which it is then very difficult to actually do anything.
When Mr Mingarelli goes to Tunisia - something that I view very positively - inform us so that we are aware and so that the public is aware that Europe has a presence there.
I first found out that the American was there and only then did I hear that Mr Mingarelli was also there.
You are the foreign minister for Europe and I would earnestly advise you, on the one hand, to be our foreign minister.
On the other hand, as foreign minister for Europe, you must not jump through every hoop that people put in front of you.
Comparisons have been made here today with 1989, and I think that is right.
I believe that Tahrir Square in Cairo in 2011 is equivalent to Alexanderplatz in Berlin in 1989.
A revolution is taking place there.
However, if we recall the revolution of 1989 for a moment we will remember that we had the same dilemma then.
We wanted freedom, stability and democracy, and we overlook the fact that this process, the transition from a stable dictatorship to a democracy, is rarely peaceful, orderly and stable.
From this point of view, diplomacy, organisation and caution also have their place.
That should not distract us from the fact that we are extremely pleased about this revolution.
It is a revolution against the dictatorship and for freedom.
I do believe that Europe can dictate the setup in these countries.
However, our joy needs to be apparent, but one thing is also clear, and that is that, even with limited influence, it will certainly not be possible to build a state with Mr Mubarek.
With the violence today in Tahrir Square, the last vestige of legitimacy for this ruler in Egypt has been lost.
