Madam President, I have a lot of sympathy with the position of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) in other areas.
We work closely together on economic issues.
However, in this particular case, we must make it clear that we should not play party politics here.
Above all, we must emphasise that it is scandalous to criticise the constitution of a Member State in this forum, whichever Member State that may be.
There are Member States, and here I am looking at Mr Busuttil, among others, since he brought up the issue so forcefully, who seek the support of the European Union when they experience problems; it is an expression of European solidarity that we should provide help when, for example, Malta experiences a problem with refugees.
However, solidarity must be based on shared values, and all of the groups within this House are responsible for sustaining such values.
Although the Charter of Fundamental Rights may only be binding on European legislation and its implementation, Articles 2, 6 and 7 of the Treaties are binding on all Member States.
A two-thirds majority was cemented into the Hungarian constitution, so that, realistically speaking, any future Hungarian Government will be unable to amend any of the country's laws.
This goes against the principle of parliamentary democracy.
This limiting of the powers of the constitutional court is something quite unique and threatens the principle of the separation of powers.
We cannot discount the possibility that there is a breach of international law in relation to criminal proceedings.
There is so much I could say, but I certainly wish to state the following: it is not just the right of the EU and the European Commission to make their voice heard in this case; it is also their duty.
In the past - even long before the European Union existed - Europe too often held back on criticising abuses in Member States.
My country, along with others, has experience of this.
When the politicians remain silent, sooner or later the people will make themselves heard and then we need to ask ourselves whether it is too late and whether we have failed.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under Rule 149(8))
