Madam President, Commissioner, as Parliament's rapporteur for the own-initiative report on the role of women in agriculture and rural areas, it was my aim to conduct a broad public debate in order to give more visibility and weight to the important multi-functional role of women in rural areas.
It remains a key task of European rural policy to achieve equivalent living conditions in all regions, preventing the one-sided development of heavily populated urban areas, so that, even in rural areas, people can look forward to staying put and making a successful life.
The focus of the common agricultural policy (CAP) over recent decades has been on the positive economic development of agriculture and rural areas.
In future, it will be geared increasingly to shaping and furthering future-oriented rural areas.
This will require fresh efforts and new strategies by all concerned.
It will be more necessary than ever to take account of the needs of women in rural areas and to utilise their potential.
Experience shows that, in rural areas most particularly, quality of life and economic strength are linked to the presence of women and their involvement in a wide range of activities.
It has become apparent in recent years that significant advances for rural societies generally result from support for women and women's projects.
Findings to that effect have been gleaned from experience with such support under the second pillar of the CAP and various other EU funding schemes in all regions of Europe.
However, women also have an essential role to play in agriculture.
This is a sector where women have made a substantial contribution in recent years to business diversification and adjustment to the market, thereby advancing the practical outworking of the sector's multi-functionality.
In addition to their own food production, agricultural businesses also offer innovative products and services.
The types of economic potential represented here can be utilised to an even greater extent.
In this context, there are opportunities to provide practical support measures for women in agriculture.
Greater account must be taken of the wide range of vocational skills, interests and achievements of women.
To that end, we call, in particular, for women to have a full share in the resources that underpin farming as a way of life and a type of business.
Women farmers want a share in rights and duties that is commensurate with their co-responsibility for the farm business, including through the appropriate representation of interests on agricultural bodies.
Ensuring adequate social cover for all women who work in agriculture is essential.
Following an intensive dialogue, we succeeded, in our vote in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, in adopting the report with only one vote against.
No amendments have been tabled for tomorrow's vote in plenary.
That indicates to me that we have found a very good compromise that is acceptable to all groups.
A unanimous vote would give the report the necessary weight for it - I hope - to receive sufficient consideration in the Commission and the Council.
I would like to thank my fellow Members, especially the shadow rapporteurs, for their truly excellent cooperation.
The important role of women in agriculture and rural areas must not be overlooked in the forthcoming debate on the future of the CAP post 2013.
I am confident that our report will provide an important basis for this essential debate and that it will also make a positive contribution to the forthcoming financial debate.
