Madam President, Mr Kallas, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have concluded a large number of air service agreements, which have always involved summarising the old national agreements under a European umbrella.
Now things are starting to change with regard to the involvement of the European Union and I think this is very important.
The agreement with Vietnam largely follows the old model that we have always used.
However, the agreement with Canada is more ambitious, which I welcome.
The cooperation in the field of the environment and social issues is positive, but in my opinion it could be extended even further.
The situation concerning the agreement with the USA is quite different.
In this case, I believe that we have given in far too early.
Market access is a question of fairness and in this agreement the regulations are not fair.
Nevertheless, we have climbed down.
To a large extent there has been a failure to cover certain aspects of social conditions.
Much too little has been done in this area.
We must ensure that social dumping does not take place here, because this is also a safety issue when it comes to airlines.
We finally need to make this clear.
My second point is that there are major problems with regard to environmental issues.
The USA is starting to exert significant pressure to have night flight restrictions, which are in place to protect local residents, relaxed or lifted.
The pressure in this area is enormous and I am afraid that we will have to give in.
We must make it quite clear that this would be a disaster for everyone who lives near an airport.
On the safety question, the USA is gradually tightening the screw and unfortunately the implementation in the European Union is going unchallenged.
This is a mistake and I want to be very clear on this.
Finally, I would like to mention code-sharing, which is being presented as a major achievement.
I would like to say just one thing.
This will ultimately restrict passengers' choices.
I will not be able to choose which airline I fly with and I may find myself confronted with a completely different airline when I reach the gate.
The concept of competition in the airline industry is fictitious and it is becoming even more so when it comes to the position of passengers.
