Mr President, when Mr Leinen and I come back to political positions of the last millennium, we are mostly in agreement, and that is also the case with this report.
This is something good, sensible and important.
After all, statistics can be sexy, particularly at a time when the European Union has a huge credibility problem where European citizens are concerned.
I would say that that is largely unjustified if we look at the major issues and not at the other matters on which Mr Leinen and I are divided.
I think it is very good to be able to stand here, not only as a non-attached Member, but as someone who, with this opinion on behalf of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs - it was not a shadow report, but a supplementary opinion that is even more comprehensive than that of the lead committee, the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Food Safety - is able to represent these positions that we have set out with a vote of 37 to 0.
In specific terms, this means that we want - as I put it - to move towards a system of European sustainability statistics, nicely abbreviated to ESS.
That would give us something to work with, particularly where young people are concerned and those who know that we will need new agreements on common goals in the future in order to be able to bring Europe out of the shadows and to the forefront in this brutal competition with the United States, China and many other powers.
This clearly also means - as Mr Leinen has already mentioned - that we urgently need more modules.
In this regard, we can look back to the 1970s and 1980s, when all of this had already been worked out.
It would be very nice if the Commission could make swifter progress in this regard.
I think it is very good that there has been movement in Eurostat with regard to the collection of data, even if it is under difficult circumstances in relation to Greece.
With a vote of 37 to 0 to 0, we are of the opinion that the Commission clearly needs more money in this area for an ESS, for this system of European sustainability statistics.
However, we can achieve that by reallocating funds: use the enlargement dividends at last.
Take the officials who were so busy with the enlargement phase for the large states and put them where we so urgently need them, where they can help with the functioning of a European project.
