Madam President, Baroness Ashton, ladies and gentlemen, you have our support for the ongoing development of the European External Action Service (EEAS) and for ensuring that it functions effectively, Baroness Ashton.
This applies, in particular, to the process of establishing the representations, where considerable improvement is needed as a result of the funds and the limited time available.
In addition, it is a major problem that every European foreign minister currently feels the need to run once round Tahrir Square carrying his or her national flag.
However, despite this behaviour, we must ensure that our common strategy is made clear.
It is our job and also your job to achieve this.
We must make use of the positions, in actual fact, there are three of them, which have been brought together in the Treaty of Lisbon and which you represent, not to find and then to implement the lowest common denominator among the Member States, but instead to take over political leadership, so that the common position is given a greater role and is so convincing that we can carry the other countries along with us.
This is extremely important if we really want to make progress in this area.
Earlier, you agreed with Mr Gualtieri about pooling and sharing.
I would like to thank him, Mrs Muñiz De Urquiza and Mr Albertini.
However, we need a three-pronged approach involving leading, pooling and sharing.
Those are the three things that we should have.
There are many individual points which we could raise here and which require tasks to be shared.
What progress is being made in Ukraine?
Will war break out between Azerbaijan and Armenia at the end of the summer?
There are signs that this will be the case.
Of course, there are also the major questions relating to the Arab world, which many of my fellow Members have referred to.
How should we react to events such as the flotilla, which, in my opinion, is a provocative act?
How should we deal with President Assad?
How can we ensure that the People's Mujahedin in Iran does not receive any support, because I am opposed to supporting it, but, at the same time, guarantee that Camp Ashraf is not attacked again and its occupants killed?
We need to take a sensible approach in order to identify a common position.
We will help you to establish the European External Action Service (EEAS).
However, we also expect the type of leadership which will allow for policy making at a higher level and which will convince the Member States, despite the complex requirement for unanimity.
This will only be possible with convincing leadership.
We will continue to wait for the results that follow from the development of the EEAS.
