Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, representatives of our Arctic neighbours who are following this debate, in my capacity as rapporteur, I am particularly pleased to be able to present to you today the result of over a year's work, carried out in cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, other colleagues in the EU Arctic Forum, and numerous experts and representatives, some of them from the Artic region itself.
We have achieved a broad consensus and believe that we have formulated a sustainable policy on the High North.
The report analyses the new significance of the Arctic region and describes how the EU's policy in relation to our northern neighbours should be organised from the point of view of the European Parliament.
My guiding principle here is the offer of cooperation with the states and institutions of our neighbours in the High North.
We are aware of the bilateral and multilateral cooperation already taking place with the Arctic states.
Quite apart from the issues relating to the Arctic, Norway and Iceland are already closely involved in the European Economic Area and in cooperation under Schengen.
The EU is already an ad hoc observer in the Arctic Council, but I would like to make it clear that I believe it desirable that the EU should be given permanent observer status.
This is particularly the case because almost all policy areas of relevance to the region have been brought within the Community sphere in part at least.
This offer of cooperation is formulated in this way because we, the EU, cannot take action or initiate any activity in the Arctic in our own right.
We are largely dependent on the willingness of the immediately adjacent territories to cooperate with us.
In this report, I also focused on the human dimension.
In pursuing each individual area of common policy, all those involved must never lose sight of the fact that the concerns of those living in the Arctic must be given due consideration.
I am referring to the indigenous peoples in the countries, whose way of life and livelihoods follow the principle of sustainability, as well as for the other people living there.
We accept that these inhabitants of the Arctic region wish to develop their habitat; in other words, they do not want to see a conservation order placed on the area as it currently stands, turning it into something like a national park.
That is why we are working with the partners to ensure that intervention in the ecosystem and in natural habitats always follows the highest possible conservationist principles.
The EU is an attractive cooperative partner for Arctic states because we have played a pioneering role in the relevant policy areas, such as protection of the environment and the combating of climate change.
Thus, the question of whether or not the world's largest internal market pursues an ambitious environmental policy makes a vital difference for this region.
The EU is also an attractive cooperative partner because we are obvious customers for the commodities provided by the Arctic - not just oil and gas, but also rare ores, for example.
We should follow the good examples provided here, for example, in the cooperation between Norway and Russia in the Shtokman Field in the Barents Sea.
The highest Norwegian environmental standards are applied here as the partners cooperate in extracting these mineral resources.
I hope that the same will apply to the cooperative agreement reached between Russia and BP in recent weeks for exploration in the Arctic Sea.
In future, our monitoring satellites will provide valuable support, both in the environmental sector and in the opening up of new shipping routes, such as the Northeast Passage.
Cooperation in this area will make it possible to shorten shipping routes to Southeast Asia, for example.
For the EU, which accounts for about 40% of the world's commercial fleet, this is an important factor, particularly from a financial perspective.
Our Framework Programme for Research offers valuable support for further scientific cooperation between the various Polar institutes in their research stations in the Arctic.
Our neighbours in the High North know the EU to be a competent cooperative partner.
However, there is room for improvement when it comes to the formulation, coordination and implementation of our policies.
Improvement could be achieved by bringing together the responsible areas within the Commission under the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs and Fisheries and by establishing an appropriate body in the EEAS.
In addition, an Arctic information centre to gather and evaluate all the relevant information would also further improve our database.
The development of a circumpolar cofinancing and programming mechanism involving all the partners in the High North would also be an important instrument for better, more efficient cooperation in respect of research and development.
I am confident that this draft policy document will provide better guidelines for a comprehensive and successful Arctic policy in the EU that will also benefit our northern neighbours.
