Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, adapting the rules on vaccination for bluetongue is in accordance with the new EU vaccination policy as expressed in the Animal Health strategy 2007-2013 under the slogan 'Prevention is better than cure'.
A more flexible procedure for the vaccination of livestock is necessary if we are to be able to combat epidemics such as bluetongue more effectively and reduce their impact on farming.
Greater flexibility and prevention would undoubtedly be desirable for a number of animal epidemics.
A strict policy of non-vaccination such as we have long pursued in the EU is no longer relevant.
Consequently, I am of the opinion that we are taking the right step here.
I would also like to support Mrs Paulsen, who said that we must expect to see other animal epidemics in the near future as a result of climate change.
This, in turn, suggests that we need a clear strategy, and here of course, we can correctly practise this.
In this context, I would also like to reiterate that there should be no further discussion of culling in the Commission either.
In the case of bluetongue, we have, of course, benefited from the fact that we supported research and now have an inactivated vaccine and are able to carry out comprehensive vaccination, which was previously very dangerous and very difficult.
We are therefore in a new situation here.
I would also like to thank the rapporteur for having worked so quickly.
Experience has taught us to expect the first outbreaks in late summer and autumn.
The countries therefore need to elaborate vaccination strategies and also implement these.
To Mr Agnew, I would like to say that if you have a good vet, then he will recommend vaccination, because that is what is wanted by the vets that I know and it is what I have heard repeatedly during the discussions.
Naturally, that is not the end of it.
The Commission needs to draw up implementing regulations and adapt these to the new process, and that needs to be done just as quickly as here in Parliament.
I therefore call on the Commission to work quickly so that we can put this scientific progress to use before the end of the year.
