on behalf of the S&D Group. - Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Treaty of Lisbon has in fact put trade policy on a new footing.
The EU is solely responsible for trade policy and Parliament gives or withholds its consent.
In that respect, we have gained a new responsibility.
We can only enable this new responsibility to take shape if we act together.
We have proven that very clearly in this matter.
In this regard, I would also like to thank the rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs.
Trade policy is not an end in itself.
Its purpose is, firstly, to strengthen jobs and industrial development in the European Union and, secondly, to improve conditions for people in other countries of the world.
The aim of trade policy must be to achieve both of these goals.
We therefore need to assess this agreement from this viewpoint.
Overall, this is a step in the right direction towards fulfilling these two requirements.
However, we certainly do have a few points of criticism, for example the question of duty drawback in South Korea, which will bring one-sided competitive advantages for certain sectors of industry in South Korea, particularly in sensitive areas such as the automotive industry.
It was therefore right for us to have very intensive talks about a safeguard clause and also to have jointly implemented such a clause, which provides for the close monitoring of precisely these points, so that we can be certain that the possibilities provided by duty drawback in South Korea do not lead to a distortion of competition in Europe.
Parliament has rightly established safeguards here.
Secondly, this agreement also has the purpose of improving the situation in South Korea for our colleagues there.
South Korea still has improvements to make with regard to Chapter 13, in particular the question of the core labour standards laid down by the ILO.
Two absolutely crucial core labour standards - No 87 and No 98, relating to collective bargaining - have not be implemented or ratified.
Section 314 of the penal code relates to the obstruction of business.
Neither of these things is in line with the nature and the provisions of this agreement.
Thus, Commissioner, I am relying on you, and on the statement that you have given in support of the safeguard clause, to change this situation in South Korea so that this agreement will represent a blueprint for the future to enable globalisation to proceed in a fair manner.
