Mr President, Mr Rehn, ladies and gentlemen, sound statistics, efficient data collection and evaluation - that is the basis on which to shape the future.
It is obvious that we need to harmonise the Member States' existing statistics in order to take the right decisions for the future for the whole of Europe on the basis of the same data.
Equivalent, comparable data from all of the Member States is the goal.
The question arises as to what we can actually discover from this data.
What additional conclusions can we draw in order for Europe to develop in a balanced way in terms of its social, economic and environment policy?
The Commission wants to extend the economic accounts to key aspects of sustainable development.
To this end, it proposes three modules in order to collect data on economic activities that result in air emissions, on environmental tax revenue and on material flows.
Products of plant origin, for example, cereals, leguminous crops, vegetables, fruit and wood, are also included in this.
I wonder about the usefulness of such calculations - what will they actually tell us?
I am not as optimistic as the rapporteur and my fellow Members.
Wanting something is one thing; putting it into practice is quite another.
I have doubts about the efficiency of the red tape and I question the objectivity of the intention to produce environmental economic accounts, to record material flows and to evaluate individual products, including plants, in terms of CO2 emissions.
Both the production of oxygen as well as the emission of CO2 during production and transport must be included in such calculations with regard to plants, for example.
I welcome the fact that, in the compromise that has now been reached, it is clarified that additional data requirements may only be introduced following a flexibility assessment and that the competence of the Member States must not be encroached upon.
Such programmes must also be developed without additional financial expenditure and bureaucracy.
