Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, consumers and farmers must be better protected against irresponsible feed and feed fat adulterators.
We must put a stop to the work of these adulterators throughout Europe.
One fellow Member has just spoken solely about Germany, but we have unfortunately had dioxin and other similar scandals in the past in other Member States, too.
First and foremost, it is a matter for the public prosecutor, because these are criminal acts.
I hope that the public prosecutors in Germany and the organisations from other countries that may perhaps still be involved - there was also mention of the Netherlands being part of the chain - will work faster than the public prosecutors in Ireland.
There, the people responsible for a scandal in 2008 have only now been prosecuted.
We need to be faster in this regard in general.
I would ask that we put this scandal - and it is a scandal - into the right perspective.
The values were a maximum of four times too high.
That is bad, and there are good reasons why we have a precautionary level that must not be exceeded.
However, the precautionary level has been deliberately chosen so that we only reach the range in which long-term damage was seen in animal experiments at 100 times this limit.
Thus, there is no acute risk; it is a matter of precaution.
In the case of the scandal in Belgium in 1999, the values were 700 times higher than the current EU limit value.
We have also reduced dioxin contamination in the environment to a tenth of what it was in 1990 through EU measures - for example, through chemicals legislation, improved standards in connection with waste incineration plants and so on.
Nevertheless, we need measures that have to be taken in the foodstuffs chain throughout Europe.
We need dioxin monitoring, we need segregation of the fats, in my opinion, we need an EU-wide purity requirement for feed, and we need better protection for farmers who are not able to prevent such carelessness and criminal scheming from occurring again and again in the feedstuffs chain.
