Mr President, many thanks to Mr Gahler for his report.
It is clear, also from this report, that there is enormous interest in the natural resources of the Arctic region.
As a result of climate change, oil and gas and other resources can be extracted increasingly easily.
The issue of making better use of shipping routes has already been discussed.
The logical consequence of this is that pollution will increase in the region.
Industrial development - in particular, through the extraction of oil and gas, the expansion of commercial fishing and increased shipping traffic - will all necessarily lead to the disturbance, or perhaps even destruction, of this highly sensitive ecosystem, with devastating consequences.
Unfortunately, this report deals in generalities and does not contain any effective strategies for combating these dangers.
A point that is not mentioned is the fact that the EU is not alone in recognising the increased geostrategic significance of the Arctic.
The bordering states of Russia and NATO members USA, Canada, Denmark and Norway have already begun militarising the Arctic region and intend to protect their interests there.
Climate change has led to this situation in the Arctic.
We need to prevent the catastrophic progress of this change, something that can only be achieved through a rapid changeover to renewable energy sources.
However, this strategy takes a diametrically opposite approach.
We, the Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left, demand that the Arctic should not be allowed to become the next geopolitical hotspot.
In common with numerous environmental organisations, we are calling for a moratorium on new oil extraction projects in the Arctic.
A treaty needs to be agreed - similar to the Treaty on the Antarctic - that prohibits the extraction of mineral resources in the region.
Last but not least, we are calling for the immediate demilitarisation of the region and therefore for the establishment of the Arctic as a demilitarised zone.
Because my group and I are unable to support the results of the own-initiative report presented here, the GUE/NGL has submitted an alternative report.
(The speaker agreed to take a blue card question under Rule 149(8))
