Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin discussing light commercial vehicles, I would like to remind you that European car manufacturers have achieved the EU's CO2 product targets for cars several years before the deadline in 2015, by taking the appropriate technical measures.
It is now clear that the manufacturers were seriously exaggerating during the negotiations on the time period and the targets for the CO2 reduction measures for cars when these were subsequently watered down.
The manufacturers have taken the same approach in their lobbying activities concerning the CO2 reduction targets for light commercial vehicles.
I would like to know how a majority here in Parliament can knowingly repeat this mistake and give in once again to the demands of the automotive industry.
In this era of climate change, I believe that the important issues are protecting the environment and safeguarding the future of the human race.
If Parliament would at least support the Commission's proposal, this would put the European automotive industry at the cutting edge of technical development and, therefore, allow it to remain competitive.
The Commission proposed a reduction target of 135 grams of CO2 per kilometre.
Following a transition period, the manufacturers would not be required to reach this limit until 2020.
In my opinion, that would have been feasible.
Instead of this, under pressure from the Council, a poor compromise was reached behind closed doors, according to which car manufacturers must now reduce the CO2 emissions of light commercial vehicles to only 197 grams of CO2 per kilometre by 2020.
This feeble compromise is a gift to the industry.
Super-credits, phase-in periods and pooling will water down what is already a weak limit even further.
Lobbying by manufacturers among Members of this House and pressure from the vehicle manufacturing countries, namely Germany, France and Italy, in the Council have produced this poor result, which contains a whole series of loopholes.
This report is unacceptable.
It conflicts with the climate objectives of the EU and will slow down the pace of technical innovation.
The Confederal Group of the European United Left - Nordic Green Left will be voting against this report.
