Mr President, honourable Members, the European Union is working closely together with the United States of America in the war against terror.
Nevertheless, we attach a great deal of importance to protecting human rights as part of the process of combating terrorism.
In June of last year, we - the EU and the USA - drew up a joint declaration on combating terrorism which states that the war on terror must be in accord with the fundamental values and the principle of the rule of law.
The agreement specifies that all court proceedings against terrorist suspects must take place within a proper legal framework which ensures that appropriate procedural law will be followed and guarantees a fair trial which, as far as possible, is accessible to the public and efficiently run.
The European Union has been calling for the closure of the detention camp at Guantánamo Bay for many years.
We believe that a long imprisonment without trial is not compatible with international law.
The EU therefore welcomed the fact that, more than two years ago, President Obama announced and organised the closure of the camp within one year.
We have agreed a joint framework with the USA which forms the basis for the release and the admission into the EU Member States of some of the former prisoners.
We are still prepared to work closely with the United States on further measures to close the detention camp.
Despite the decree issued by the President in March of this year in which he officially authorised a longer stay in Guantánamo for some prisoners, the Union hopes - no, in fact, expects - the government of the United States to continue to discuss this subject in Congress and to work towards closing the detention camp as quickly as possible.
The European Union and the Member States resolutely oppose the death penalty under all circumstances.
We stand up for this viewpoint in the context of our relationships with all the countries of the world.
In accordance with the EU guidelines on the death penalty, we are exerting strong pressure on the United States to abolish the death penalty at a national level, and at the level of the US federal states, and we are calling for a pardon in individual cases.
We are therefore concerned about those prisoners who could be facing the death penalty.
We assume that the US authorities have not yet decided whether Muhammed al-Nashiri and the five people accused of complicity in the terrorist attacks 10 years ago can be sentenced to death by the court.
I can assure you that the European Union is monitoring the proceedings carefully and will regularly raise its concerns with regard to the death penalty and the fairness of the trial with the US authorities in an appropriate manner.
