Madam President, Commissioner, looking at the list of speakers, one might get the impression that the Community and also the Committee on Petitions is seen as some kind of supreme court in this process.
I would also like to say that these projects are not something from which we should be scoring political points.
We are talking here about a project in Damüls-Mellau.
These are two small communities.
The provincial government in Vorarlberg and the local administration tried to apply this Austrian law on the environment to the best of their ability.
I believe that there is no reason to reproach these authorities.
The legal question arises, however, as to how the Republic of Austria has transposed the EIA Directive.
Here, one must bear in mind that the legal traditions in Austria and also in the European Union vary widely.
I must point out to my fellow Member that I believe that Austria tried to do things properly.
In the course of this process, lawyers came to the opinion that a few mistakes may have been made.
I would like to emphasise once again that we are talking about just the last couple of percent here.
In this project, measures have been taken voluntarily to compensate for this, which seems to have been forgotten.
Substantial payments have been made.
That must also be stated.
Finally, we should probably also carry out a political appraisal.
Bearing in mind that compensatory measures have been carried out in this project, that an attempt has been made to put right any wrongdoing that may have taken place, then surely the project can be rubber-stamped.
Regrettably, at this juncture I must ask the Commission to treat everyone equally and to look outside our borders at some cases in other Member States where much greater damage is actually being done to natural resources.
The Commission should, however, proceed with a certain amount of circumspection here.
Such circumspection is particularly important in the area of environmental policy if it is to gain wider acceptance.
