Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for the debate.
I see broad support for the creation of environmental balance sheets in the European Union.
With a few exceptions, this has found favour here.
I also agree with Mrs Kadenbach's statement.
Many of us thought that this was already in place, and we were surprised to find that a lot of data does not exist at all, and that in the statements we make with regard to the state of the environment in the European Union, we are therefore actually completely blind.
One Member, Mr Gerbrandy, said that measurement brings knowledge.
We then know something, and knowledge is the basis for taking measures and for all of our programmes.
We quite simply need a better basis for the decisions that we take.
These environmental accounts can help us in this regard.
Of course, we have the EU 2020 strategy, in which sustainability is a planning goal.
I hope that in the next few years, we will also have this basis so that in 2020, we will be able to see whether we were successful or not.
We know that gross domestic product provides no information on the state of the natural world and the environment, on resources that we have used, or on the whole sustainability problem.
That is why this is now necessary.
We are also tackling this in stages.
Mrs Klaß, we are not making excessive demands; rather, the modules are to be expanded gradually.
After all, as the Commissioner said, the individual pieces of legislation - the water legislation, waste legislation and clean air legislation - already contain the requirement to collect this data.
Europe is also under a global obligation, Mr Nuttall.
If we sign the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Convention on Climate Change or any other convention, we must be able to tell the rest of the world whether we have done well or badly.
Thus, all in all, I would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs and also Eurostat, which will subsequently have to carry out the work.
I hope that the necessary resources will be available in Luxembourg, because without funds, without resources, this balance sheet cannot, of course, be produced.
Parliament should also help out in this regard.
Thank you very much.
This is an important political matter - as some people have rightly recognised - and it is a new chapter in the consideration of what we do in Europe year in year out.
