Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, dear guests from Thuringia in the visitors' gallery,
Mr President, to my colleague who is afraid of educated young people moving to another state, I would say that civilisation grows and develops when people move, and we ought not to be afraid of that.
It happens wherever people from different countries meet and bring together their various experiences: the examples of this in Europe are very numerous and it is good that we have so much to say about mobility.
This mobility will guarantee continued health and prosperity for Europe.
Mr Zver's report draws attention to numerous barriers that act as disincentives to mobility in Europe, and I would like to highlight some of them.
To take up what Mr Løkkegaard briefly mentioned, it is really not acceptable that young people who are studying, training or working abroad should encounter difficulties, when they move, with the most basic tasks such as accessing banking services or renting an apartment.
What is more, they are penalised by roaming charges when they try to telephone home or access the Internet and search online for basic, necessary information.
Data roaming is extremely expensive.
The Commission has proposed introducing a mobility scoreboard as part of the Youth on the Move initiative.
This will permit systematic monitoring of Member States' progress in dismantling barriers.
The scoreboard should be comprehensive and straightforward so that it can serve as a real catalyst to Member States' removing those obstacles.
This would benefit both old and young, students and workers.
I call on the Commission to present a detailed proposal on how this mobility scoreboard will be operated, and I hope it will do so as soon as possible.
In conclusion, mobility is a horizontal issue, and I therefore urge my colleagues, on the Committee on the Internal Market and Consumer Protection, and also on other committees, not to lose sight of the mobility dimension in their work in all areas.
