Mr President, I am sorry, Mr Šemeta, but what you are presenting is not enough.
It is months since Parliament gave you the job of investigating what action we can take, including in respect of a financial transaction tax; we gave you the job here in this House.
You have not done this.
What we know of your position - which has been presented in writing by the Commission on more than one occasion - is something different.
You want us to tax the small financial service providers: those that still maintain branches, that care about their customers, that care about medium-sized businesses, that ensure business credit is still available.
The parties you do not want to tax are the speculators: those who shift millions and billions around the globe with their high frequency trading, thereby ensuring that our economy is unpredictable - unpredictable even to good entrepreneurs and good investors who want to create decent jobs for the future.
Your position is therefore unsatisfactory and consequently, this House must find its own voice.
I am sorry to say that Mr Gauzès - whom I otherwise hold in very high esteem - is wrong on this occasion.
He is wrong because he is watering down the position adopted by this House previously in the Berès report.
Anyone who votes in favour of Mr Gauzès's proposal will be ensuring that the Commission does what it wants to do anyway - namely, proposes no financial transaction tax.
That will be the result of agreeing with Mr Gauzès.
That is why it would be wrong to agree with him in this instance.
Anyone who wants to give this House a voice, who wants to win back trust, who wants to ensure that the citizens of Europe can once again look to our institutions with hope and a belief that we are doing something to deal with the crises must, in this instance, vote in favour of the alternative motion tabled by the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Socialists and Democrats in the European Parliament and must vote in favour of Amendment 2, which has been endorsed by more than 120 Members of this House from all the major groups.
Thank you for your support.
