Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Russia and the European Union are partners because of their mutual interests and because of their geographical location.
This is the case whether we like it or not.
We must make this partnership a positive and constructive one.
That is why we need to make progress on the Partnership Agreement and on visa facilitation, to add substance to the Partnership for Modernisation, in order to work towards this.
We need to realise, however, that this gives rise to obligations on both sides, including in respect of membership of the World Trade Organisation (WTO), in that you cannot just continue doing as you like; rather, these agreed contractual or international rules are binding on everyone and there is no place for arbitrariness in reciprocal dealings.
This also precludes using energy as a political weapon, for example.
These mutual interests must be handled positively and constructively, and where external policy is concerned, this naturally also means that Russia must take on some responsibility.
At the moment, there is the case of Syria in the United Nations Security Council.
In such cases, Russia must make a constructive contribution to the creation of a peaceful international community.
This also means, however, accepting the sovereign rights of neighbouring states and their decisions as regards entering into the alliances that they wish to enter into.
Moreover, Russia must make a positive contribution in the case of 'frozen conflicts' and must now bring to an end the unlawful circumstances in Abkhazia and South Ossetia.
We have a shared responsibility in the global world.
It is clear that Russia and the European Union have substantial mutual interests in this global order, and in defining these interests, we must ensure that Russia recognises that democracy and the rule of law are also crucial for internal development.
A degree of conditionality is called for not just in relations with us alone; a country in which there is no rule of law is also not a good place to invest, because there is no legal certainty.
A country without democracy and the rule of law cannot really make progress in the long term for the benefit of its own citizens.
Let us hope that the Partnership for Modernisation and other matters will help us to find a common and positive way forward here.
