Madam President, Mr Šemeta, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report on the Protection of the European Union's financial interests - Fight against fraud - Annual Report 2009 introduces several new provisions.
Firstly, the Commission is trying to determine the extent of irregularities and fraud.
Unfortunately the report also makes obvious attempts to use statistics to play down the problem of irregularities and fraud at every turn.
Commissioner, I was not at all pleased to read this.
The report also offers more important news, namely the implementation of the reporting system for dealing with irregularities, known as IMS.
Data can now be entered at 800 offices throughout Europe, rather than 50 offices as before.
Accordingly, the proportion of irregularities in the agricultural sector rose by 43% and in the area of structural funds by 23%, while the total figure in the structural funds area actually rose by 109%.
This system needs further improvement.
It is painful to see that the Commission is still showing a great deal of patience in relation to implementation in the Member States, which continues to proceed at snail's pace.
This is also evident in the report.
Hence our call for the full implementation of the IMS.
We will only have credible data when the system is up and running correctly, enabling us to deal with quota irregularities and fraud.
We are very unhappy with the situation in Italy.
This country is way ahead of the rest when it comes to fraud.
The EU accounts up to 2004 were audited and 60% of suspected cases of fraud were attributed to Italy.
For this reason it would make sense to help this country with an action plan and a series of special measures.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to OLAF and its staff for the important work completed.
You have our backing, which is why we are calling for greater support from the Commission for the European Anti-Fraud Office.
Why are problems encountered with access to databases if the Commission claims that it supports the work of OLAF and considers it just as important as we do?
Commissioner, we would be grateful to hear some answers and to receive appropriate remedies in the legislation introduced by the Commission.
