Mr President, many roads lead to the MCA - the maximum credible accident.
For all our dealings with accidents and disaster, is it perhaps the case that, despite the misery they have caused, we have yet to learn our lesson from them?
Thousands, indeed hundreds of thousands, of children are ill or have been born handicapped, and the rate is increasing.
Although areas of land the size of the Netherlands are contaminated, we have allowed time to elapse without taking action.
The RBMK and VVER reactors are scrap heaps and will remain so, and retrofits will do nothing to alter that!
They have no emergency cooling systems and no fire-prevention mechanisms, and it is of very little use, for instance, when the operators say that they have good firefighting teams.
There is a lack of instruction manuals.
Safety precautions on site are absolutely minimal.
The sum of ECU 550 million has already been pumped in from the PHARE and TACIS programmes.
What do we have to show for it?
First of all, 90 % of the funds have been disbursed in western Europe on safety studies.
Strictly speaking, the object of the exercise has been to open the door to new markets.
We have not achieved any more security at these sites.
There can surely be no question of that.
What has occurred is not a reduction but rather a prolongation of the risk.
That has to be acknowledged once and for all.
We are categorically opposed to the completion of two reactors which are already in an absolutely desolate condition and cannot be properly completed.
For six billion dollars we could have new cogeneration plants, generating both heat and power, with an output of 10 000 megawatts.
Instead of that, money is being squandered so that some companies can earn more profits.
It is scandalous, unacceptable and a disgrace to the European Union.
Let me say one more thing.
In western Europe we have many reactors that are no better than those.
If we continue to pursue the same policies here, the next MCA will come along as swiftly and surely as night follows day!
