Mr President, I congratulate Mrs Mouskouri on this report on the promotion of the linguistic diversity of the Community in the information society.
The development of globally interlinked information and communication services could have a major impact on the languages we use.
People who are not in a position to communicate properly in the usual languages could be prevented from taking full part in our increasingly information-oriented society.
Since information affects all levels of society, equality of opportunity for all is of major importance in order to ensure full participation by all.
If we allow the information revolution to advance unchecked this could lead to a two-tier society.
Many of the minority languages find themselves in difficulties under the influence of changing communication patterns.
If the new technologies are put to full use that could even speed up the process and risk destroying the linguistic and cultural diversity of the European Community.
I recently leafed through a report by 'Euromosaic' which is about minority-language communities and which points out that earlier proposals concerned emotive, traditional activities such as folklore whereas today we are also concerned with preventing the social and economic marginalization of minority-language communities and that it is also of decisive importance whether the use of the language in question is extended to the working environment.
That is to say, we are concerned today not with cultural but with economic measures.
By the way, there is also some criticism of the fact that not only are not enough funds available but that they are not always spent efficiently.
We need specific directives to ensure a balance between the major language groups and those languages that are used in smaller national or regional groups in Europe, with a view to achieving equality of opportunity.
Resources such as electronic dictionaries, terminology data banks and language and grammar data banks are needed in order to transform communication technologies into marketable products.
Here the necessary efforts will have to be made to attract investment from the private sector and small and medium-sized undertakings.
Small undertakings, as Mrs Mouskouri also noted, that are confronted with large and diversifying markets also need to be offered adequate assistance.
The Member States, the European Commission and private undertakings have already invested substantially in the production of language resources.
However, most of these are single-language systems and, moreover, the current systems are not sufficiently compatible.
The linguistic diversity in Europe is notable compared, for example, with that in the USA or Japan.
Europe has the scientific and technological know-how and the economic strength, but it must also have the political will to maintain its linguistic diversity in the information age, which is what the people of Europe want.
Let me underline that the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media calls for the modest financing basis to be increased from ECU 15 m to ECU 20 m.
The people must be guaranteed their basic right of access to information in their European mother tongue.
European society must not be split into the informed and the uninformed.
Europe's richness lies in its diversity.
We must promote it and invest in it in a well-considered way.
