Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, competition is a key element of our social market economy.
Who would not be in favour of the liberalization of competition?
Who would be against curbing any domination of the market?
However, the details of what is acceptable in principle must also be correct.
The conditions of competition must be fair.
Dumping in terms of prices or conditions is unacceptable.
The criteria for suppliers and their services must be quite clearly defined.
With regard to groundhandling services at Community airports, the following must be taken into account: firstly, the different physical capacities of the Community's airports, which frequently cannot be extended because of limited space or for environmental reasons; secondly, the need to ensure quality, in the interests of both passengers and airlines; and, thirdly, the capabilities of suppliers, since not all suppliers are able to guarantee that they can meet the necessary technical, industrial and operational safety requirements and high environmental standards.
The Council's common position incorporates only some of Parliament's proposals.
These include express recognition of the fact that the Member States must guarantee a high level of social protection.
Employees' rights with regard to training and occupational safety must be taken into account.
The proposal to restrict self-handling for reasons of space and capacity is also included.
However, the necessary balance in the safeguarding of the interests of users - passengers and airport employees - is absent from the common position.
Further points must also be incorporated into the common position.
Firstly, in any restructuring process, priority must be given to safeguarding existing jobs and guaranteeing the social protection of employees.
Secondly, with a view to ensuring quality - a key element of industrial productivity in Europe - a higher level of training, conforming to the ISO 9000 standard, should be aimed at.
It is in the interests of passengers that no mistakes are made in groundhandling, that precision is not the exception but the rule.
A qualified groundhandler makes an essential contribution to maintaining the highest standards of safety.
Thirdly, the concept of self-handler must be clearly defined.
If parent and subsidiary companies simply provide groundhandling services for each other, then we must seriously ask ourselves whether competition is genuinely being ensured!
Fourthly, the planned user committee must include representatives of travel organizations and airport employees, with a view to protecting workers' interests.
In order to ensure the committee's neutrality, its chairman must be independent of the airport and its users.
I call on the Commission to support these views.
If it backs us in the vote on these and other amendments tomorrow, there will no longer be any argument for rejecting the Council's common position.
Our positions have moved closer together.
Now the Commission must take the decisive step!
