Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission report has been out for two years now, and the House has discussed it in great detail over that period.
It is a good thing that Mrs Soltwedel-Schäfer can now tell us that the wording of various passages has been watered down, because the proposals she originally put forward were completely unworkable.
But there are still plenty of points in this report that we do not agree with, and I think it is too simplistic to claim, as Mrs Soltwedel-Schäfer does, that every argument put forward by the industry must be unconstructive.
This is not the right way to go about things.
After intensive discussions, there are now four points on which we have tabled amendments with the Liberals: firstly, the question of whether the best way to ensure the future viability of the sector is through greater competition or more regulation; secondly, the role of genetic technology and biotechnology in the development of medicines for the future, particularly for previously incurable diseases; thirdly, the research and development of innovative products; and fourthly, closely linked to that, the question of generic medicines and selfmedication.
We feel that the Commission report paints a relatively accurate picture, but the proposals which it puts forward still need some improvement.
We agree with the Socialist Group's analysis here.
However, I do not believe that price controls and other measures which restrict competition are the way to ensure future viability.
What we need instead are measures which promote competition and thus give firms the opportunity to establish their innovative capacity on a long-term basis, and to offer people better medicines for the future.
The future role of genetic technology and biotechnology is still in dispute, and although we need to take account of people's concerns and fears, this does not mean that we should simply reject this vital field out of hand.
We must analyse the situation carefully, and if Europe's industry is to remain competitive, we cannot afford simply to say 'this is all too dangerous for us' , otherwise we shall soon see the entire sector move to the USA.
The most controversial subject in the committee was the issue of generic medicines, on which there was fierce lobbying from the industry.
We feel that we should keep to the compromise we reached earlier, which was that we should encourage the prescription of generic medicines in general, but without jeopardizing the level of innovative research being carried out in the industry, and so the agreed protection periods should be maintained.
What we could do, however, is to harmonize the durations of these periods, which vary between six and 36 months in Europe for generics, with an average of 18 months after the expiry of the patent period.
This is one area where we can actually achieve something, and I think it would be a good way to promote greater transparency and more competition on the market.
