Ladies and gentlemen, the European legislation on fixing maximum levels for pesticide residues is to be updated.
The main aims of the proposal for a directive are to extend the scope of the directives being amended, so as to cover processed and dried agricultural products and include composite processed products, and to harmonize provisions on exports, exemptions and monitoring programmes.
The Commission is proposing that the relevant provisions should be based on Article 43, which is known as the agriculture article.
This implies that pesticide residues are regarded as necessary and unavoidable in the production of foodstuffs.
The Commission's main purpose is to increase agricultural production.
Environmental and health protection take second place.
Under Article 43, the European Parliament's only right is to be consulted.
Moreover, a committee appointed by the Commission is to fix the limit values on the basis of a purely toxicological approach.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has therefore submitted a report which gives a higher priority to environmental and health protection.
We know that there are more than 800 different pesticides, and many of these substances have carcinogenic or mutagenic effects and weaken the immune system.
That is why the protection of consumers and the environment must be taken into account when fixing pesticide limit values.
This can be done if the directive is based on Article 100a, as proposed by the Committee on the Environment.
The existing procedure for fixing pesticide limit values is based on animal experiments and the ADI value, and geared exclusively to adults weighing 70 kilos.
In other words, it fails to take account of the actual breakdown of the population and the particular dangers for the sick, children and the infirm.
No account whatever is taken of interactions between different pesticides.
The Committee on the Environment therefore proposes setting a standard maximum concentration of 0.01 mg of active substance per kilogram of food.
The limit value for drinking water is in fact a hundred times more stringent, but we are obliged to permit one hundred times more pesticide in solid foods, such as vegetables, because there is a detection threshold.
Nonetheless, in terms of environmental and health policy, what we are proposing would be a great improvement, because the current permissible level of pesticides in solid foods is up to 10 000 times higher than the level for drinking water.
We take the view that if we afford a high level of protection to drinking water, we should do the same for solid foods, particularly in view of the fact that more than 80 % of our water intake comes from solid foods, rather than liquids.
The Committee on the Environment also proposes a total limit value of 0.05 mg.
This is intended to reduce the dangers to health from the unknown interactive effects of different substances.
Only recently, an American study from New Orleans demonstrated that the interaction of a number of chlorinated pesticides was substantially more damaging to health than the isolated effects of the individual substances.
The proposals from the Committee on the Environment also represent a degree of deregulation and simplification of the procedure.
Instead of fixing a separate value for each foodstuff, whether rhubarb or cauliflower, we propose that there should be a single limit value for pesticides and a total limit value, as is the case with the drinking water directive.
This would simplify matters and make it clear that what we are trying to do here is to improve environmental protection.
Our concern is to reduce the volume of pesticides in order to protect the environment.
Back in 1991, a cost-benefit analysis in the USA showed that 90 % of all pesticides were superfluous.
Pesticide reduction programmes in Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands have demonstrated that there is another way.
In Sweden, over five years, these programmes have produced a 50 % reduction in the amount of pesticides used, and in Denmark, reductions of up to 30 % over seven years, depending on the substance.
This shows that the use of pesticides can be reduced without jeopardizing agricultural production.
The report proposes the use of integrated plant protection, to which the EU has already committed itself in the Rio summit's Agenda 21.
Finally, the report calls for a binding definition of good farming practice, based precisely on the commitments which the EU made in Rio.
It seems to me that the only way to overcome the problem of pesticide residues in food is to avoid using pesticides in farming.
Let me conclude by recalling something that Commissioner Fischler said, with which I agree: cynical as it might sound, the BSE crisis is the very thing which could accelerate the process of reflection on a change of course for agriculture in the EU.
I believe that we should be producing for the market, not trying to slip our production past the market.
That is why I would ask you to approve the report of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
