Madam President, last week the Committee on Regional Policy met in Brussels.
At that meeting, two Austrian heads of provincial governments, who had entered into office as a result of democratic elections, could not be given formal accreditation owing to the British policy of non-cooperation.
The problem in the Committee on Regional Policy was solved in the spirit of European cooperation.
We must do the same thing on the subject of BSE, and in doing so we must not, above all, forget our own farmers at home.
Yesterday evening many millions of Europeans had the pleasure of seeing the excellent match between England and the Netherlands.
I should like to ask our British colleagues what would have happened if Europe had followed a policy of non-cooperation in the European football championship.
But there are more important things in Europe than the Committee on Regional Policy and the European football championship: unemployment, a Europe that is able to act for itself, economic and monetary union and many other things.
And here we really do need the cooperation of everybody.
As far as unemployment is concerned, we need not only cooperation, but also workable plans, not mere catch-phrases.
There are massive conceptual differences here, between us, the Group of the European People's Party, and other groups within this House, in particular the Socialists.
Employment cannot be guaranteed on paper only.
A paper employment chapter in the Treaty is simply too little, and if it were to result in a centrally controlled employment policy for Europe, then that would be too much.
Jobs are created by the economy, and above all by small and medium-sized enterprises.
The Member States and the Union must cooperate with one another in order to create the framework conditions that we need to get more jobs.
I shall end with a quote from a young, twenty-five year old man, who wrote to me as follows, "Let us not forget that the European Communities did not arise out of sheer affection between nations, but out of the experience of terrible catastrophes caused by senseless nationalism and ignorance of one's neighbours' .
Let us not disappoint that young man!
