Ladies and gentlemen, the active substances in medicines and plant protection products are covered by the corresponding EU directives.
The last major field remaining - all other active biocidal substances - will now be dealt with by this proposed directive.
These rules are particularly important for the environment and consumer protection, since many people come into contact with products containing biocidal substances.
We are talking here about insecticides, disinfectants, preservatives and products used to protect materials, to mention but a few.
As it stands at present, this new directive will apply to all the groups of biocidal products not covered by the plant protectives directive.
Since it deals with similar effects, the Commission's draft follows that directive very closely.
Unlike plant protection products, however, biocidal substances are a very diverse sector, as Mr Langen has already pointed out.
There are some 400 active substances used in around 7000 products, and above all produced by many small and medium-sized businesses.
Individual substances and products are already tested on a national basis, and are only licensed for use after testing.
But so far there have not been the kind of uniform and systematic rules which are urgently needed at Community level, not only for reasons of competition and to ensure freedom of trade, but also and above all to protect consumers and the environment.
Every test involves not only costs, but also a huge investment of time and materials, with a corresponding administrative burden on the authorities of the Member States.
I regard it as absolutely essential to strike a reasonable balance here - with the proviso, of course, that the protection of consumers and the environment is guaranteed.
Important as this Community protective legislation is, it can only work if the implementing provisions are adopted at the same time, if both the directive and the implementing provisions are clear and unambiguous, and if evaluation is carried out on the basis of objective criteria, which in my view - as has already been mentioned, albeit the other way round - is not the case with the so-called comparative assessment provided for in Article 9(5).
With these points in mind, our group has tabled a number of amendments.
