Madam President, in its communication on the Common Transport Policy Action Programme for 1995-2000 the Commission has certainly heralded a step towards a comprehensive transport policy strategy.
The concentration on four lines of action is indicative of the desire to take an integrated approach to transport legislation.
What makes this all the more gratifying is that Members who serve on the competent parliamentary committee sometimes feel they are dealing with a motley assortment of unconnected legislative bills.
Transport, and this can never be repeated too often, cannot be compartmentalized into separate modes.
It must always be seen in its entirety and subordinated to overriding strategic aims, such as the reduction of environmental pollution.
These remarks assume particular significance if we look at the social dimension and the question of working hours.
Each of us knows that compliance with legally prescribed driving and rest periods is patchy.
This not only harms and endangers the drivers in question but also involves constant subsidization of an environmentally detrimental form of transport.
The legal remedies available to us at European level appear modest when compared with the powers available under classic competition law and with those vested in DirectorateGeneral VI.
The communication from the Commission envisages the line of action entitled 'taking account of the social dimension' as amounting only to continued consultation of management and labour.
However, to rebuke the Commissioner for such inadequacies is to miss the point, for the real problem is that the Member States are continuing to hide behind the mask of subsidiarity.
But the consequences of this policy - or, to be more precise, this lack of policy - affect the whole internal market and distort competition between modes of transport.
And so in conclusion I wish to voice my doubts as to whether the Commission can ever achieve the aim it has formulated in the White Paper by environmentally compatible means.
