Mr President, in times of recession, one should actually be welcoming an increase of ECU 700 million for the fourth framework programme of activities in the field of research.
Research and development must receive financial backing, but the focus has to be right.
And, in our opinion, the focus no longer is right.
I should like to explain this by taking some examples.
First of all, another ECU 105 m - and we have in fact tabled an amendment here, but I fear it will not be adopted - is to go to Euratom, where it will be used for fusion, a form of energy which has already received ECU 895 m under the fourth framework programme, and which might perhaps solve our problems in the year 2030 or 2050, but certainly not here and now.
Secondly, the money is to be spent on the so-called inherently safe reactor, something which does not and cannot exist, and for which there is no acceptance among the general public.
Moreover, as Mr Scapagnini has quite rightly said, research funds always go to major industry and not to SMEs, which could really do with them.
Another case in point is that, according to the proposal from the Commission, ECU 150 m was to be made available for the SAVE II programme.
The Council then had the impudence to reduce this funding to ECU 45 m: in other words, it has slashed a five-year programme, the only programme we still have which could go some way to meeting the commitments we made in Rio and Berlin.
But huge sums of money are to be spent on aeronautics and fusion and other such gimmicks.
My second example concerns THERMIE.
No one mentions THERMIE II any more, another programme which has become absolutely vital.
We hear every day that CO2 levels are rising.
And now some clever people are saying that the cause is our opposition to nuclear power plants.
What nonsense!
Having looked at the OECD statistics, I note that countries with a particularly large number of nuclear power stations do not have lower CO2 emissions.
In fact, this phenomenon is caused primarily by traffic, which is not being taken into account at all.
In conclusion, we cannot approve this increase, because we believe that the focus is wrong and it will not solve our immediate, pressing problems, even though many of the minor points contained in the proposal are - admittedly - worthy of support.
