Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when one meets a large number of people, as is presently the case in Austria in the context of the campaign for elections to the European Parliament, one realises one thing: there are few subjects the European taxpayers feel so strongly about as the fact that they know a substantial part of the budget is annihilated by fraud and waste.
There is a direct link between the growing rejection of the European Union and the awareness of this deplorable situation.
Fraud and waste to the detriment of the Community budget are of course primarily fraud and waste to the detriment of the taxpayers in the Member States.
Efficient measures to combat fraud therefore represent first and foremost a service to the European taxpayer.
Citizens with fewer social advantages, who have to make great sacrifices to enable their state to fulfil the Maastricht criteria, have no sympathy at all for the fact that criminal individuals or institutions can indirectly become wealthy at their cost.
In the context of Community policy, a very important place must be given to combating fraud.
The necessary instruments must be created, including legal provisions, machinery for combating fraud and in particular a basis for cooperation.
We need efficient control.
Above all, very strict penalties must be imposed for fraud.
A common, uniform, effective and deterrent policy of penalization must be established.
We must also prevent Member States from trying to escape from efficient control under pretext of the subsidiarity principle.
That would be an unacceptable abuse of the principle of subsidiarity.
Those who receive money from the Community budget must also allow the appropriate checks to be carried out.
The prevention of fraud must, however, be given priority.
A regional development policy that distributes aid in an indiscriminate manner opens the door wide to corruption.
But a development policy that consistently and efficiently sets and pursues specific objectives is less exposed to the risks of waste, corruption and fraud.
