Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a practising pharmacist and someone with research experience in the pharmaceutical industry, there are two points that I should like to make.
I tabled an amendment on self-medication in which I urged that medicines which are no longer to be prescription-only should still be available only from pharmacies, and only issued once the pharmacist has been able to advise the patient.
The most obvious thing that the medical profession does is to advise patients and help them with self-medication.
The transition of medicines from being prescription-only to being available over the counter must be carefully monitored.
I am thinking here in particular of patients who were addicted to phenacetin and often used to take headache pills just for fun, and I see the same warning signs with the uncontrolled consumption of aspirin, which people now seem to regard as a panacea.
Moving on to the question of support for generic medicines, the main thing as far as I am concerned is that while generics are certainly of considerable value, the same competitive conditions must apply for them as for innovative drugs.
Only those who have no idea of the huge costs involved in researching new drugs could be in favour of granting earlier licences for generics.
The comparison with the United States, it must be said, simply does not hold water.
As has already been pointed out, patents are protected for 16 years nationwide in the US, whereas in Europe, protection only takes effect once the product has been licensed in the various individual countries.
I am not in favour of making generics prescription-only, since I think it is better to leave them to market forces.
As for the use of genetic technology in the production of pharmaceuticals, I can only see the huge opportunities which this offers, and I feel that there is no point in discussing the risks until we can assess the advances that are likely to be made in the treatment of diseases which present a major threat to mankind.
