Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the actual date by which freedom of movement in Europe ought to have been made a reality was 1 January 1993.
Consequently, according to the Treaty that was signed by all fifteen Member States, what we ought to be doing today is not debating the introduction of freedom of movement, but instead, for example, receiving a report on how it has functioned and deciding what action to take, and how to achieve further progress if possible.
But we are a long way from that.
I am not saying that the failure so far to achieve freedom of movement is a breach of the Treaty, but it goes against the intention to which all fifteen Member States put their signature.
The fact is that the idea was not just to create freedom of movement for services and capital: at this important time, people too should be able to experience Europe in the fullest sense.
They should be able to travel freely in Europe and to see, as citizens, what they make of this European Union that we have entered into.
That has not happened.
And I am not saying that it is the Council, as such, which has prevented it from happening - we must cultivate the habit of taking a rather more critical look at things.
There are certain Member States that are not fulfilling their obligations under the Treaty.
It is only a minority of them which are in this position, and the arguments which they employ do not stand up.
They say that freedom of movement cannot be created just like that, because the internal frontiers have played an important role in combatting crime, for example.
That is a completely anachronistic position to adopt, ladies and gentlemen.
It is an untenable position nowadays for any expert on the subject.
It is quite ridiculous to claim that crime cannot be effectively combatted without frontier controls.
If that were the case - if frontier controls were really necessary for combatting crime - we should have to reintroduce them between Bavaria and Hesse, for example.
Such a thing is unthinkable.
Nowadays, criminal activity needs to be tackled using quite different instruments - Interpol, for example, and the data bases that are to be installed there.
That is the modern way to combat crime - and, amazingly, its implementation is being delayed by precisely the same countries that are denying us freedom of movement on the scale sought by the Treaties.
One of the catchphrases is 'accompanying measures' .
It is true that the Council still has some homework to do before freedom of movement can become a reality.
It is true that frontier controls cannot simply be abolished without putting some alternative options in place.
The external frontiers must be secured.
It must be clear, in future, that by crossing an external frontier into a Member State of the European Union, a person acquires freedom of movement throughout the Union.
This means that the country which allows a person to enter across its external frontier also becomes responsible for that person's freedom of movement in the Union as a whole.
It should be noted here that we seek this freedom of movement not only for citizens of the European Union, but also for citizens of third countries who are legally resident in the Union.
There is really no other concept of freedom of movement.
We cannot have a two-tier system of freedom of movement in Europe; freedom of movement must be enjoyed by everyone who is legally in the European Union.
It seems strange in this situation that, just when the Commission is doing what Parliament asked it to do by submitting appropriate proposals - and Commissioner Monti's proposals have our unqualified support - and just when we are reaching a position on those proposals, some entirely new ideas should be published in Council circles.
I do not intend, at this point, to discuss institutional developments, but it is very clear indeed that the first thing we need to know now is what the Council is actually seeking.
That is why I am convinced that we cannot come to any conclusion until the Council supplies us with some information as regards what it is really up to with its new joint action.
We wish everyone in Europe to have freedom of movement as soon as possible, and those whose fault it is that such freedom is not yet in place must now be called to account.
