Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a Member of the House referred this morning to the idea that, when they hold the presidency of the Council, the small Member States of the European Union do not possess the clout to galvanize the other States into action.
Nevertheless, I am very encouraged by what we have heard this morning.
For that reason I ask the Irish presidency to channel some of the energy to which the President-in-Office bore witness this morning into addressing a problem currently under discussion at the Intergovernmental Conference and about which our group is increasingly concerned, namely that of the democratic deficit within the European Union.
When we fight crime, when we proceed now - as Mr Poettering very lucidly and rightly said - to bring certain domains such as asylum or immigration under the Community umbrella as a matter of urgency, we not only need to intensify cooperation among Member governments, as the President-in-Office advocated.
We certainly need to do that, but we must also intensify cooperation between police authorities in the fight against crime and create a European police organization.
This, however, must not be done at the level of intergovernmental cooperation, for that would give rise to a dangerous development.
The fact that only executive bodies cooperate with each other and try to come up with European solutions means that the national parliaments - as we have all heard from parliamentarian colleagues in our own countries - are told with increasing regularity that they need no longer concern themselves with this particular issue because it is a European matter.
This domain, in other words, is being surreptitiously prised from the control and participation of the national parliaments.
At the same time, however, because of the structure of the Treaties and the current interinstitutional structure, the power to legislate on these matters has not passed to the European Parliament.
So an uncontrolled democracyfree zone, as it were, is emerging, precisely where decisions are taken which affect the personal rights of the individual citizens of the European Union, as we saw here yesterday in our debate on freedom of movement.
Parliament and the Commission are endeavouring to eliminate the deficit in terms of the remaining restrictions on freedom of movement, but we hear that, behind the backs of Parliament and the Commission, the Council under its present Irish presidency is planning a draft joint action, in other words a joint measure on the basis of Article K.4 of the Treaty, which means that neither the Commission nor Parliament are involved in it.
That is no way to foster democratization and amounts at best to a contribution to closer intergovernmental cooperation.
That is why I ask the presidency to lend impetus to the democratization process by ensuring that Parliament is strengthened.
You can set a good example, Mr President-in-Office, if you can ensure that, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs in September, the competent Minister helps to allay the irritation that has arisen in connection with the Monti initiatives and the debate on freedom of movement.
