Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rocard quite rightly describes mass unemployment as a threat to the social cohesion of every Member State and the Union as a whole.
I agree with him when he says that there is no miracle cure.
Generally speaking, however, his suggestions concentrate too much on substantial cuts in working hours.
Reducing working hours is not in itself a strategy for growth.
But there are practical examples which show that it has prevented dismissals and distributed the available jobs among a greater number of workers.
Like others before me, I would refer to the working-time model adopted by Volkswagen, which was admittedly geared to that company's own needs.
This prevented several thousand lay-offs.
I would also mention the Commission's confidence pact, the key term in which is flexibility.
What this means is positive flexibility, and that is what the PPE Group is looking for in its amendments aimed at replacing the term 'reduction in working hours' in certain sections of the report with 'adaptation of working hours' .
After all, part-time work and other tailor-made patterns of work organization are relevant here as well.
In recent years, the 'breathing factory' model has emerged, for example at Opel in Rüsselsheim, with its central band of working time allowing for longer or shorter working hours, depending on the flow of work.
We should not raise workers' expectations too high, for example with rigid - but mistaken - mathematical formulae such as: 10 % less working time equals 10 % more jobs.
Nor would it be tolerable in the case of many small businesses if uniform, across-the-board reductions in working time were steamrollered through from Dresden to Porto.
My comments are spelt out in a number of amendments tabled by my group.
But these do not bring us into conflict with Mr Rocard's ideas on social policy, as I have come to understand them over the past two years.
Rather, I am extremely grateful to him for his thought-provoking work.
After all, the problem of unemployment in Europe can only be solved if we all pull together.
I would therefore ask for the PPE Group's amendments to be adopted.
