Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the cattle disease BSE has not only provoked a crisis within the European Union; above all, it has led to a significant loss of consumer confidence.
Anxious consumers mean a reduction in sales, and that in turn means lower prices for beef producers.
We are locked into a cycle here which has already produced unforeseeable effects and which we urgently need to bring under control.
But the best way for us to do that would be to restore confidence in European meat production.
We should therefore take a first step towards that goal by rigorously culling the BSE-infected herds.
The introduction of a practicable system of identification marking for meat and meat products across the whole of Europe, animal protection standards that apply throughout Europe, intensified research efforts to discover ways in which BSE can be transmitted and a critical examination of yield enhancers, medicated feed additives and feed supplements, as well as their residues, are also necessary.
Consumers must ultimately be able to find out where their meat comes from.
The danger at the present time is that hasty measures will be taken through force of circumstances and will sap consumer confidence still further.
This could be the case if the export ban were lifted without appropriate prior guarantees that the animalidentification system will work, for example, or that the ban on feeding with bone meal will not be contravened.
In addition, continuous monitoring by the EU will be necessary in future.
This is also the context in which the Austrian position in the Council should be seen, for at the present time we feel that the uncertainties are still too great.
It is in the interests of no-one to maintain an indefinite export ban on British cattle, but it is surely in the interests of everyone that safety and quality of supply should be ensured.
Let us not only regard the current problems as a disaster but let us also see them as an opportunity to take the proper steps in the right direction.
