Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in this case, as so often these days, we have good news and bad news.
The good news is that the proposal was referred to Parliament and the committee at all.
Our thanks go to the Commission for that.
The bad news, and I urge the Commission and the Council to take this properly on board, is that the rapporteur had good reason to point out that we do not intend to deliver an opinion but to give our assent; we believe this simply reflects valid Community law, for two quite straightforward reasons.
The first reason is that it is the extension of a treaty - GATT - to which we had to give our assent.
It is the logical sequel and the logical consequence of this that all further negotiations resulting from the treaty should be subject to parliamentary assent as a matter of course.
It makes no sense to seek our assent on the original question but not to have us approve the results of the follow-up negotiations, which are just as important and relevant; furthermore, as we now know, our political responsibility has become even greater, because GATS is a very important element in the World Trade Organization.
The second reason is that GATS is an international agreement, and international agreements are now referred to us.
I simply ask the Commission and the Council to take note of that and to let Parliament perform the duty which is incumbent upon us and which we are prepared to discharge in a responsible manner.
There is another piece of good news, thanks once again to the Commission.
This is the second time I have thanked you today, because you have really done some excellent work.
You undoubtedly prevented the collapse of the talks during the negotiating rounds.
We know how difficult the Americans were as negotiating partners, in the talks on the telecommunications element of GATS as in other domains.
Here too, you negotiated exceedingly well, for which I offer you our special thanks.
This should send a signal to the United States, urging it simply to regard liberalization as a philosophy that should be followed throughout the world.
The United States has almost always been the leading exponent of free trade, but now it is abandoning the principle wherever awkward situations arise, and that must not happen!
The Americans really must see the process through and stop merely pushing national and regional interests.
That also applies, incidentally, to our debate on Helms-Burton.
I ask the United States to take this message to heart.
