Mr President, if we wish to have monetary union, we must combat unemployment in the European Union, as is repeatedly stressed by both the European Monetary Institute and the Commission in its annual economic report.
To my mind, however, it is not enough to carry on as before.
We need to provide greater impetus on the structural policy side, and that is why the economic policy guidelines must indeed be reoriented, as Parliament is calling for today.
This is now more important than ever, because we need a more optimistic and confident approach in order to complete the project of monetary union.
If, happily - as is also noted by the EMI - the work is on schedule, this project must not be jeopardized by a lack of credibility as regards the other policy elements.
I do hope that the European Monetary Institute will continue to adhere to the timetable, and that Mr Lamfalussy can give us a guarantee that the EMI will carry out its evaluation of convergence this autumn in such a way as to establish whether or not a majority of the Member States meet the convergence criteria, so that there is clarity about the appraisal and the scope for interpretation, and also about the need for participation in a European exchange-rate mechanism.
The House stated very early on that currencies not participating in European monetary union should be linked to it by means of an exchange-rate mechanism with the euro as its anchor-point.
Fortunately the monetary institutions, as well as the Commission and the Council, have since come round to Parliament's position.
What kind of mechanism should this be?
In my opinion, we need a European system of solidarity and stability, because on the one hand the currencies not belonging to the monetary union must be protected from speculative attacks, and on the other a split in the internal market must be prevented.
Above all, we should assure the other currencies of our support and solidarity, so that they can join the monetary union as soon as possible.
In fact, as the past few years have shown, exchange-rate turbulence has a detrimental effect not only on economic growth, but also on employment.
It is therefore important to introduce an exchange-rate mechanism on these lines, in order to maintain the credibility of the initiative.
In my view, it is very important that the European Monetary Institute should conduct further studies of these exchange-rate fluctuations, in particular to examine their micro-economic effects, since these can give us a much clearer picture of individual sectors and branches of industry, especially in 1995, and show how these elements have contributed to the lack of confidence in business circles.
Ultimately, what is crucial today is not wage costs, but the factor which distorts competition within the internal market by pushing up unit labour costs in countries with hard currencies, namely exchange-rate variations and fluctuations, as well as exchange-rate protection operations.
So it is high time for us to invent a mechanism which makes one thing clear: that those currencies which do not participate in monetary union immediately will be able to join in later, and that the internal market as such will not be fragmented; rather, European monetary union is a further step towards its consolidation, and another contribution to the multinational dimension of the market.
