The future path of human gene technology is full of ethical and practical problems.
In the next few years we will have almost complete technical knowledge of the make-up of the human genome, but we will probably still not have an understanding of the complex interactions of the human mind and body or of the inter-relationship between people and their living environment.
The debate has shown that the issues go to the core of the way society chooses to view itself and the conflicts which this technology introduces.
Reproductive rights, abortion, genetic testing, embryo research, gene therapies, genetic privacy, the rights of incapacitated people - all these and more are delicate and sensitive questions.
We will be offered simplistic solutions to problems that we may not even know we had.
Genetic determinism - the concept that everything about our physical and mental make-up can be identified by reference to our DNA - is a most dangerous road.
We will be under pressure to use the technology to 'normalize' humankind by selecting only those characteristics and traits which reflect some ideal notion of humanity.
We risk creating a 'monoculture of mankind' .
It is a feature of our obsession with technical progress that if we have information and new techniques, we must use them.
It is true that we cannot unlearn knowledge, but in a mature society it would be good to think that we can exercise a high degree of responsible choice over what we do with it.
Put simply, even if we can do something, should we?
As politicians we have a responsibility to pose the questions and to suggest answers but the implications of human gene technology reach into every corner of people's private lives.
These are not matters which the European Parliament or the Council of Europe can simply pronounce upon from on high.
They are matters which require the consent of society.
The report calls for the widest possible public debate and participation in order to form a consensus.
This debate should take place before, not after, we produce a statement of what is right and what is wrong.
I believe that we have only just begin to scratch these issues and although this report defines some of the ground, it is a long way from producing an ethical and philosophical framework which will guide us into the next century.
For all these reasons, it was of paramount importance for the European Parliament to take up a position on this subject - even though I was not unreservedly happy with every point in the report.
The disappointment at the fact that, once again, we stand without a voice before a subject on which we should have been heard loud and clear is consequently great.
And I do not understand the reasons why those colleagues, particularly from the ranks of the PSE, who voted against it, have denied this House a critical standpoint on the draft Bioethics Convention of the Council of Europe.
As a result, the convention has gained validity, and the painstaking detailed work to improve it has suffered a grave setback.
Despite this, that work will continue.
