Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank Mrs De Esteban Martín for all her hard work over the last few months.
I hope - and this is repeating the call she herself has just made - that Parliament will now be able, this year at least, to adopt a report on the human rights situation in the European Union.
We failed to do so last year because our discussions were far too ideological, and we lived to regret it, because the House really has no place discussing and passing resolutions on human rights violations outside the Union when it cannot even draw up a report on the situation within the Union because it is unable to agree on a definition of what human rights are.
I should therefore like to stress that the report as it now stands - thanks once again to Mrs De Esteban - is very much in line with my group's ideas and is something that we can broadly subscribe to.
We are most grateful to the rapporteur and the committee for adopting it.
The fact is that as we go into the twenty-first century, we need to set about extending the traditional 18th- and 19thcentury concept of civil human rights to include a number of basic rights which are of fundamental importance to people in Europe and throughout the world.
There are rights associated with the environment, because the inviolability of man also involves environmental considerations.
There are social and cultural rights which advanced societies such as ours in western Europe should be able to guarantee.
These are all ideas which should be included in the report as new perspectives generated by our discussions.
We hope that our colleagues in the PPE Group in particular will support the rapporteur, who has suggested in her report that we should work together to try to extend the concept of human rights, whilst still carrying out our traditional review of the human rights situation in the European Union.
You would be playing a vital role in ensuring a majority for the report, on which there is already broad agreement, rather than its rejection, which is what the result might be if you voted against it with the extreme right.
We must not allow a repetition of the events of last year, when the human rights debate foundered because the extreme right used their votes to prevent the House from adopting a report on the human rights situation.
Or do we really want to allow people who sit in the House but should really be in this report to determine how the human rights debate in the European Union should develop?
Do we want to let Mr Le Pen, a racist and fascist extremist, have a say in how the human rights debate is conducted?
He can try to sue everyone who calls him a racist and a fascist in France.
He is welcome to try to sue me.
That is what he is!
The far right-wing parties in Europe are trying to use the kind of fascism we saw in the 1920s and 1930s to appeal to people's baser instincts and to bring the oppressed minorities even further under the yoke.
And these people are sitting here in the House voting on this report.
It is up to you, the members of the UPE and PPE Groups, to help us to ensure that this rabble are not given the opportunity to decide what human rights should be in the European Union.
That is why we welcome this report as it stands.
We intend to vote in favour of the amendments we have tabled, and some of those proposed by Mrs De Esteban.
I am addressing my colleagues from the conservative groups when I say that I hope we have finally found a common platform on which we can conclude the human rights debate in the European Parliament with dignity.
