Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the long-term goal must inevitably be for all Member States to take part in monetary union, and in that respect there is no conflict with the goals of greater economic and social cohesion.
Problems are more likely to arise in the short to medium term, if one acknowledges the possibility that employment might be adversely affected in countries which are not yet taking part in monetary union.
On the other hand, such short- and medium-term considerations may well have to take account of distortions or even disruptions of the internal market.
It has to be said, however, that adverse effects on employment certainly do not occur in one direction only.
We experienced this in Austria when, in 1995, our Italian neighbours devalued the lira.
It was not the case that adverse effects on employment were immediately felt in Italy - far from it.
Austria, a country with a hard currency, was the one to suffer, when millions of schillings' worth of purchasing power poured into Italy from Austria.
All I am saying is that there is no one-way street here and no automatic response, but that the effects are of many kinds and must all be taken into account.
I therefore believe that it is illogical at this stage to discuss the basis for monetary union and to ask whether the convergence criteria are correct or, as you mentioned, whether or not we need a new European industrial policy, and the inclusion of employment in the Treaty.
None of this goes far enough.
Our number one concern must be to forestall any distortions in the single market by creating a new European monetary system - an EMS II - which seeks to keep real exchange rates within a certain range.
Secondly, when overhauling the Structural Funds, I think it is important to focus on projects which are needed in order for countries not yet taking part in monetary union to meet the convergence criteria.
And thirdly, private investment must be stimulated, since this alone can create truly secure jobs.
