Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I also see this piece of work, the Green Paper on innovation, for which I express my special thanks to the Commission, as an important contribution to the urgent and intensive discussion on the preservation and securing of jobs.
This problem is currently the main concern of the European Union.
Jobs will only ever be secure if we establish ourselves in a leading position in the technologies of tomorrow.
In this respect, I believe that three particularly important points are made in the Green Paper.
First of all, there is the dissemination and exploitation of research results.
This process, which we sometimes rather indiscriminately call 'technology transfer' , is still inadequate in many areas, even in those fields such as biotechnology where the division between basic research and product development is often very blurred and fluid.
For that reason, we call for more interaction between the Innovation programme on the one hand and the specific research programmes and Commission policies on horizontal dissemination of research results on the other, as well as for the development of a methodology involving the cooperation of all bodies responsible for the dissemination and exploitation of research results, both horizontal and vertical, in order to identify models for the more rapid conversion of research results into marketable products.
In addition, it is naturally essential that research findings should be presented in an informative and intelligible manner to the general public and that a technology culture should be promoted.
At the same time, I am aware that these two efforts cannot be centrally directed but must come from below, so to speak, beginning in school.
Secondly, in the European Union we have 15 research policies, many of which are formulated in isolation.
If our innovative capacity is to be enhanced, closer cooperation at national and Union levels is necessary.
It is also important that the dynamic balance between two factors is preserved, namely the coordination of activities and promotion schemes on the one hand but also the necessary competition for the best solutions on the other.
This necessary competition is not simply a matter of duplicated effort at twice the cost but also releases creativity and ideas for the future, and they are just what we need!
