Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the outcome of the conciliation procedure can be viewed in various ways.
For me, the glass is not half full: it is more than half empty.
An overall assessment must be made, and I believe that, for a number of reasons, the legitimate expectations of the citizens of Europe have not in the least been fulfilled.
The listing of the priority projects in Annex III is partly not meant seriously by the Council - please listen, Mr Farthofer - partly overtaken by events, and partly incomplete.
It is partly not meant seriously because neither the Austrian nor the Italian Government is prepared to provide the necessary resources for the genuinely European project of the Brenner Tunnel in the next few years.
They will not provide the resources!
I agree with you, however, that it is a disgrace that the European Union has not included the extension of the West-East high-speed train via Karlsruhe to Munich and Vienna, with a continuation to Budapest.
That is why I regard this listing as completely unacceptable.
It is no surprise, however, that it has been incorporated in the text in this way, since the Council was not prepared to negotiate seriously with Parliament about the list of priority projects and to take a joint decision.
As previous speakers have already explained, the Council simply said that we should refer to the Essen list.
Unfortunately, the majority of Parliament's delegation was satisfied with that.
In my view, that is completely unacceptable, firstly since the Council - or at least the majority in the Council - has denied Parliament the right of codecision conferred upon it by the Maastricht Treaty, and failed to agree to a single paragraph of Parliament's relevant amendments and additions.
And, secondly, the Council has failed to provide the citizens of the Union with a clear and honest decision as to which are, in that case, the priority projects that are soon to be launched.
According to the statements by the President-in-Office of the Council, the Essen list is henceforth fixed and immutable, and thus we have allowed ourselves to be deprived of the right of codecision on these essential projects.
However, let us move on from the institutional questions.
A second point of criticism concerns the fact that, at the recent Florence summit, the majority of Member States made it clear that they have no intention of following up their fine words with deeds.
The Member States' governments neither agreed to make additional resources available for the development of the transport network through the redeployment of funds in national budgets, nor even took the fundamental decision to release further resources through the transfer of funds in the Community budget.
Whilst we repeatedly remind our citizens that 95 % of the finance for these European transport projects will come from national budgets, including loans and private-sector transactions, and that only preliminary studies, interest rebates and small subsidies will be funded from the Community budget, it is becoming clear that the Member States' governments wish to content themselves with merely designating priority projects - on the basis, moreover, of the 1994 evaluation.
Parliament should not lend this political manoeuvring by the Council the appearance of success through its consent in the conciliation committee.
Our citizens are expecting that, following the decision on the transEuropean transport network, work will now actually begin on the construction of the genuinely priority European projects in the near future.
Only in this way will it be possible to combat the impending collapse of transport systems, enhance the safety of transport users, reduce environmental pollution and contribute to job-creation and growth.
However, none of this is contained in the compromise, and I can therefore only agree with those colleagues who say that it should be rejected.
