Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are indeed having a debate here.
And that is why I now have the chance, for the first time, of taking up Mr Bangemann's final words and turning round this privilege to some extent.
Clearly, Mr Bangemann, we have the same preferences in terms of what we do not particularly enjoy watching.
The key political difference between us, however, is that both Ms Tongue and myself, like the committee, take the view that the European system of public service broadcasting should not be developed backwards so as to resemble the American PBS, with all the rest of the market being served purely on a commercial basis.
That is where the political difference lies.
For this reason, public service broadcasting must also be in a position to offer something across the range of sport and entertainment.
This means that public service broadcasting - I agree with you - must engage in competition, but it must be able to do so on equal terms.
So the Commission, for example, should not prevent the rights to sporting events from being purchased jointly and on a pooled basis, through the European Broadcasting Union.
If each of the national public service organizations had to bid on its own against the big combines - and Ms Tongue referred to the example of the two World Cups in football - then the game would be over once and for all, with public service broadcasting on the losing side.
To enable competition to take place on equal terms, including the financial conditions, the Commission must therefore make it clear that the funding of public service broadcasting through fees paid by the users and/or some form of mixed financing does not contravene the aid provisions of the Treaty.
It must also be clear that public service broadcasting has full access to new technologies.
And a final word to Mr Hoppenstedt: the problem was not the insistence that any new services should automatically be classed as broadcasting.
It was he who prevented a possible compromise from being reached on a sensible basis, but perhaps we can still put that right at second reading.
