Mr President, I have to tell you the bad news that I am also deputizing for the author of the report, Mr Elles, who is supposed to be introducing the joint Elles-Miranda report.
Since Mr Elles cannot be present, he has asked me, as chairman of the Committee on Budgets, to introduce his report, but the debate on that report had already started before I was able to reach the building.
I should therefore like, before I go on to give my comments as a representative of the Socialist Group, to make three comments on behalf of Mr Elles.
You have seen how good the cooperation is between the Christian Democrats, the Socialists and all the others in this Committee on Budgets.
The first comment is that I should point out that this budget makes a spectacular repayment, which might have been even bigger if we had not had to take BSE into account.
Therefore all the balance sheets and calculations that are being drawn up in the Member States on the subject of the net-payer function will now have to be scrapped.
Because with this repayment, which amounts to more than ECU 9 billion, my country alone will receive 28 % net paid back into its national budget, or 28.2 % to be precise.
And this applies to all the other Member States as well.
Therefore the balance sheet will not be correct until these repayments, which are not one-offs, but will also play a role in future years if spending develops as anticipated, are taken into account, and a balance sheet is drawn up on the basis of this repayment.
Secondly, I should point out that the rapporteur is very anxious to expressly draw attention to the fact that, following the Council's decision on the MEDA, TACIS and PHARE programmes, to delete the expanded comments which were intended to make it possible to evaluate the projects being carried out in these countries, we disapproved of this deletion of the comments and therefore the rapporteur has proposed that they be reinstated.
Therefore - and I shall explain this tomorrow before the vote takes place - there is a mistake in the motions that we adopted on Monday, namely an expression in brackets, in which the headquarters is named.
This was not intended, but we shall correct the mistake early tomorrow in the various language versions.
Thirdly, I am to point out that the apportionment of resources between 14 or 15 Member States - as Mrs Ghilardotti has just explained - is not in line with this House and with the ideas of this House.
We have therefore thrown the ball back to the Commission, by drafting two budget lines, one for the 14 Member States with a p.m. and one for the 15 Member States with the total figure in the column.
We have amended the comments accordingly.
However, I would like to make one thing clear.
We could have made things so difficult for the Commission that it would have had to ask us if it thought it should have entered a figure in the p.m. column.
Then we would simply have put the p.m. column into another chapter, and then there would have had to be a transfer from chapter to chapter, with the corresponding transfer of resources by us.
We did not want to go that far - we trust the Commission.
And therefore we put the p.m. column in the same chapter.
But we expect that the Commission is very much in line with the new comments, which no longer make any reference to the Directive on joint works committees, or to the Euro-Works Commission, but make it clear that we carried out this activity at a time when there was neither a social protocol nor a Directive on Euro-Works Committees.
We therefore expect that this will be taken into consideration for the 15 Member States in the corresponding column.
Now, as speaker on behalf of the Socialist Group, let me just make a comment on the accusation levelled against the Socialist Group by Mrs Müller.
Mrs Müller, I should like to say to you quite clearly, that we are now standing, in fact, at a critical point in the development of the Community's spending policy.
And it is just resorting to cheap polemics to try to give the impression that the great Group of Socialists in this House is of the opinion that we should not support the proceedings before the Hague Tribunal.
The Hague Tribunal is an organ of intergovernmental cooperation.
It is run by those who are responsible for the intergovernmental financing of this undertaking.
We in this House - and that includes your group, Mrs Müller - have always emphasized the fact that we only participate in matters in which we as the Community have decision-making powers.
And this is the difference between, for example, financing projects via Echo for the UNHCR, where we have the final say as to whether we are prepared to make these funds available, and a case like the present one, in which, if we leave the door open for the financing of intergovernmental organizations where we would be making our contribution in the form of a blank cheque, in which case we would be doing precisely what we are constantly accusing the Council of doing, and what has now proposed again as a transfer of resources, in which the OSCE is to be given a subsidy of 3 million, without the competent staff of the Commission having to change anything, except for the handing over of the cheque.
Yet this cannot be the purpose of our work.
Therefore we have said that we are against this amendment, not because we do not want to support the work, but because we do not want to open this door any further.
I will immediately support you if, in your amendment, you demand that we should invite the Member States of the European Union to make the necessary resources available intergovernmentally, so that the Hague Tribunal can carry out its work properly.
I believe that this is an invitation that the whole House - or my group at any rate - will support.
