Mr President, today's debate is turning more and more into a debate about the way the European Union sees itself.
Is this Union a common organization for gaining new markets in third countries?
If that is the case we obviously have a pretty successful Turkish policy.
Or is it also and above all the endeavour to create a more deep-reaching common European system of values, not only in the Member States of the Union but outside too?
If that is the yardstick then - and I believe the Council and the Commission should admit that - we are standing before the ruins of a totally failed Turkish policy.
Our expectation that Turkey, if it could somehow or other be brought into a closer relationship with the Union, would presumably move in the direction of a democratic constitutional state, has been disappointed.
Anyone who has eyes to see must acknowledge that.
We all remember, as many other speakers have said, that at the time Mrs Çiller tried to obtain agreement to the customs union by arguing that this was the only way to check fundamentalism.
Today this same Mrs Çiller is playing the part of breakfast-time foreign policy director to Mr Erbakan, who won the elections.
And it is presumably she who will then have to defend the possible wishes for a revision of the customs union, as announced by Mr Erbakan, before the Union.
An enviable role for this most changeable lady!
And it was this alleged guarantor of democratic progress who, as has been said, then gave 65 million Turkish lire from a secret government fund to the infamous Grey Wolf fascists to finance their punitive expedition to Cyprus, where they killed two innocent and unarmed demonstrators.
In Turkey they continue to torture, murder, close down newspapers, raze Kurdish villages to the ground.
The opposition, and not just the Kurdish opposition, is blocked, people are imprisoned on the flimsiest of pretexts.
The old and the new rulers bear equal responsibility for that.
I do not believe that we can regard them as honest partners although we still wish to accompany and if necessary escort Turkey along the road towards becoming a democratic constitutional state.
We must say that we cannot work with these partners and that on the contrary, without wanting to interfere in Turkish politics, we have to strengthen those forces that represent an alternative, that genuinely offer a guarantee that there is democracy in Turkey.
Consequently: no funds to go to this government and its projects, but funding when it is a question of supporting democratic projects, civilian projects.
