Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this agreement represents a great opportunity both for Israel and for the European Union.
I would single out two areas in particular: Israel has a world lead in the field of computer security and anti-virus technology.
Israel also points the way in the production of educational software.
Several multinational software houses maintain research and development establishments in Israel.
As a member of both the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, I have a strong interest in the link between research and education, training and continuing education.
The particularly favourable position of Israel as regards educational software, which I have referred to, represents an ideal field of cooperation for the European Union.
This sector, which is so important to training and continuing education in the future, more than any other offers a suitable field for combining the aspects of research and education in a very concrete way.
The Task Force on Multimedia and Educational Software, set up by the European Commission, has already taken on a supporting role in relation to possible projects in this field.
Representatives of both the Government and companies in Israel are already taking part in meetings of the Telematics Committee of the European Commission.
Israel is also participating in the preparations for joint projects.
The Task Force is further planning to initiate joint workshops during the current year.
The second field is biotechnology.
In this field too, which is of outstanding importance to Europe, Israel has made great advances.
Europe can only benefit from cooperating in this area with Israel, which is particularly active in fields such as seed production and environmental biology.
I particularly welcome the intention of the rapporteur to bring about regular contacts between the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy of the European Parliament and the Economic Affairs Committee of the Knesset, whose area of concern covers research.
This would provide the means for efficient monitoring of the cooperation and for the evaluation of results with the aid of the European Parliament's Science and Technology Option Assessment (STOA).
