Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the issue of the so-called leghold trap regulation is a never-ending saga: this is episode five, if we are counting in years.
Why is that?
Could it be that we took the wrong approach in trying to exert indirect influence, through legislation, on activities which quite justifiably meet with our disapproval?
Events would seem to support that conclusion.
Since 1991, it has been the position that the regulation was to enter into force on 1 January 1996.
That should have allowed sufficient time to work out the implementing provisions.
Although I was not a Member of the House in 1991, I would point out that the aim was to see more humane trapping standards applied.
In particular, the use of leghold traps was no longer to be permitted, and rightly so.
But the regulation has failed to meet its objective in this respect.
Of course, there are various reasons why it has failed and I shall go on to analyse those reasons briefly, one of which I have mentioned already.
A dilemma then arose.
By the end of the year, no implementing provisions had been drawn up, so they could not be applied.
At this stage, the Commission submitted a fresh proposal.
It is my view that this proposal cannot possibly be approved, for a number of reasons.
For a start, both the timeframe and the objectives are very vague.
On the basis of such a regulation or proposal, negotiations could go on forever and I think that cannot be in our interest.
What is presented in this regulation is an over-simplification.
Mr Pimenta, who courageously and quite rightly chose a different approach, therefore has my best wishes.
This is an approach that we can support, although I make no secret of the fact that we have different views and expectations on certain points.
Let us consider the situation of the native peoples, especially in Canada.
Mr Pimenta does indeed mention the figure of 1045 people, the fact that wages are low, and so on.
But there is another point that we must bear in mind: in the areas where these people work and hunt, there are no species which are threatened with extinction.
There are no problems with conservation and the environment.
The people are adamant that their areas should be preserved and protected from so-called 'industrial progress' .
Now we come to the anomaly in our approach: we are creating a situation in which a people who strongly defend the causes of animal and environmental protection - causes which we support - are suffering because of us, and may lose their livelihood.
We therefore have a duty to take account of the native peoples and what they require to make their living.
The regulation does take account of these factors to some extent, and we have tabled some amendments which should improve the position.
I hope that they will also have the support of the House.
We do not agree with the rapporteur, however, that the implementing provisions themselves should be included in the regulation.
That is the Commission's task, which is for it to perform.
So we would remove the items in question, but I have to stress that this does not mean that we disagree with the way they have been formulated.
Basically, all the Commission has to do is copy them out.
However, we believe that their inclusion here would require the House to consider every change in detail, and we do not have the time.
We ought to bear that in mind.
It is a job for the executive, and in principle that means the Commission.
If we bear that in mind, we may find the best way to proceed.
The working party is still seeking to establish standards, and however illusory these may be, they have not yet been ruled out.
Where do you draw the line between humane and inhumane methods?
Perhaps the working party will eventually come up with an answer to that question.
