Mr President, this report is a most timely one, in that immediately prior to the April meeting of the IMF and the World Bank, it once again calls for an improvement in international monetary cooperation.
The embryonic reforms of the international financial institutions have not been enough to establish an effective early-warning system, to ensure better intergovernmental harmonization, and to involve not only the G7 industrialized nations but also other countries in institutionalized cooperation.
It is therefore right to make these calls now, in view of the globalization of markets and the weakness of cooperation in this area between the governments of the major industrialized nations, as well as the technical advances in communications and the massive increase in capital movements, only 4 % of which are accounted for by the real economy and real trade.
It can thus be said that a new Bretton Woods system is even more urgently needed now than was the case when it was originally introduced.
We are all aware that such a system is no longer possible today, but because the rules of the game have changed, I believe, like my colleagues and the rapporteur, that European monetary union could allow us to apply some kind of plan for target zones or even improve monetary cooperation in this direction, once the euro becomes the second international reserve currency, since it will then be easier to see the true value of this currency.
Because after all, as the report makes clear, the US dollar accounts for 60 % of world currency reserves, which in no way corresponds to the importance of the US economy.
The European Parliament has already quite rightly called on the Commission several times to produce a white paper on monetary developments.
Today we are going further, and also asking for an assessment of the effects of monetary union on the stability of the international financial system.
This is particularly important now that there are new financial instruments on this market which can influence monetary planning, for example the blueprint for the future European Central Bank, since these new financial instruments will mean that it becomes harder to assess and manage the money supply than has hitherto been the case.
I therefore believe that we are quite right to call on the Commission to carry out further studies in this area.
What is most important of all, however, is to establish a UN Economic Council along the lines of the UN Security Council, in order to institutionalize monetary cooperation.
Clearly, it will otherwise be impossible to reconcile the different economic and financial interests of the large industrialized nations and the threshold countries, and this must be done if monetary policy is to take due account both of the requirements of countries and their peoples and the need for financial discipline.
