Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to the vote on the reports by Mr Lehne, Mr Ford and Mr Linzer.
By agreement with those gentlemen, as the rapporteurs, with Mr Marinho, as chairman of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, and with Mr Rothley, as acting chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs, I wish to request referral back to committee pursuant to Rule 129(1).
Under that rule, I can make such a request before the final vote.
Let me explain briefly why I am doing so.
All three of these reports deal with the implementation of freedom of movement in the European Union, which has been a fiasco and requires a great deal more discussion, though unfortunately we have no time for that discussion now.
However, what is scandalous - and it is a slap in the face for the Commission and for Parliament - is the behaviour of the Council in the last few days.
While Commissioner Monti has taken some welcome initiatives to expedite the implementation of freedom of movement, and while Parliament has been involved in consultations and produced reports on the subject, the Council, in the midst of this consultation process, is about to embark on a procedure under Article K.4 of the Treaty on European Union which is intended to replace parts of the present Monti initiatives.
This is simply outrageous because, to quote Mr Monti himself, speaking this morning, ' There is a danger...' - we are not familiar with these Council documents, or just a few of us are, so I can only refer to the words of the Commissioner, who apparently knows the documents - ' There is a danger that internal frontier controls will become compulsory again' .
It is his opinion - and I quote - ' that the Council initiative which is now being taken threatens to damage progress towards the implementation of freedom to travel' .
If that is the situation, how can the House take a meaningful decision on the Monti initiatives which it knows about, when at the same time we learn from the Commissioner that the Council is unwilling to acknowledge everything we decide here, and plans instead to take its own measures, as it pleases, on the basis of Article K.4 - in other words without the Commission and Parliament?
We cannot allow that.
The Council must be told here and now that democracy means the rule of the people.
Rule by secret cliques is called bureaucracy, and we must reject that unequivocally.
That is why we wish to have the opportunity of postponing the decisions on these reports until the September part-session: we would then have the chance, on 9 and 10 September, at a joint meeting of the Committee on Legal Affairs and the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, to ask the Irish presidency what it intends to do and whether it will drop this outrageous plan.
I would ask you to support my motion.
