Mr President, Mr Dini and Mr Santer, as trustee for the common good the current presidency of the Union can formulate initiatives but as captain it cannot be better than the team as a whole.
Yet in my view one of the welcome pro-European signs is that in spite of internal political difficulties, elections and at time changes of government, the last three presidencies, and Italy too now, have made considerable efforts to achieve a common Europe in their capacity of both captains and trustees.
That shows that the awareness of trusteeship can be a mobilizing force.
I would like to compliment you today, President Dini, and thank you in particular for the Italian ministers of energy who have energetically brought the single market a good step forward.
It is still incomplete in four areas, namely internal controls, fiscal matters, monetary affairs and the energy market.
There we have neither a single market nor a uniform situation, and considerable progress was made there.
Consumer rights may have been enshrined in the Treaties for 39 years, but have also been disregarded for 39 years.
For eight years we have been discussing how they can be translated into money and in the run-up to the Florence summit the energy ministers made considerable progress.
The customers may not all have been given freedom of purchasing choice in relation to a specific type of energy, which is why the number of consumers with the right to purchase differs from one Member State to another, but the direction is right and of course clever business managers have long since quietly adjusted to this situation.
The degree of market openness in the individual European markets will be the same.
No-one is prevented from being more open.
That will make them sure that this openness will not be abused unilaterally by an escape clause.
It is also important to know that services of general economic interest can be provided and that distributors are also involved in the competition to the extent that their customers are involved.
Overall, the consumers are acquiring more rights, which is something we must also tell the citizens as consumers.
The fifteen individual markets can grow closer together and I agree with you, Mr Dini, when you said the Union is becoming more competitive.
Seen in those terms, 1 January 1999 will be doubly important.
I hope that will be the date not only when monetary union enters into force but that it will also be the date when the energy market that has been decided on can enter into force along the lines I mentioned and that a consumers' union will gradually come into being in the energy sector.
