Mr President, unlike Mr Metten I believe that Mr von Wogau has produced an excellent report.
Those who know its history know that you personally, Mr Metten, had problems coordinating the three sections, which is why the chairman of the committee had to take over.
Unfortunately Parliament has nothing to do with the tax questions and nothing to say on them.
The less we say have to say - that is my impression - the more we quarrel on specific questions.
Regional and economic interests are dominating this debate.
Basically the three sectors of mineral oil, tobacco and alcohol taxes do not go together since the regional interests involved are so different that they ought really to be treated separately.
Taxes on alcohol are certainly a source of dispute, but there is one principle that applies in the European Union: the alcohol producer countries generally have lower taxes and the consumer countries generally have higher taxes.
If the British and Irish tax their whisky too high, that is their problem and not the problem of the producer countries that do not want to impose taxes on wine.
Second principle: the relationship between taxes on alcohol and alcoholism is obviously not such that lower taxes lead to a higher rate of alcoholism and high taxes to a lower one.
The example of Finland and Sweden - high tax and high alcoholism rates - prove the opposite.
So there is no direct link.
Third principle: wine surpluses and higher rates do not go together.
If we spend DM 1 500 million a year to get rid of the wine surpluses and then want to restrict consumption, there is a risk that we will go off course.
It has been scientifically proven that wine consumed in moderation, half a litre per person per day according to a long-term US study, is good for the heart and circulation, is therefore beneficial.
Projecting that figure, 250 million adults each drinking half a litre of wine a day would mean a consumption of about 440 million hectolitres in the European Union against a production of 135 million hectolitres.
That would be healthier for the individual and cheaper for the European Union and better for a cooperative community than thinking about higher taxes.
