Madam President, as leader of the ad hoc delegation that went to Bosnia to observe the elections I would like to summarize our findings on these elections.
Since there is neither freedom of movement nor freedom of information in Bosnia, this election cannot be measured by our yardsticks.
You will therefore not find the words free and fair in our evaluation.
The opposition parties found it very difficult to draw attention to themselves since they were not allowed to present themselves on television in the Serbian and Croatian area.
That is why the election campaign was one-sided.
On election day itself we found that the polling proceeded without difficulties in the ethnically cleansed areas.
This may have been thanks to the sensible approach of the leading parties or to the absence of the other ethnic group, but it was certainly also thanks to the presence of I-FOR.
The failings we all noted were not as minor as we have heard up to now.
But these failings were mainly the fault of the OSCE, which had the task of preparing for the elections.
The inadequate electoral preparations for enabling the refugees to vote in their present place of residence in the federation for their own home area in what is now the Serbian part of Bosnia led to what were at times chaotic conditions for thousands of refugees.
I saw this with my own eyes.
There were also difficulties for the Muslim refugees who dared to cross what is known as the demarcation line in order to vote in their original home area in what is now the Republic of Srpska.
They were deliberately processed so slowly by the Serbs that many of them were unable to vote.
The way the OSCE registered the voters was incredibly inadequate throughout Bosnia.
Up to 20 % of people were not registered.
This could only be corrected in areas where the voters had freedom of movement to complain to the local election committee.
But the Serbs refused to allow the refugees who crossed the border to do so.
They did not have the freedom of movement to go to the local committee.
But in my view the greatest mistake was the OSCE's decision to add a third option to the two original voting options, namely for voters to vote either where they lived now or whether they lived after the 1981 population census.
Now they were also allowed to vote wherever they wanted.
On paper they could vote where they intended to reside, but no-one had to check that.
That led to nationalist manipulation on all sides and stabilized the ethnic division, as for instance in Brcko where 80 % of Serbs voted although in 1991 this area was almost purely Muslim!
Thank God this will no longer be permitted at the local elections, which were deferred for that reason, otherwise the aggressor would have won right along the line.
We call on the OSCE to learn from its mistakes and to prepare better for the elections at the end of November!
That only some 20 % of expelled Muslims voted in their former home area was also due in part to the fact that they could only vote for a Serbian presidential candidate there.
How difficult they must have found it to elect the direct or indirect perpetrator of the massacres in Priedor or Srebrenica for instance!
On behalf of the EPP Group let me nevertheless say that the alternative to holding these elections would have been the persistence of an intolerable situation in which the dominant national or nationalist parties would have continued to have the say without any legitimation.
These elections may represent the beginning of a possible and necessary democratization.
They could also be the start of a difficult process of rapprochement between the ethnic groups, who still have no peace after nine months of cease-fire, who still feel hostility, hatred even.
But for the first time there will be a democratic opposition, for some people did vote for the opposition.
For the first time there is a state presidency in which the three representatives of the ethnic groups have to share power.
We will see whether that succeeds.
Since all the ethnic groups took part in these elections there is a chance that if they cooperate in joint institutions it will be possible to build up democratic structures and that a civil society can at last develop again.
Of course there remains the risk of Bosnia-Herzegovina splitting apart again, something which the Dayton Accord did not preclude but which it even encouraged by the strict division of the country and the territorial rewards given to the aggressor.
But, ladies and gentlemen, without these elections the risk would have been considerably greater.
If the newly created democratic structures really are to lead to democracy in an atmosphere of continuing hostility - understandable so soon after the end of the war - if the cease-fire in Bosnia-Herzegovina really is to lead to peace, the international peace-keeping force must continue to provide protection and we must maintain our presence and aid.
I agree with the Member who said the aid must be better coordinated.
We cannot have countless organizations working there side by side.
But our Parliament has tied this aid to certain conditions and now we have to ensure that these conditions are met.
We must also ensure that the war criminals are arrested, specifically Mr Karadzic and Mr Mladic.
And if it is true that Karadzic voted in Pale on Saturday, then I can only ask whether that really was consistent with our call for I-FOR to arrest him at the earliest possible date.
