Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first I too would like to thank the rapporteur for her work on behalf of our group.
We are concerned here with humanitarian aid, that is to say, the suffering of many millions of people in the world.
We all know that the money from this budget line cannot in itself reduce all the suffering in the world let alone eliminate it completely.
That is why I would like to use this opportunity to point out once again that we must remove the roots of the suffering and the roots of the humanitarian problems by pursuing an effective foreign and security policy that regards peace and the prevention of military conflict and respect for human rights as the primary objective.
A final decision must be taken on this at the 1996 Intergovernmental Conference, and on the abolition of the unanimity rule.
On the other hand, of course we must also ensure through long-term projects that the situation in many countries stabilizes and that these humanitarian disasters do not therefore occur in the first place.
Natural disasters will continue to exist, but here too I do not believe that they are acts of God.
As a result of the climatic changes we are already seeing an increase in the number of tornados and the scientists are predicting very definitely that we will be witnessing more natural disasters unless something decisive is done to protect the climate.
That is why the European Union must carry out a much wider-scale preventive environmental policy than before in order to prevent such disasters in future.
On the budget line I take the following view: if we agree that we cannot remove all the suffering in the world just with this money, then that means on the one hand that we must remove the causes.
On the other hand, it means that this money must be allocated especially effectively, because we are dealing here with human lives.
Every Deutschmark that is wasted cannot be used to save human lives.
Moreover, we face the dilemma that we have to act as quickly as possible and that certain control measures, which are necessary or are carried out in other areas, cannot be implemented in this area.
We discussed that at great length in committee and also followed the Council's discussions of this subject.
We really must reconcile these two interests.
The rapporteur herself mentioned that this committee procedure is regarded with some criticism, presumably partly because the European Parliament does not have any chance of participation here.
Of course the best solution would be for us to be just as involved in all the political decisions of the Commission as the Council representatives are, but I do not think that is feasible at this moment.
The alternative, namely to let the Commission decide quite freely here, without being tied by any political instructions, has its dangers too.
Speaking just for myself I must say that some comments made by the responsible Commission officials - I do not mean you, Madam Commissioner - did rather irritate me.
For instance, I did not always receive a confidence-inspiring answer to the question of how to ensure that the money is allocated effectively.
Yet I believe that control is most important in this area too and that the Council has found a compromise that is flexible to the extent that we do not in fact have to wait for years for funds to be granted in cases of disaster.
Our group has therefore decided not to support Amendment No 2 because we believe that it is better for all concerned, including the Commission, for procedures to be laid down and the responsibility to be distributed across several shoulders so that the measures can be implemented all the more resolutely.
