Madam President, it is unfortunately not the first time the European Parliament has had to consider the war in Chechnya in a topical and urgent debate.
After the start of negotiations and President Yeltsin's promises during the election campaign, we had every hope that this bloody and tragic conflict would be ended by a political solution and that actual peace negotiations would begin.
That is what both the Russian and the Chechen people want.
Sadly, however, that hope was short-lived.
One increasingly gets the impression that the lofty promises were merely part of a coldly calculated election strategy.
That kind of thing is cynical and shows contempt for humanity.
The European Parliament cannot and will not remain silent in the face of such conduct.
Of course, we know here that there are plenty of groups on the Chechen side whose readiness for violence is not slow to manifest itself.
But that does not excuse the behaviour of Russian soldiers who turn their guns on Chechen villages and destroy them and whose main victims are, once again, the civilian population.
The European Union supported President Yeltsin politically and materially during the election campaign.
That was a pledge of confidence in advance, which must now be justified politically.
Our message to the Russian President and to Russian politicians is quite clear: Russia cannot be admitted to the Council of Europe and demand the expansion and deepening of relations and cooperation with the European Union and, at the same time, fail to end the bloody war in Chechnya and the continuing violations of human rights, despite all protests, appeals and warnings.
This is also a call to the new Russian Government.
The great majority of Members of the European Parliament are interested in good and intensive cooperation with Russia.
We are doing good preparatory work on this in the Delegation for Relations with Russia, but we cannot continue to do so regardless of the circumstances.
Cooperation is a two-way street, and shutting our eyes or looking away from the bloody events in Chechnya cannot be allowed to become a principle of our policy.
There will be no military solution to this conflict.
I therefore call on everyone concerned, on behalf of the Socialist Group, finally to work seriously for a political solution that justifies the term peace negotiations.
