Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my disappointment to the Commissioner and the President-in-Office of the Council.
I had not really expected you simply to declare your support for something on which, as far as I know, we all agree, but rather to tell us where the money is to come from to implement this memorandum of understanding or, for example, what sort of timetable is likely to be necessary so that the two Chernobyl reactors can be decommissioned.
This debate, regrettably, has reaffirmed something we have observed over the past ten years, namely that the Chernobyl debate is marked by a mixture of strong words and weak actions, by loudly applauded declarations that remain fruitless.
The other RBMK reactors, a total of 15, are still on line, after all.
We know a lot about the sarcophagus, but we are far from knowing how to deal with it.
The only thing we know about the whole business is that we actually know nothing.
Proposals - for which we have paid dearly, I might add - unfortunately abound.
There are risks elsewhere too, as we know, for instance with the more modern VVER reactors that have been mentioned and of which there are a total of 45 different types with varying risk levels; none of them, however, would qualify for an operating licence in our countries.
There are also risks in the irradiated areas of the Urals or in the former nuclear weapons test site in what is now the Republic of Kazakhstan, etc.
It is true that we have provided money; I make it a total of some 600 million dollars given by the West to the former Soviet republics.
However, it is estimated that we should need around 15 to 20 billion dollars to do everything the experts have proposed.
Here too, I can only come to the sad conclusion that the most important lessons of the Chernobyl disaster are that we are hungry for sensations but reluctant to offer solutions and that horror does not translate into help.
This makes it all the more important, to my mind, that at the present time of this tenth anniversary we should not be thinking of some ceremony or other but rather of how this memorandum of understanding can at least be implemented.
It is a package - and let me say this to my honourable colleagues too - it is a package that includes the completion of two VVER reactors.
Anyone seeking to drop this condition is putting a match to the entire package.
We have to be quite clear about that.
(Heckling by Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz) No, no, we must be aware that the removal of this condition means dismantling and destroying the whole thing.
That is just how it is.
I did not negotiate it, nor am I the Ukrainian Government, but anyone who seeks to tamper with it must know that he is giving others an excuse to make the whole thing fail.
That would be extremely regrettable.
