Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do believe that the directive being discussed today at first reading is a very important one.
There still remain a number of professions within the European Union - albeit not many - to which the rights of freedom of establishment and freedom to provide services, as laid down in the Treaty, have not so far been applied.
Lawyers have until now belonged to this category, since there have naturally been restrictions on the practice of the legal profession because of the differences between legal systems.
I therefore warmly welcome the presentation of a directive which will solve precisely this problem, and will in principle grant lawyers the rights enjoyed by all other European citizens in the practice of their professions in Europe.
These provisions are long overdue, and represent a major step forward.
And that is no doubt why the vast majority of lawyers have expressed support for such a directive becoming European law in the near future.
It is, however, only natural - and what else could one expect of lawyers? - for there to be disagreement as to what should be included in this directive, and how the problems should be solved.
Within the legal profession, there has been some dispute about how, but not whether, to proceed.
It has therefore been the task of the committee, and tomorrow it will be that of the House, to resolve this dispute over the approach.
I believe that thanks to the help and the willingness to compromise of everyone concerned throughout the discussions, in particular the rapporteur, the Legal Affairs Committee has produced what is a truly viable compromise.
There were two main points at issue: firstly, whether or not to retain an aptitude test.
Our view here was that in principle a test can be dispensed with, if a lawyer can provide evidence of sufficient practical experience in the country to which he moves.
This was a courageous decision, and one which runs counter to what is to some extent a majority view among both the legal profession and the governments involved, whose opinions will be sought again in the course of the legislative procedure.
The second point was the question of so-called compulsory integration.
Here the Commission originally proposed that after the expiry of a certain period of time, the lawyer must have an opportunity to decide either to become a full member of the local bar or to return home.
The committee decided to abandon this principle of compulsory integration, simply because it was our unanimous view that this is not in keeping with the principle of proportionality.
It is illogical to allow a lawyer to practise in a foreign country for a certain period of time and then, merely because a certain period has elapsed, to tell him that he may not do so any longer unless he applies formally for membership of the bar.
The committee proposes that the House should take a decision on this important point as well.
My group and I believe that it should be possible to find a compromise in the Council on the proposals contained in this report, and that after everything we have heard today from the legal profession throughout Europe, they should be broadly acceptable in principle.
I would therefore appeal to the Council not to block - by failing to act - an important decision in the interest of this group of professionals, but to carry forward this draft legislation in the Council on the lines which I hope will be approved here tomorrow by an overwhelming majority, and to adopt an appropriate common position on this proposal.
In the light of our discussions with the Commission, I take it that the Commission is likely to accept in principle the amendments tabled by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights, even though it has not yet stated its views officially.
But it will no doubt do so over the next few days, or indeed at our sitting today or tomorrow.
All things considered, the PPE Group supports this report in the amended form produced by the Legal Affairs Committee.
The amendments represent a broad compromise between national interests, the interests of lawyers, and also between the different views of the political groups.
