From my personal knowledge of this case, which I have followed from the beginning, I should like to say this: Parliament rightly values the fact that the Commission takes its investigatory duties seriously when dealing with medicinal products, whether they are intended for human use or for animals.
I believe that is important.
There is no doubt that, as a rule, Parliament would rightly criticize the Commission if we were to take an easygoing approach, so to speak.
That is why, when the question arose as to whether this drug should be authorized, I decided that we would first have to wait for the opinion of the scientific committees and the Agency.
I declined simply to authorize it, although a number of documents and attestations were submitted indicating that somato salm was completely harmless.
I hope that you agree with my decision.
The Scottish industry is an important one, and we do not wish to do anything unlawful.
Nor can we simply prohibit a drug if there is no reason for doing so, but we were very careful to observe the procedure, which was as follows: firstly the matter went to the scientific committee, which said no; then it went to the Agency, and we requested more information there.
As far as the Agency was concerned, there was no reason to prohibit this drug, or whatever one wishes to call it.
But because of the scientific committee's opposition, we could not simply authorize it.
That is how the procedure works, and that is why we have to refer the matter to the Council.
We shall do that, and the Council will decide.
That is the procedure.
We are not an elected body - as one of the previous speakers pointed out - but we are very meticulous in what we do, and I believe that such an approach is also in the interests of the Scottish salmon industry.
Furthermore, salmon are continually switching from salt water to fresh water, and from fresh water to salt water.
You are well aware that salmon spawn in fresh water and then move to salt water; then there is a switch back to fresh water when the young salmon reach spawning age.
The transfer from salt to fresh water, or vice versa, is thus a normal part of the salmon's life cycle.
But I have no objection to a drug that may facilitate the process, provided it is not harmful.
That, however, is now a decision for the Council.
