Madam President, I respect your thinking, but I believe it to be wrong.
In such an unusual situation, it is customary for all groups to have the opportunity to put questions on it.
That is what has always happened before, and it is what should have happened this time.
But I shall leave it at that.
I take note of your explanation, and I shall now do as you have suggested and say what I have to say.
Commissioner Fischler, you said that the measures adopted by the British government would be that government's responsibility.
But the result - as you are aware - will be a further increase in that loss of confidence which is also costing the other farmers in the European Union money.
It follows that the measures adopted by the British government are likely to cost money to people who actually have nothing whatever to do with them.
As for Mr Funk's report, we welcome it and we largely support it.
We, too, are concerned with slaughtering cattle and restoring confidence in the market.
The only way we can do that is to make sure, in actual practice, that the consumer does start buying meat again.
And that in turn makes it necessary for our amendment to be adopted, in which we say that this premium should be paid only on meat which can be guaranteed and proven to originate from BSE-free stocks.
The same must apply to intervention, which is now to be preferentially based on weight: there must be proof that the stocks concerned are not BSEinfected, to ensure that, in a year or two, we are not going to bring this meat onto the market again and once again undermine consumer confidence, and so the market itself.
Commissioner Fischler, the elimination of calves is right, but not in the form of the 'King Herod' premium.
Calves slaughtered must first have been able to put on meat, and that meat must then be put on the market.
This is highquality meat, and it must be supported to ensure that it doesn't become more expensive than beef.
This would make it possible to clear the market, but not in the way you propose, by removing the meat from consumption.
Moreover, and this is my last point, the special premiums must also be subject to a limit of 90 animals, so that we have a staggered effect.
This is another motion from our group: as with the normal premiums, special premiums must not be paid on all stocks but only on the first 90 animals.
