Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, what we were promised was open frontiers, unrestricted freedom of movement, and no more controls.
How often have we heard it said that Europe was a single territory?
But that was - and is - a lie.
No other European promise has been broken so often as the promise of a frontier-free Europe.
Now, as we consider three proposals for directives and we learn what the Council is getting up to behind the scenes, it is not the old idea of Europe that is becoming a reality, but the old lie.
The fact is - and many speakers have made the point - that the crucial Article, Article 7a, states in black and white that as from 31 December 1992, the internal market is to be an area without internal frontiers: with no ifs or buts, no restrictions, no so-called accompanying measures, no delays, and no directives that seek to qualify the process or call it into question.
It is now patently obvious that the order of priorities in Europe today is: goods first, then services, then capital.
Those are the only priorities - or if people are a priority, it is only some people, not all of them.
Is this a viable way for Europe to function?
No, it is not, because the frontier-free market must apply not only to prunes and potatoes, but also to people!
Since 1 January 1993, we have been bending an article of the Treaty.
That article is becoming meaningless.
Article 7a is being breached, because controls are still in operation, from London to Athens and from Stockholm to Munich.
The governments of Europe have adopted a take-it-or-leave-it attitude to the old legal principle that pacta sunt servanda .
However, that cannot be our position, nor should it be the position of the Commission.
But in the case of freedom of movement, the Commission has failed to perform its most specific task.
Instead of being the guardian of the Treaties, it runs the risk of becoming nothing more than the Council's henchman.
Moreover, if the collective might of the Council is now being brought to bear in an attempt to instil fear into Europe, if the fear of immigration outweighs the right of freedom of movement, then Europe's spell will be broken, and we shall pay dearly for that!
We are against referral back to committee, because we think it is high time that Parliament took a stand and made its position clear to the Council and Commission.
