Mr President, what message do Europeans have for our almost 18 million unemployed people?
Are we able to solve real problems, instead of simply making solemn declarations?
New jobs in the environmental sector, social services and information and communications technology are not enough in themselves.
Disputes over competence will not take us any further forward.
Only when measures at European level are coordinated with those of the Member States will effective results be achieved.
Jacques Santer's confidence pact on employment in no way impinges on the legitimate aim of subsidiarity.
A chapter on employment in the new EU Treaty will not in fact create a single extra job, but the foundations are being laid for an active policy on employment.
After all, the Commission is supposed to complement, not replace, measures taken by the Member States.
It is therefore not a question of new programmes costing millions, but rather of jointly agreed resources, such as the Structural Funds, being coordinated so as to enhance their effectiveness.
The European Council in Essen took the first real steps by establishing five areas for action.
The Madrid Council then decided to reduce regional imbalances, not least as a means of combating long-term unemployment.
Research and development must be strongly promoted, alongside small and medium-sized enterprises, which provide the bulk of the jobs and traineeships in Europe.
We need more flexible working hours, greater investment in training and further training, the introduction of lifelong learning and more generally a policy of stability.
The convergence criteria and the third stage of economic and monetary union must be adhered to.
As a hard currency, the euro will help to boost investment and to create new jobs in Europe.
The social market economy is and will remain Europe's number one export in intellectual terms.
But both parts must be in harmony: the economic part, with an increase in competitiveness, and the social part, which must never be allowed to fall by the wayside.
Our model is based on consensus, not on confrontation.
The alliances on employment which should be pursued and respect for the interests of the social partners belong in this context.
