Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we start talking about human rights here in our own back yard, as it were, I really do have the impression that there are a good many among us who think the same as the Pharisee in St Luke's Gospel, Chapter 18, verse 11: ' God, I thank thee that I am not - that we are not - as other men are' .
Everyone seems to think that human rights violations always happen a long way away, anywhere except here.
This is a very two-faced view of things: we make a great deal of noise about human rights, but are very selective when it comes to putting them into practice.
Human rights policy here is always primarily a question of protecting interests.
A political theory of relativity seems to apply in our dealings with countries which commit classic human rights violations: the bigger and more important these countries are, the quieter our anger.
It is always - and this brings me back to where I started - easier to condemn crimes in others than to acknowledge one's own wrongdoings, but this is exactly where the question of credibility comes in.
We must all take a long, hard look at just how good the human rights record is in the European Union.
For the sake of our own credibility, we must not just concentrate on defining human rights on paper, as has been done so often in various protocols, conventions, final acts and declarations.
We also need to find out what the situation is in reality, and assess it using a very broad and comprehensive definition of the concept of human rights, rather than a narrow, restrictive interpretation.
So when I talk about human rights, I include the right to a healthy environment, I include poverty and exclusion, I include the rights of women, children, the elderly, disabled persons, homosexuals and lesbians, foreigners and refugees.
The conservatives have scorned this as being what they call a watered-down version of the traditional concept of civil human rights.
So including social and ecological rights is meant to be wateringdown?
This is what the developing countries have been criticized for doing for years: demanding social rights to help their poor and suffering people out of poverty.
But what has Europe been doing?
It is the EU countries themselves which have been watering down traditional agreements such as the Geneva convention on refugees by failing to apply them correctly.
So the main danger for human rights is that they will gradually cease to be binding, not because they have become so all-embracing, but because of the European Union's failure to apply them.
Only if we in the House are prepared to tackle the existing abuses as a domestic policy issue will the annual human rights report be anything more than just lipservice.
I should like to thank the rapporteur for adopting a genuinely broad and comprehensive definition of human rights, and I hope that this report on the human rights situation in the EU in 1994 will now finally be given the necessary majority in the House in September 1996.
