Ladies and gentlemen, the subject area covered by this report is particularly interesting because 1994 was the first year of the new programme planning period after the review of the structural funds regulation.
At that time, this review was intended to make programme planning simpler and less time consuming.
But some of the facts that emerge from the 1994 reports tell a different story and now that we are approaching mid-term in the planning period we should take the Sixth Annual Report as an opportunity to include strategic aspects in the next planning period, for after all - leaving aside agriculture - we are looking at the largest item of European Union expenditure.
So the annual assessments of the structural funding programmes represent a major task for Parliament and in particular for the Committee on Regional Policy.
The Commission report is very comprehensive.
It contains good ideas on how to link up the structural funds with other EU areas, activities and policies.
Yet my group very largely agrees with the rapporteur that in future the procedures need to be simplified at administrative and political level.
After all, we MEPs see day after day and in the field how the complexity of the funds and their complicated administration creates incomprehension and uncertainty among Union citizens and other potential beneficiaries in the assisted regions.
One example is that the responsibility for the three existing funds, whose objectives are not always clearly demarcated one from the other, is in fact shared among different directorates-general within the Commission and a large number of national and regional bodies.
We therefore agree with the rapporteur that this stock-taking in the first year after the review shows that the formulation and evaluation of the programmes and the financial proposals remain just as complicated and not sufficiently transparent.
Secondly: there is a need to improve the situation of all potential beneficiaries of the funds, not least in the disadvantaged regions and peripheral regions, who often receive information slowly or belatedly.
Thirdly: the aim must be to make these programmes more comprehensible and simplify the language, for otherwise we will always have to provide assistants to explain the content of these programmes to those who want to apply for them.
Fourthly: a further outcome of the Sixth Annual Report should be that the Commission changes the criteria and methods of implementing the structural funds, with particular reference to the administration of the resources, in order to simplify the financial transfers.
I am thinking in particular here of the need also to establish more flexible criteria for fixing the level of Community co-financing.
Like the rapporteur, we regret the lack of participation of Parliament in determining the Financial Perspective - for the period 1994-1999 - for the structural funds and emphasize the need for it to be genuinely involved in the forthcoming decisions on the next programme period for the years 2000-2006.
Let us therefore draw overall conclusions from the annual assessments of the structural funding programmes; then reports of this kind will no longer just take stock but also serve as good pointers for future action!
