Madam President, unlike the rapporteur, Mrs van Putten, I do not believe that the proposal before us will bring any improvement.
On the contrary, I think that this could have been one of the last opportunities to put a stop to the international trade in wild plant and animal species which is plundering our planet - but the opportunity has now been lost.
And I think it is all the worse for the fact that the EU is one of the biggest importers and a real consumer market.
After more than four years of negotiations, the Council has adopted a text which departs to a significant extent from the principles of prevention and sustainability.
The only concern now is to plunder and destroy biological diversity.
Worst of all is the present official line that each species has to earn the financial resources needed for its own conservation.
I ask you: what kind of mentality produces such an idea?
Is a living thing entitled to survive only if it can earn money?
Does this mean that owls, parakeets and hawks can only fly about freely now if they carry a cheque book tucked under their wing?
I find such an idea outrageous!
It truly shames civilized people and civilized countries.
Five hundred mammal and bird species and more than 110 species of orchids can now be traded freely in Europe.
And the picture becomes blacker still when I remind you that the decisions we are taking now represent a substantial retreat from Parliament's position in 1993.
This is a step backwards.
That is why I have to propose - on behalf of my group - that we reject the common position.
It will make the situation worse.
It will be no help for us to regulate transport better.
A cage is not a living space.
Before the animals are put into transport, nine out of ten of them have died, and most of the rest perish in transit.
I fear, however, that the House will not be able to bring itself to take this step.
Trade is always the imperative for us now, not sustainability, nor responsibility for the generations that will come after us.
The prime concern is to make money.
That is why, with my colleagues Mrs Graenitz and Mr Pimenta, I have tabled four amendments, and I hope it is the least you can do to adopt them, because they will bring about some small improvement and be some reflection of our responsibility.
Otherwise, I have to say that we will do ourselves no good by approving this common position and adopting this report, because it really will make the situation worse.
We all know that every day, some species of plant or animal disappears for good.
The world is a network in which every element has an important function, and the more we damage this web, the more harm we do to part of ourselves.
We are all interconnected!
