Madam President, on behalf of our group I should like to reemphasize that it was a matter of great importance to us to vote against the trans-European networks.
We consider it absurd to want to fight unemployment by means of expensive showcase projects and to seek at the same time to use the structural funds for that purpose, funds which are actually intended to improve local infrastructures and create jobs.
In addition, it is now undisputed that readiness to finance these crazy projects is declining.
It is also undisputed that their disadvantages far outweigh their advantages.
As the Spanish Minister of the Environment made clear when he addressed our Parliament last year, such enormous central roadbuilding projects make no sense whatsoever, because they concentrate wealth to the detriment of the underprivileged and remote regions, since these transEuropean networks link large population centres which already enjoy a high level of development, these being the only areas in which it pays to engage in such expensive flagship projects.
The underprivileged regions derive no benefit whatsoever from them.
Anyone who suggests otherwise is lying, for Europe 2000-plus has already demonstrated this to be the case.
The underprivileged regions will be further depleted, and their social infrastructure will continue to decay.
This in turn would mean that we should have to inject more structural funds, but these would no longer be available.
In other words, such regions will be cut adrift.
The environmental clause with which Parliament sought to redress the balance in certain respects has been watered down in the compromise.
So the projects as they now stand do not even meet the requirements of the negotiated environmental clause; in other words, the clause is mere window-dressing in which the Council is now engaged.
I am pleased that we shall be voting by roll-call.
And I should also be pleased if the Members did not only have to answer for their vote to the present electorate but also to future generations.
