Mr President, the proposal to introduce a European driving licence in the form of a plastic card of credit-card dimensions is basically a sensible and practical idea for all concerned.
The licence card is actually intended to facilitate the free movement of European citizens and to promote the mutual recognition of driving licences.
But after examining the Council's common position, I cannot help thinking that the Council wants to take systematic action to prevent any progress towards a stronger common identity within the European Union.
Almost every article contains one of the words optional and non-compulsory .
These words, though quite innocuous in themselves, nevertheless mean that it is being left to the discretion of each Member State to do what it wants when it wants.
A directive, however, is meant to establish the framework for a national law, and such a framework should not be turned into an elasticated stretch cover by means of the words optional and non-compulsory .
The common position is indeed a prime example of the Council's inability to arrive at proper joint decisions.
Only when it comes to disregarding the proposals of Parliament does the Council seem able to draw on vast reserves of solidarity.
The Commission's proposal for the optional - and I emphasize optional - incorporation of a microchip into the card was also rejected and has been replaced by a new space on the card.
The basis of the proposal for the credit-card model, however, was the potential controlled use of future information technology.
Through its decision the Council has now brought more bureaucracy and expenditure upon itself, because once the conditions for the introduction of the microchips have been negotiated, the new driving licences will have to be exchanged again.
Strangely enough, the Council, and above all the German Minister of Transport, had rejected ten-year validity in favour of unrestricted validity with a view to saving time and money.
I wonder how mutual recognition is meant to work in Europe on this basis.
If, for example, a German with a card that is valid indefinitely moves to a country of the EU in which a time limit applies, no-one is going to pretend to me that the German licence will be recognized.
The problem must be resolved, even if we have to wait until an action for discrimination is brought before the European Court of Justice.
I take the view that the term 'European driving licence' is a case of fraudulent misrepresentation.
The Committee on Transport and Tourism has adopted four amendments for the second reading.
My group will support them.
The directive, as we know, is due to enter into force on the first of July this year.
We in Parliament do not wish any further delays, for the introduction of the credit-card format is already being used as an excuse, by the German Government for example, for not implementing the 1991 Directive by the prescribed date.
Its stated intention is to wait until the plastic card is introduced.
