Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me first of all to thank the rapporteur, Mr Pompidou, most sincerely on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for a really excellent report, and we shall certainly follow his recommendations.
On the report itself, I should like to say the following: when historians come to write the history of the 20th century, the section covering the last 20 years of this century will probably be headed 'Globalization' .
For many years, indeed, we have seen the economic structure, the financial system and even environmental hazards assuming global dimensions.
It is not only astronauts who see the world as a single entity.
The world itself is developing an increasing number of common visions.
But the coordination of many activities into one global action must not blind us to the fact that continental, national and regional conflicts are on the increase.
Some of them, as you know, are discussed here in the House too.
The Cold War may be over, but real wars, conflicts between groups, regions and states, have not subsided.
In addition, we are increasingly conscious of differing attitudes on to ethics, tolerance and human rights, as well as to environmental matters and technological safety.
These have become more visible, especially against the background of global competition.
Now science - and this is Alain Pompidou's premise - can and must help to bring about a worldwide consensus on values and attitudes, on our relationship with nature, with the animal kingdom, with plant life and with our fellow human beings too - and thereby, I might add, to promote fair competition.
The global scientific society must follow the global economy.
In the same context I should like to refer to a study that was compiled by the Commission a few years ago about the different attitudes of Europeans and Asians to things like the living world and the inanimate world.
Interestingly, it was found that Europeans make a clear distinction between flora and fauna on the one hand and human beings on the other, whereas in Asia, with a Confucian culture, humans and animals are seen as very much closer to each other, and the gulf between them and plant life is far wider.
This is not a purely philosophical discussion; the phenomenon described here has implications, for example in the pharmaceutical industry with regard to experiments on people or animals, and it can even influence the competitiveness of entire continents.
What I mean to say is that it is extremely important for us to develop, nurture and intensify a dialogue between the various cultures on values, on basic attitudes.
Mr Pompidou rightly pointed out that we even have instruments for that purpose, namely the European Technology Assessment Network (ETAN) or the Scientific and Technological Option Assessment unit (STOA), as well as other establishments and instruments which feature in our budget, and I therefore recommend that we do not restrict our conception of broader scientific and technological cooperation to the economic or scientific domain alone but extend its scope into the realm of values, for only in that way can we lay the foundations for a global scientific society.
We shall be supporting the resolutions tabled by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
