Mr President, this is lunacy!
Here we have a five-year-old regulation - a piece of legislation adopted by the Council - and the Commission simply digs its heels in and fails to put through the implementing provisions.
Is this what we can expect to see in future?
Along comes a lobby group - in this instance the Canadian, American and Russian fur industry - and kicks up a big fuss, and we are left with nothing.
If that is the shape of things to come, then we can save ourselves a great deal of work.
I think it is outrageous!
Even more outrageous - and I shall not mince my words here - is the fact that virtually no notice will be taken of the amendments and proposals in Mr Pimenta's report, although they are excellent and have our full support.
And where will we be then?
We might as well shut up shop for half the week, because half our work is not being taken seriously by the Commission.
What exactly do they think they are doing?
I shall tell you another thing.
Over the next year, there are to be talks on humane trapping methods, and humane traps are to be developed.
What rubbish!
There are no such things as humane traps.
Whether or not there is a bit of padding on the teeth of a trap, the animal in it will die a miserable death.
Nor is there such a thing as a selective trap.
An animal cannot read a sign that says 'Lynxes please do not use this trap' !
There are no selective traps.
Protected species also get caught, and trapping is simply inhumane.
If people insist on catching animals, then they should be sensible and shoot them.
Any other method is inhumane.
I fail to see one good reason for supporting the fur lobby, hunting animal species and damaging the environment to the point that they are now almost all extinct.
Damn it all, why should a few people deck themselves out in furs?
There is no call for it.
We must develop a different relationship with the gifts that nature has given us, and that certainly does not mean that we have to carry off the last remaining animal pelts.
As for those who are so concerned about human beings - and I hear endless expressions of sympathy for the poor native peoples - I have to tell them quite frankly that they are hypocrites.
We are shamelessly hypocritical when we import uranium which continues to be mined at the sacred sites of native peoples; when forests are felled and people lose their homelands and we import the wood.
Those are the facts, if you please, and I would ask the Commission seriously if it has any intention of respecting our regulations, or if the situation will simply continue as before, with nothing being done!
