I should like to begin by thanking the House, and in particular Mr Hoppenstedt, for the swift response to our proposal, since in spite of all the differences between your position and ours which came across clearly in the debate, there can be no disagreement on one point, namely that if we do not act quickly, no solution will be achievable - whether it is the one proposed by the House, that sought by the Commission or a compromise between the two - because what Mr Hoppenstedt said was true: our competitors, especially in the USA, are wide awake!
They scored a partial success at the ITU conference.
They are going to invite European companies to take part in the venture, indeed they are already making moves in that direction, but Mr Hoppenstedt was also right to say that the European firms are likely to end up as passengers.
Their share will not be enough to give them a decisive role, and they will certainly not be able to determine the course of events.
There are many possible definitions of a market.
Where there is only one operator, however, there is no market, but rather a monopoly.
The problem with satellite communications, for whatever purpose they are used, is that in place of the public monopolies which existed in Member States in the past, there will now be a private monopoly.
Parliament has repeatedly warned us that while deregulation might break up public monopolies, it could open the way for private ones.
I am genuinely at a loss to understand the tone of the debate.
On the one hand, while we are to remain vigilant, there is thought to be relatively little chance of our competitors turning their lead into actual monopoly positions; on the other, our proposals are dismissed as an understandable but basically unacceptable attempt by the Commission to acquire new powers.
That is certainly not what we are doing, and the selection procedure, which has attracted various comments in the debate, must definitely not be the norm.
It may even be that it is the exception, and we go so far as to assume that that will be the case.
To that extent, we do not regard the arguments which have been put forward here in favour of the amendments as being conclusive.
Of course the House was right to make the point in the debate that satellite personal communications will come under the general 'licences' directive which is soon to be approved.
However, that directive does not address issues of harmonization - which are certainly not covered by individual licences - and nor are there any plans for the coordination of decisions by the individual countries in good time, and that is the crucial factor.
I have always had the greatest respect for Mr Hoppenstedt's contribution in this area, even before I took over this portfolio on behalf of the Commission, but I must be absolutely frank about one thing, and Mr Hoppenstedt knows that it is a point of difference between us.
What Parliament is proposing here with these amendments may well be the position which eventually emerges as a compromise from the Council.
That is quite possible, and we can only hope that a compromise does emerge.
But in terms of tactics and strategy, I think it is illadvised to open discussions with the Council from such a position, and that is why we are against allowing individual national licences which would merely be coordinated.
Such a system will not be in place in time and it will not work, quite apart from the fact that in some cases, Mr Caudron, there are inherent anomalies, for example if every Member State has to issue individual satellite licences.
Luxembourg is a country for which I have the very greatest respect, but I have to query the idea of one or more satellites intended for use in satellite personal communications in the European Union having to be authorized in Luxembourg.
I can adapt to many things, but you must forgive me if I have some difficulties with that.
What I am saying is that we agree with the House on the need for action.
However, I am not sure that the Council will move sufficiently on the basis of what Parliament is proposing here.
Nor do I see why a distinction should be made between systems that use the frequencies assigned to mobile telephony services and broadband multimedia systems, which also operate on higher frequencies.
In terms of regulatory policy, the two categories are quite comparable, and I do not think the difference in use is a justification for separating them.
Let me end by saying that I have felt during this debate as if I was arguing with the Council.
I will leave it to the House to decide whether or not that is a compliment.
