Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, biocides are products that are used in disinfectants or insecticides, to combat grain weevils, for example, and also in preservatives - we have already heard the figures.
It is high time that we established European rules on the marketing of these products.
The European Union, and the Commission in particular, has already taken up this initiative, and I welcome this on two counts: both for reasons of environmental protection and competition - which is so important, because without a level playing-field, we cannot run businesses in Europe.
The Commission's proposal, to my mind, represents a good starting-point for our discussions.
As with the directive on plant protection products, the Commission has dealt with the active substances themselves and the register of them on the one hand, and the question of how biocidal products are to be authorized at national level on the other.
I believe that this division into centralized and decentralized rules meets the needs of the moment, and I am glad that this approach has been adopted here, since otherwise we should have had to take account of too many climatic and hydrological differences within the Union.
My amendments are focused on the definition and in particular the licensing and placing on the market of products containing biocidal substances.
I am glad that Mrs Jensen has supported these proposals, at a time when everyone is talking of Molitor and hence deregulation, leanness and simplification - which I too am in favour of, and indeed who in the House would not support them?
However, there are more and more Members, and even spokesmen for the Commission, who are using Molitor and its ideas as a cloak for environmental dumping.
That is precisely what we do not want.
Of course, we do not have that impression in the case of this report.
I am very glad to hear that the Commission is letting it be known in the lobbies that it will accept our amendments on framework formulations.
What does this mean?
It means that in future, products derived from processes which have already been authorized will have a simpler licensing route to follow.
This is a necessary move towards a transparent approach to trade and the environment.
So I am glad, Commissioner, that we have been able to firm up your proposal a little, and it is now well placed to go on for discussion in the Council and its second reading.
