Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in 1995 we received an evaluation report on the transition from the third to the fourth framework programme.
And at exactly the same time we are moving full steam ahead towards the fifth framework programme.
Unlike the previous speaker I must say that our group can understand why a certain time elapses between execution and evaluation.
However, I really do wonder how we can learn from experience if we plan the future before we have taken a proper critical look at the past.
Surely we should approach things rather differently here.
Secondly, as has been said, but I want to go a step further: the links with the research aspects of other programmes, whether programmes of aid or TACIS and PHARE, or all our cohesion programmes - and much has been said about structural policy today - the links between the research aspects of these programmes and the purely research programmes should be identified more clearly.
This year in particular the Commission has talked a great deal about coordinating the various research policies.
It would be very useful if the Commission tried to begin by coordinating its own activities properly.
It is always best to start at home.
Thirdly: in my group's view, evaluation should not be based on the idea that we continue to go on as before.
We have seen over the years how specific programmes keep being drawn up in the same way because that is how it always was.
Instead, strategies should be defined for improving efficiency and then these same strategies should be reviewed in subsequent programmes and whatever successes or failures emerge should be examined more clearly and in depth.
Last point: I wonder whether we should not as a matter of principle and in view particularly of the fifth framework programme also give some thought to whether evaluation as it currently stands makes any sense or not.
We need objective criteria, comprehensible criteria, however difficult this may be.
Nor do they need to be generally applicable throughout the world, they need only create some sort of continuity for us from one year to another year.
At present each evaluation report forms a separate entity.
There is little chance of comparing them.
To return to the beginning: we can only learn from the mistakes of the past if we constantly re-examine them, and it is extremely urgent that we do so in the context of the fifth framework programme.
