Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I very much welcome the fact that the Irish presidency has emphasized that the Maastricht Treaty not only calls for the achievement of monetary union but also for European union in the fields of economic and social affairs and employment, and so the challenge of combating mass unemployment has rightly become a priority of the Irish presidency.
However, if we consider, analyse and evaluate the economic policy guidelines of the European Union, we really do start to wonder to what extent they represent an appropriate policy mix.
And since rigid monetary policy is not being subjected to critical scrutiny as the European Parliament has requested, I wonder just how monetary policy, along with economic policy, employment policy, structural policy and industrial policy, is supposed to achieve investment-led growth that will create jobs.
This question cannot be answered if we do not also take stock of our monetary policy, which is why I hope that the Irish presidency will step up its efforts to find an answer, because it simply cannot be in the interests of Parliament to speak here of a lax monetary policy.
On the contrary, we have to ask how monetary policy can help to achieve the objectives of economic and monetary union, namely greater growth, sustained growth and above all higher employment levels.
We do not want economic and monetary union to be merely a milestone in our monetary history; we want it to benefit the people of this European Union.
When I assess the underlying economic policy principles, I also wonder how the years that still lie ahead can be used to make it even clearer, by means of the economic policy guidelines, that we need a political strategy at European level for the things we can no longer regulate at national level.
The globalization of markets has not left Europe untouched, and even though the single market and monetary union are appropriate responses to this challenge, there is still a pressing need to establish a framework governing the operation of the social market economy at European level.
I should very much welcome the Irish presidency coming up with a strategy for action in this area as part of its efforts to develop the economic policy guidelines.
In addition, may I also ask the President-in-Office to take another look at the question posed by the European Parliament about how the democratic deficit in the domain of economic and monetary policy can be overcome.
Can we not expect an interinstitutional agreement at some stage, laying down procedures for the multilateral monitoring of the excessive deficit?
What is the Irish presidency's position on this point, which is of great concern to the European Parliament and ought to be resolved at long last?
