Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how much pesticide will the consumer tolerate?
That is the question which the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection had to ask themselves in considering Mrs Breyer's report - a report on four directives on pesticide residues in and on foods and cereals.
In my view, it will simplify administration if everything is dealt with in a single directive, as Mrs Breyer has suggested, and the programmes to reduce the use of plant protection products and pesticides that were mentioned earlier - and are already being implemented in some Member States - can be covered far more easily by a single directive than by four different ones, as the Commission originally proposed.
I think that we really can simplify the administration here.
Now, as you know, I am not a lawyer.
However, common sense tells me that Article 100a, which deals with the internal market, is much more suitable as the legal basis for these measures than the other legal bases that have been mentioned.
What we are talking about today concerns consumers in the internal market.
If we choose the agriculture article, Article 43, we shall exclude some of the people who wish to consume these products.
Article 130s, on the environment, is undoubtedly very important, and this is also an environmental issue, but I think that in this case we should put more emphasis on consumer protection.
The use of plant protection products is certainly an environmental issue, because there is exceptional danger to the environment from an excess of all these products.
We have now received a communication on the protection of water reserves, and there are proposals for a drinking water directive - a directive for the environmental protection of water resources.
I believe that the only honest approach to such directives and limit values for drinking water is to avoid every kind of substance that can find its way into the water from the air or the soil.
Water is a scarce enough commodity in Europe, and we cannot afford to put it at any kind of risk.
I think consideration should also be given to the possible effect that the intensive use of pesticides can have on animal feed, because it is not only the products destined for human consumption that are sprayed, but also many plants that are eaten by animals; and nowadays in particular we have to think very carefully about what gets into the food chain and how.
An integrated approach will produce sustainable development: that is what we all want, and it is already the objective of numerous programmes.
I believe that we shall have to achieve environmentally friendly farming if we wish to see agriculture and the environment surviving in equilibrium.
A balance in nature will also produce a balance in farming, balanced production and balanced demand, and I believe that ultimately we shall also achieve a balance as regards the income of the farming population.
I should like to say, in conclusion, that my group supports the position of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
