Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today's discussion about driving licences is not in fact a major issue.
We are defining the code numbers of a driving licence that is to be applicable Community-wide in future.
So it is not a major issue, but as always it is the small things that cause problems and I would say to Mr Farthofer and Mr Watts that we should be clear in our minds about what we actually want.
At one time indeed some Members of this House wanted a driving licence with time limits.
Then there were some who wanted a driving licence that served as a universal document, if possible also acting as a credit card.
Thank God we have managed to avert all that.
Now we are dealing again with two very specific aims.
First, a European penalty points driving licence is to be introduced.
I can really only warn you against that.
We do not need a central office for the whole of Europe which centrally compiles all the offences that have to be entered in the record of penalty points!
Why do we not leave that to the Member States, where it really belongs!
Secondly, we do not need the possibility of people losing their driving licence for the whole of Europe.
Once again we should not get carried away.
I am not even talking about driving on the left or the right.
What is a tourist from the UK to do if he happens to drive on the wrong side on the first day of his holiday and is therefore committing an offence?
Then he will not be allowed to drive in the United Kingdom either.
If the English are so keen on this, perhaps we should introduce driving on the right there too!
So long as we do not have uniform systems of fines we cannot take away driving licences for the whole of Europe on a uniform basis because the offences that may involve the withdrawal of a driving licence tend to be committed on holiday and not at home.
People seem rather less enthusiastic about that.
I thank the rapporteur for his work and would merely urge Members not to vote for Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 7.
