Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as shadow draftsman for the PPE Group in the Committee on Research, I should like to comment on some of the amendments which secured a majority.
The Bioethics Convention is the first international agreement to give a clear definition of the limits of research and medical intervention in humans and to confirm the rights of the individual in relation to science.
It also guarantees that medical and scientific ethics are respected.
But although every country might be calling for a proper balance between human rights and scientific progress, the different philosophical and cultural sensitivities involved make it very difficult to produce rules which are universally acceptable.
This is evident from the very fact that the title of the convention has been changed to the Convention on Human Rights and Biomedicine.
Biomedical research is not an end in itself, it is for the benefit of mankind.
The preservation of health and the reduction of suffering are high ethical values which form worthy objectives.
It should be made clear that these ethical values are being upheld.
Biomedical research on humans is normally carried out only on those who have been clearly informed about what is involved and have expressly given their consent.
Only in exceptional cases does research have to be carried out on those who are unable to give their consent, mainly in paediatrics, psychiatry, neurology, and in the case of research into age-related diseases.
In such instances, it is often not possible to use people who are able to give their consent, so the tests must be carried out on those who cannot.
If we want to help those suffering from Alzheimer's or Parkinson's disease in the future, for example, we need to be able to do tests on patients with these diseases.
They may be just blood tests, a computer tomography or simple psychological tests, and these really should be allowed.
The problem here is how to distinguish between ethically justifiable tests and improper tests in a legal document which is necessarily very general and inflexible.
Would it not be better for the wording of the convention to be more liberal, and to have implementing provisions which go into possible abuses in detail, rather than for the convention alone to be formulated so inflexibly?
These are considerations which I have covered in my amendments.
On in vitro fertilization, the motion for a resolution says that no more than three embryos should be implanted into a woman in a single menstrual cycle, and that the preservation of embryos should be permitted only in exceptional circumstances if the planned implantation within the cycle is not possible for medical reasons.
This is the same wording as is used in Germany's Embryo Protection Law of December 1990, which Germans have found entirely acceptable.
I would also stress in this context that only research which is for the direct benefit of the embryos concerned is justified, and that consumptive research of any kind using living embryos should be totally prohibited.
We support Mr Pelttari's report and his motion for a resolution.
