Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Herman has covered the main views of our group.
I should nevertheless like to point out once again that his report has of course been modified by the others, so that the main features of our position do not emerge.
I think it is a good thing that Mr Herman has now produced a further report, following a two-year gap.
The situation has changed completely in the meantime.
Two years ago, only a few people wanted to speak on this subject.
Today, many people wish to air their views, and in those two years since Mr Bangemann and his group presented a report, an action plan has been drawn up and many changes have taken place.
I believe it is important that we in Parliament should discuss this question, in order to show the public where the path is leading and to invite them to discuss it too.
Mr Herman called on us to pull ourselves together in order to achieve a specific goal, and the reservations must not be allowed to stand in the way of everything.
The development of the information society represents one of the greatest challenges for Europe.
The new services offer our citizens not only undreamt-of scope for information, training, entertainment and use of a wide range of facilities, but are a challenge for our Member States and for the regions in terms of education in schools.
As has been said many times, we really do have a great responsibility here to connect our schools to the Internet, to provide media education in schools, and especially to do all we can in universities to ensure that teachers are trained in media education.
Nothing is more important than to make children and young people accustomed to using the screen every day, even at primary school level, and to eliminate any anxieties and perhaps fears through this media education.
And it is not just in Europe that initiatives are being launched to connect schools to the Internet: in America, they are already the order of the day.
As rapporteur for the report on trans-European telecommunications networks, I am in fact sorry that we spend a great deal of time talking, but hesitate when it comes to implementing these telecommunications networks and then express a large number of reservations.
I feel it is extremely important - and this is made clear in the report - to bind in the weak areas of Europe, the weaker elements in the Community.
By comparison with our international trading partners, the providers of new services in Europe suffer a number of competitive disadvantages, such as high telecommunications costs, partially inadequate bandwidths for networks and a lack of risk capital, as well as Europe's fragmentation into national markets, which prevents European firms from developing sufficient benefits of scale.
Creating and maintaining a truly European internal market for the services of the information society must therefore be our principal concern.
The Commission has recently presented a communication and a proposal for a directive on the establishment of a procedure for the exchange of data on legislative cooperation regarding services in the information society.
This is a welcome move, since fragmentation into national legislative procedures will put Europe at a further disadvantage.
I see it as extremely important that we should pursue this legislative initiative, so that we can then in fact develop uniform legislation in Europe.
We should at least receive information on legislation in good time, so as not to create unnecessary obstacles.
Finally, during the budgetary procedure, we should definitely reinstate the budget lines which were included for Info 2000 or the trans-European networks, because while we can adopt white papers on employment and make fine speeches here, unless we create the relevant budget lines, the preconditions for the development of Europe will unfortunately not exist and will be obstructed.
