Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have now discussed the question of how extremely difficult it is to implement this much-needed aid in such a way as to ensure that within a short time these people, who have suffered all the atrocities of the war, can be given new confidence, confidence in the knowledge that they are not without protection and that they will succeed in getting the economy going again.
At the same time, as Mrs Pack has pointed out in great detail, injustice and ethnic cleansing continue, to a large extent without the authorities taking any notice, and we, the European Union, are the only ones who have fulfilled the obligations that were agreed on at the Donor Conference.
But we must be careful!
Accusations will not help those people out there who are now waiting for help.
They need economic aid, but they also need psychological help.
We must not leave them alone now, but must try, together, to open up a large number of sources of aid and to show the people - not only those who stayed there, but also the refugees who still hesitate to go back - that the reconstruction of the country depends on everyone lending a hand.
Nor can we divide the population into those who were able to flee in time and are now waiting for reconstruction to get underway so that they can then go back, and those who stayed there and suffered.
We cannot say to the latter, "Start building, ' so that the others will see that it's safe to come back.
I can see the dilemma, but we also know what the results would be.
There is only one thing that we can say with any certainty, and that is that the road to peace is a long one.
We must not get impatient, and we the European Parliament must help the Commission and the Council, not by heaping accusations upon them, but by means of mutual understanding in a difficult situation.
Money is needed everywhere, but at the moment it is needed most urgently there.
We must therefore fulfil our obligations in difficult times as well, and we must not fail.
