Mr President, I regard the fact that a substantial debate is taking place this afternoon on the subject of fisheries as a sign of the importance of Europe's future fisheries policy.
Today's reports relate to waters from the Baltic Sea through the Atlantic to the Antarctic, showing that the fisheries crisis is a worldwide problem.
It is therefore right that we should take a global approach to the problems and how to solve them.
The way in which we manage our fish stocks will show whether or not we are capable of exploiting worldwide food resources on a sustainable basis.
That is the message which we are receiving from institutions such as the FAO; it is the unequivocal message coming now from environmental organizations such as the Worldwide Fund for Nature, organizations which have begun to join forces with some of the world's largest multinational food-producing companies.
The Member States and the fishing industry must heed these authoritative voices.
The seas are being overfished: none of our waters will survive if they continue to be fished so intensively.
There is only one answer - fewer fishing vessels and less fishing effort, and Mrs Péry clearly endorses this approach.
The fishing sector will not emerge from its current crisis unless, on the basis of realistic calculations, the European Union fleets are finally adjusted to match the food resources available in EU waters and beyond.
Restructuring must be accompanied by socio-economic measures.
Even if we cannot offer all fishermen jobs at sea, we should not abandon them.
We must find them alternatives, either in the fishing industry or in another sector.
A team of Community experts, led by the Danish scientist Hans Larsen, has recently made an assessment of fish stocks, and they too have drawn attention to the critical state of affairs.
Mrs Bonino, you have had the courage to present a proposal which is based on a scientific recommendation that the fishing effort should be reduced by 40 %, as Parliament called for back in 1990.
Since 1990, the Fisheries Ministers have approved reductions of 20 %, 25 % and even 0 % - depending on the type of fishery, and a further reduction in tonnage is being made between 1992 and 1996 - but not as much as 40 %.
We are calling on the ministers to hold a credible, down-to-earth discussion on the basis of the scientific report and Mrs Bonino's proposals.
The House has taken the initiative of concentrating on fisheries today, and we have used this opportunity to bring forward some ideas on how to consolidate the common fisheries policy.
Now it is up to the Member States to initiate the action which is required to save the fishing industry in Europe.
