Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Spring, it is very difficult today to speak about the Irish presidency - difficult, because I cannot simply speak about a routine programme of work after all that has happened over the past few days in Northern Ireland.
The business of the day is actually discussion of the Intergovernmental Conference, of economic and monetary union, of employment and environmental policy, of Europol and of internal security in Europe.
But who can simply turn his attention to routine business when the fires are raging in Northern Ireland, when the internal security of Belfast and Derry is threatened in a different and more horrific manner than that of Munich, Paris, Rome or Brussels?
Turning our attention to routine business today would mean sweeping violence under the carpet, refusing to point the finger at its causes and its perpetrators.
It would mean ignoring the systematic violations of human and civil rights in Northern Ireland.
By our silence we also incur a share in the guilt.
How, ladies and gentlemen, am I to discuss the programme of the presidency and move on from there to speak and make judgements about greater closeness to the citizens and about the fight against racism when in my mind's eye I see the pictures of the death of the young Catholic who was buried two days ago, when I see the Irish flag being burned in Northern Ireland, when I am touched by the despair of people in our midst because peace is so far off?
What good is it to speak of closeness to the citizens and civil rights when basic fundamental rights are on the line for the minority in Northern Ireland?
John Bruton has criticized the British Government more vehemently than any Irish head of government before him for the failure of its policy on Northern Ireland.
I should have liked him to be able to speak these words with the same clarity and force as President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, because he is right.
I have demands to make of the Irish presidency in terms of a sustained environmental policy, consistent measures to combat social exclusion, marginalization and unemployment, to promote work and fight poverty, in terms of rethinking the convergence criteria and taking comprehensive action against discrimination.
Responses to all these reasonable and important demands, however, can only develop under peaceful conditions, which is why the foremost priority is an all-out effort to promote the peace process.
And in that you will be supported to the hilt!
