Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bangemann has already ushered in this debate.
What interests me is how he did in that quiz show, at what point he thought of the name and answered the question.
And I am also interested by his attitude to popular music.
I can remember the popular song 'Join us on the yellow waggon' being a great success some years ago, but now we do not hear it quite so often.
Turning to the matter in hand, there is no doubt that everyone here wishes to have the dual system.
In all the countries of the European Union, we need public service broadcasting, and of course private broadcasting as well.
I know that public service broadcasting - in Germany, at least, but in other countries too - was built on the traditions of the early years, and that this founding period was also an important one for the Federal Republic, especially as regards the emergence of a basic democratic order.
As some of you may be aware, for a number of years I was chairman of the Broadcasting Council of the Norddeutscher Rundfunk , so I know the strengths and weaknesses of public service broadcasting.
And who does not have weaknesses?
I have the impression that this report is trying to highlight the position of public service broadcasting at the expense of others.
In my opinion, it will not help us to make progress in future discussions if we launch an attack on private broadcasting in this report at European level.
Things do not have to be done in this way: the important assets of public service broadcasting can be enhanced without resorting to attacks.
The PPE Group has tried to remove the negative tone from this report, and has partially succeeded.
I hope that we shall have some further success.
For that, our amendments will have to be adopted.
Public service broadcasting is not only being discussed in this report.
We also had an intensive discussion as regards the substance of public service broadcasting in connection with the television directive.
And we shall be doing so again.
It is not a good thing that the public service broadcasting lobby is intervening on such a scale, for example with regard to Article 1, that everything which is emerging there in terms of new services also has to be classed as broadcasting in order to be involved on the basis of national legislation.
I think everyone is entitled to be involved, it is simply not right that it always has to be funded, and so I can only give public service broadcasting the good advice not to operate so superficially all the time here.
That does not help any of us to make progress.
We have also discussed the topic of public service broadcasting in the debate on rights to sporting events, on the basis of the own-initiative report by Mrs Castellina.
I said on that occasion too that it is not very helpful for us to create images of an enemy, and to extol public service broadcasting as the only true guardian of broadcasting culture.
The point has already been made that we can see weaknesses in public service broadcasting which need to be eliminated in order to make it strong in two ways - strong in competition with private broadcasters and strong at European level against the background of the discussions taking place worldwide.
We need rules which apply across the board, which provide scope for all the fields of interest in Europe to be developed.
My advice is to take a far more relaxed approach to the subject - and I say this to Ms Tongue in particular - without making the unfortunate experiences in our own countries the watchword at European level.
Nor do I believe that we can deal with and resolve here the problems which exist in Italy, and perhaps in the United Kingdom.
Our concern should be to develop the pan-European dimension, so as to create a sound position for public service broadcasting in the future and ensure that it has the capacity to survive.
I believe we are on the right track, provided we do not create images of an enemy and do not respond to others simply with prejudice.
