Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as a politician I am always pleased when we adopt legislative proposals that officials can actually apply without too much difficulty.
The harmonization of the rules on driving licences can certainly also help ensure that every security officer in the European Union can at a glance implement and check the driving licence provisions applicable to drivers from all the Member States.
It cannot be repeated too often that the harmonized European driving licence will improve the mobility of Union citizens while at the same time contributing to transport safety.
But I do have some doubts about the practical implementation of Directive 91/339.
As from 1 July 1996 all Member States were supposed to implement the provisions on the European driving licence.
But it is only now that we are deciding at first reading on a not inconsiderable component of this driving licence, namely harmonized codes.
If Member States do not want to issue new driving licences every year, it is therefore impossible for them to implement the directive.
So what I would expect of the Commission is that it finally submits consistent proposals for directives rather than presenting us with new piecemeal rules every six months.
For after all it is we politicians who have to explain this to the EU citizens and sometimes also justify it.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for once again proposing the penalty points driving licence system which this House has long advocated.
I know from countless discussions in my home country of Austria how many arguments are put forward against this, including those from drivers' organizations that pretend they are protecting drivers' interests but are in fact totally disregarding the urgent need to ensure safety on the roads.
The example of France has made it impressively clear how the number of road accidents can be reduced by 10 % in the space of one year.
Every 1 % reduction in road deaths should act as a spur.
That is why I would urge the Commission to support the demands set out in this report.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists endorses this report.
The only difficulties are in relation to Article 8.
