Mr President, I too am grateful to the rapporteur for this very well presented and very effective report.
I should like to begin with one or two points of interest: the report contains some introductory remarks which provide information on the deregulation of domestic financial markets, the associated trend towards the globalization of financial and capital markets, and the liberalization of capital movements.
It also states that a free capital market ensures that savings are assigned to the most productive investments.
Some very interesting comments are made in relation to the overvaluation of the US dollar in the international economy, whereby 60 % of world currency reserves and half of all private financial wealth are invested in US dollars, even though the US economy accounts for only 20 % of total production and 14 % of world trade.
This highlights the need for Europe to act.
I certainly do not take the view that Europe's scope for taking action should be hampered by imposing a tax on speculation, as the Greens have once again proposed today: this would be tantamount to double taxation, since profits from such financial transactions will in any case be taxed as profit by the domestic financial institutions.
To my mind, this report contains three important calls: the first is for a financial system to be established which avoids inflationary or deflationary cycles, achieves a healthy balance of payments, and leads to lower interest rates and sustained, high-quality economic growth.
The second call, to curb the predominance of the US dollar, is without doubt justified, and the single currency might be of assistance here.
If all the Member States take part, the convergence criteria are met, and the citizens of Europe put their trust in the new currency, the euro could perhaps become strong enough to act as a third 'international currency' .
It is also important to bear in mind external debt and the developing countries.
I do not think there is any point, in this context, in writing off financial positions as debts which will never be repaid.
Overall, therefore, I think the report is a constructive one: it provides a good starting-point for further discussion in the various European forums.
