Madam President, the rapporteur, whom I also want to congratulate on his first-class work, makes it crystal clear that it is urgently necessary for the Commission to draw up a comprehensive action plan.
Of course the EU can only promote and encourage a change of trend, because of the subsidiarity principle.
The final responsibility lies with the Member States.
Apart from the primary reasons that speak for this action plan, I want to draw attention to the positive effects on rural populations - in relation also to employment.
By promoting regional projects and activities new jobs can be created.
The market in technology for the use of renewable energy sources is a much contested future market precisely because of these circumstances.
This kind of action plan to promote renewable energy sources must contain the following basic features: forward-looking, clear and credible declarations of intent must be made at the highest political level, which the European and national legislators must incorporate into a binding legislative framework.
The objective must be to raise the share of renewable energy sources in primary energy consumption from the present 5.2 % to 15 % by the year 2010, and I believe that this ambitious aim can be a realistic one.
Public corporations should set an example in their investment projects, and that also applies to the European Union's public buildings.
In terms of organization, the European Union should form the many individual responsibilities of the Commission's directorates-general into a uniform policy to promote renewable energy sources.
Existing technologies should be promoted by increasing European investment in third countries, so as not to leave market shares in this promising area to competition.
The budget appropriations for this area, which will have a decisive influence on the future of Europe, must be in reasonable proportion to the sums that have been invested to date in Euratom research on the one hand and the protection of nuclear power stations in need of redevelopment on the other.
