Madam President, the Green Group in the European Parliament has joined in tabling this joint motion for a resolution, since we support the legitimate desire of Taiwan to be admitted to the international community of nations.
Taiwan has made significant progress over the past year towards democratization.
We want to give active encouragement to this process so that further advances will be possible, particularly in respect of human rights, employee rights, equality of opportunity for women and environmental protection.
We think that democratic advances will be boosted by Taiwan's participation in international fora.
No country in the region is threatened by Taiwan.
The Taiwanese Government has for some time taken a serious interest in achieving détente in its relations with the People's Republic of China.
This gave us all the more reason for concern over China's sabre-rattling at the time of the elections in Taiwan.
Next year the currently British colony of Hong Kong will be given back to China.
The handover may prove to be a test-case to determine whether the People's Republic is willing to respect established social and political structures or whether China can only impose its authority by coercion and repression.
The EU should exert its influence on the People's Republic of China in order to promote the process of détente in the region.
This state has long since ceased to meet the criteria for the label 'Red' China as, in economic policy terms, the Peking Government has for years been pursuing a muscular form of industrialization reminiscent of the early days of capitalism.
The European Commission has over the past two years been systematically promoting economic relations with China.
It should now develop its cooperative links with Taiwan.
A first concrete step would be to open a European Union information office in Taipei.
This step, which would be a very important gesture in signalling the European Union's interest in the development of Taiwan, should be taken as soon as possible.
I hope soon to get an answer from the Commission which will give the lie to the slogan which has become current: MEPs ask questions, Commission gives no answers.
