Madam President, first of all I should like to make it clear that the European Union was the first and last to give help to the countries of the former Yugoslavia in their time of need.
We are on the spot, and we are also active, and that is certainly all to the good.
So what really is the problem?
Right from the beginning the Members of the European Parliament have pointed out that the reconstruction of these countries cannot be assisted by the traditional methods and strategies of the European Commission.
The Giansily report highlights the fact that the current aid comes out of ten different budget headings, and this means that different Commission services are trying to coordinate this aid, using different procedures.
We must also look at this question in the context of the other donors and of coordination with their aid.
I fear that in many cases aid is coordinated without taking other aid coordination measures into account.
So what, in my opinion, needs to be done?
We need to tighten up the financial aid by means of a legal basis which has yet to be created.
That point has already been mentioned.
The Commission must organize efficient aid, and the process must be speeded up.
That point has also been mentioned already.
Because the current procedure, and the current PHARE process - and we have pointed this out on many occasions - is totally unsuitable.
Just imagine: with this complicated process of inviting tenders, the time that passes between deciding on a project and implementing it is at least six months, and usually a whole year - and that cannot be regarded as emergency aid for the former Yugoslavia.
PHARE is negotiated by means of interaction together with the recipient country, with the recipient governments, and individual projects are negotiated with the governments.
In Bosnia-Herzegovina, elections are imminent.
The PHARE Programme can therefore be used as an election campaign tool by the present government, and that applies both to choice of project and to the possible delaying of a project.
Europe has already looked to us once, when there was war in this region.
Now the tender little shoots of peace have started to grow, and Europe is looking to us again.
Let us therefore see to it that we take care of those shoots by watering them, by watering them with money, so that they can thrive!
