Mr President, on the tenth anniversary of the Chernobyl disaster we are all still under the terrible influence of that megaaccident and its hideous after-effects, from which hundreds of thousands of people in the stricken regions continue to suffer today.
Chernobyl and its aftermath are not only a problem for Ukraine and the other affected regions in Russia and Belarus, but a problem for Europe in its entirety.
Even though the accident had largely disappeared from the media headlines prior to this anniversary, it has nevertheless caused a profound change of outlook among the people of Europe.
The question that follows on from this is whether Chernobyl was enough of a warning for those in political power too.
In view of the grim long-term effects of Chernobyl, the many dead and afflicted and the devastated farmlands, the very fact that this question has to be asked at all should make us stop and think.
Whether political lessons have been learned from the Chernobyl disaster must therefore be measured not only by the statements marking its anniversary but above all by the actual political measures taken.
The result, sadly, is far from encouraging.
From an Austrian point of view I should also like to refer to the example of the Mochovce nuclear plant in Slovakia, which poses an acute threat to our country, especially to the population of eastern Austria, and it is nothing short of macabre that the Slovak Prime Minister, Vladimir Meciar, should have chosen yesterday to celebrate publicly the signing of the contract for the completion of Mochovce, although the evidence does not suggest that there is the slightest chance of the necessary safety standards being applied.
The required safety level is far from being achieved, and no plans have yet been made for the inclusion of the essential second steel casing, which means that Mochovce remains an unassessable risk.
A similar situation prevails at the Slovenian nuclear plant in Krsko.
There are also serious safety defects there, which could have especially dire consequences since Krsko is built on a fault line into the bargain.
These problems cannot and must not be omitted from the accession negotiations between these states and the EU.
May I also refer to the promise made by the Austrian Federal Chancellor, Franz Vranitzky, who described himself in his 1990 policy statement as the torch-bearer for a nuclear-free central Europe.
We shall insist on the redemption of that pledge and on the need to extend EU funding beyond humanitarian aid, which remains an urgent necessity, and into investment in the development of techniques for the production of energy from renewable sources instead of further multiplying the risk factors with EU money.
Chernobyl has not been consigned to history and cannot be dismissed with a few commemorative speeches.
It is about our present and our future.
It is the symbol of a danger with which we are confronted anew every day.
The Big MCA is not just a chapter in history books but an ever-present threat to us all.
If we fail to recognize that and to draw the proper conclusions, we have not learned anything from Chernobyl and its aftermath.
