Mr President, the discussion on the illicit traffic in radioactive material in fact raises far more questions than we have answers to at present.
First, we keep just hearing about the sellers.
Who and where are the buyers?
Where there are sellers there are also buyers.
Secondly, it is unclear why on earth 30 out of the 35 cases - for we have to include the recent seizure in a garage in Bavaria of 277 kg of highly enriched uranium - have occurred in Germany.
Does that mean that the German police are particularly good or that the market there is particularly large?
Or are the police not so efficient in other countries?
Third question: how is it that the German Federal Government says that it informed Euratom on 27 July while Euratom says it was informed on 10 August, namely when the aircraft arrived?
There is something odd here.
The call for the use of Europol misses the point.
Let me remind you that by law nuclear material comes under the control of Euratom.
So Euratom Safeguards must at last be put in a staffing and financial position that enables it finally to carry out proper controls.
We are rightly upset at the 400 g of plutonium, but we have tonnes of plutonium in England and France.
In France there are 265 facilities with nuclear material, only 116 of them can be inspected by Euratom, of which 30 are so-called mixed facilities, meaning facilities used for civil and military purposes, which we have to deduct too, of which France can say: ' No, not today' .
And there are 103 facilities in which only foreign material, i.e., nuclear material from foreign countries, is stored.
And another thing: the IAEA can only inspect one facility per year in France.
Surely that is the real scandal!
So we must make the following demand: the disclosure by all nuclear states of all their civil and military fissile material and of course a complete stop to the further use of plutonium and a stop to this senseless transportation from one country to another.
That is the real, genuine threat in Europe, and I have not even mentioned the CIS states yet.
We only have a vague inkling of this threat.
We should have spent far more money on this area in order to enable the Euratom Safeguards departments to be up to date.
They have to live on crumbs, with which they cannot carry out any controls.
