Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I welcome the fact that Mediterranean policy is also one of the priorities of the Irish presidency.
We certainly achieved a great deal in Barcelona, but we must keep at it.
We have assumed obligations, for example with regard to human rights and the rights of minorities.
We spoke of our search for mechanisms for the settlement of conflicts and our desire to initiate disarmament and arms control measures.
These intentions must be converted into specific projects.
It is not enough, Mr President-inOffice, to have a huge selection of political options on the table, like a kind of à la carte menu, if nobody in the kitchen is preparing the various dishes.
For the next meeting of foreign ministers in the spring of next year - Barcelona II, so to speak - specific projects must be prepared and presented to our Mediterranean partners.
So what is the presidency's position on the Euro-Mediterranean Convention, the Euro-Mediterranean partnership and the stability pact?
These are various proposals, some emanating from the European Parliament, with which we should like to tempt the palates of the presidency.
What about a charter on emigration in the Mediterranean region?
Another subject, Mr President-in-Office, is Turkey.
We have heard very little about Turkey today.
I remember that in 1995 we could not escape the appeals with which the French presidency bombarded us to approve the customs union.
What is happening with the customs union, Mr President?
Are we going to reform it, are we going to revise it in accordance with the wishes of Mr Erbakan?
We were told that we really ought to support the customs union in order to promote stability in Turkey.
Instead of a customs union we now have Mr Erbakan, and I think, Mr President, that the Council presidency ought to comment on that.
In my opinion, the presidency too should let its voice be heard on the threat to the borders of the European - I repeat, the borders of the European Union.
One final point, Mr President: the dynamics of the peace process in the Middle East seem to have seized up for the time being.
If we are waiting for Mr Holbrook or Mr Christopher or some other flying peacebroker to arrive on the scene, we can wait a long time - to be precise, at least until after the presidential elections in the United States!
Why cannot we as the European Union take an initiative?
Why can we not convene an extraordinary meeting of foreign ministers along the lines of the Barcelona Conference and then try to inject fresh impetus into the process?
(Applause from the left)
