Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, how many people are unemployed in Europe?
Eighteen million?
Twenty million?
The battle over statistics will not create a single new job.
All this moaning about structural weaknesses and past mistakes, that is nothing more than a lament now.
Accusations of mismanagement and redundancy therapies on the one hand, and a lack of flexibility or quality deficit on the other, this reciprocal mud-slinging may well fill the newspapers but it will not fill people's stomachs.
It is clear that we need to take practical action, and achieve changes at local level.
Local employment initiatives make it possible to improve living and working conditions.
Local work for local people using local resources means, in the first place, services.
For example, there is the environmental sector, from waste management to the maintenance of natural areas; there is the housing sector, from security to urban renewal; the everyday-life sector, from health protection to child care; and finally the leisure sector, from tourism to cultural initiatives.
The potential which can be achieved at local level, but which is all too seldom used, or is even transferred elsewhere, must be exploited to the full.
This spatial proximity makes it possible to have a precise knowledge of special circumstances, supplies and needs.
We can see who the target groups are, from women to young people with problems to the elderly, those who are difficult to employ, and other disadvantaged workers.
We can also see what the framework conditions are.
Private job providers and public agencies should stop blocking each other's initiatives all the time.
They should cooperate, and agree to have the courage be creative and develop in new directions.
Let us not deceive ourselves: the obstacles are still enormous.
The rapporteur, Mr Schiedermeier, who received the unanimous support of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, has shown us what is missing: a willingness to cooperate on the part of government bodies, public resources to finance orders and start-up capital, and qualifications for those who might be involved in these initiatives.
We need a coherent framework for action, plus financial incentives for development, the removal of administrative and legal obstructions, and target-specific consultation.
It is high time that the coordination of specific measures by the Community and specific measures by the Member States, the encouragement of small and medium-sized enterprises, the more effective use of the structural funds, and the effective implementation of educational programmes, from LEONARDO to LIFELONG LEARNING, were expanded so as to include an important area, namely that of local development initiatives.
