Presidents Hänsch, Santer and Dini, ladies and gentlemen, one particular image of the Turin summit sticks in my mind.
I think of the building in which it took place; I think of the Lingotto of the Agnelli family, I see the racetrack on the roof of that building, I think of the German Foreign Minister, Klaus Kinkel, who drove round the track in a Ferrari, and I recall that another famous German, the world Formula One champion, also drives a Ferrari; only it seems that Michael Schumacher somehow has a spanner in the works, which is affecting both his car and himself.
The project to revise the Treaty, of course, had a spanner in its works from the very beginning, and in our view the Turin Council summit has done nothing to alter that.
The cosmetic involvement of the European Parliament that was decided upon is miles away from what we ourselves were demanding, namely a role in the ratification process.
But above all, nothing has happened to resolve the underlying dilemma, in other words the basic decision to carry out the necessary revision of the Treaty in the framework of an intergovernmental conference along the lines of Maastricht I, which is simply not open to public scrutiny, which simply does not promote a transparent and democratic process based on popular participation.
Public participation and debate in the widest possible sense are the only ways to overcome the clandestine nature of the intergovernmental conference and to let public acceptance gain ground over Euroscepticism.
The fact is, of course, that the European Union pursues an unfathomable policy, its words speaking of transparency but its actions of secrecy.
So we can scarcely wonder at people being every bit as distant from the EU as the EU is from democracy.
The tide did not turn at Turin, and that is certainly not the fault of the presidency, which tried very hard.
Klaus Hänsch asked the Council not to let its meetings degenerate into declaratory summits, but now, when I compare the statements with what is actually happening, Mr Hänsch's call remains a pious wish.
So what are the candidate countries to think of the outcome, of the fact that foremost importance attaches to economic harmonization, when they played no part whatsoever in the conference?
What is it other than hollow rhetoric when the Council refers to the struggle against unemployment as its prime concern and as a common goal without any real guidelines being formulated on the form this struggle should take, and when the finance ministers seek to whittle away at Mr Santer's project after the summit?
That is something they ought to tell us.
Where, then, are the guidelines for improving the environmental situation?
Not an inch did we move in the direction of a CO2 tax, not an inch towards a link between economy and ecology, not a single inch towards a real pact to promote employment and combat ecological destruction!
What are we to think of the decisions on mad cow disease?
When was there a better time than now to make the switch towards species-related husbandry, natural feeding and controllable markets and away from the agroindustrial mentality?
I fear that we have not moved on from that original racetrack image, from the picture of a car churning up clouds of dust as its engine roars but unable to head towards the finish because it is immobilized in the pits.
