Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, indeed our understanding of democracy is that this House should consider matters and then put them to the Commission in the expectation that the Commission will indeed listen very carefully and draw the appropriate conclusions.
That is of course a problem, against the background of the debate on the postal services and the resolutions we had drafted on them, to which we received no very clear response in the Commission's further deliberations.
But I hope things will improve this time.
We must realise that in view of the forthcoming, very far-reaching changes in our economy and our societies the production of public goods really must be established as an independent task and that we must counteract what I might call the neo-liberal frenzy to turn everything that can promote private wealth into goods.
This must not just be an exceptional clause or a residual category, as it currently is in the Treaty.
In that respect, the European Treaty really does need to be amended.
The charter for the European public services really must be taken seriously in it.
But this question also deserves serious consideration in the chapter on employment.
A universal service would indeed not suffice.
A universal service is what one might call a residual category, which may be sensible in some areas that are in a sense situated between the private economy and the public sector, but is not so in the key areas of the public services where the issue really is the production of public goods and where we do indeed need to renovate.
Of course we cannot continue with the kind of centralized state monopolies that exist in some areas and which do in fact belong to the past.
But nor do we want to replace them with worldwide or transnational private monopolies or prepare the market for such private monopolies.
As even Mr Bangemann has said on occasion, that is indeed the real danger in some central areas.
So we must make it clear that our Parliament has definite ideas about the real tasks of the public services - I have described this in the abstract and cannot go into details here.
Specific targets must be set here.
The responsibility for these tasks should lie with operators and regulators of all possible kinds, with the necessary degree of democracy and variety.
People must realise that the public services have to carry out a whole range of official or governmental tasks, including those relating to the third sector of the social economy, that they have to look seriously at the major tasks of our time - environmental reform, feminization and popular attitudes - and make real progress in these areas.
Then the public services can become an important factor in the construction of a meaningful Europe that is also accepted by all the Member States.
