Ladies and gentlemen, the charm of Mr Schulz's statements lies in their inconsistency.
On the one hand Mr Schulz rightly pointed out that international crime is one of the greatest threats of the present and the future, on the other hand he tried to play down its importance in an unacceptable manner for internal political motives.
In my view his statements today have made this very plain, because he keeps confusing the fire-fighters with the arsonists.
Of course secret services operate in the grey area, because it is only in the grey area that they can pick up the criminal elements operating there.
The statistic he gave is therefore most informative, which is why I am glad he produced it, even if I do not endorse the way he worded his proposal.
It is informative because it proves that middle Europe, i.e., the countries along the former iron curtain, are particularly exposed to cross-frontier bands of criminals and nuclear crime.
That is why we should be glad that the German and Austrian security services, like the Hungarian, Czech and Polish security services, are making particular efforts to control this crime, and we should be grateful that the Bavarian police and the Bavarian Minister of the Interior, Mr Beckstein, have taken up this challenge and thereby done a service to the European Union as a whole.
In this area Bavaria is quite definitely in the front line of the fight against international crime on behalf of the entire European Union and if you try to knock the security services that can only destabilize these police forces who do such excellent work, which has long since been the practice in the regions of North-Rhine-Westphalia and Lower Saxony, as we have seen from the internal security situation there.
This is a most important subject.
It is a European subject, and that is why I am sorry that you have dragged it down to the level of internal politics with your proposals.
It is a threat!
Attali spoke of hundreds of cases of nuclear smuggling in a report for the United Nations.
The United Nations is assuming that Russia and many former CIS states are not in a position legally or in terms of staffing to combat the spread of this crime.
That is why we must endeavour to do so.
It was not just some flight of the imagination that persuaded the Council, the individual Member States and the Commission to increase and coordinate their efforts and to discuss an increase in funding.
That is why we do support your operative proposals, which are in stark contrast to the opinions you are disseminating here for demagogical reasons.
You know full well that it is necessary to combat international crime on a European basis, and that is the purpose of our amendments and those by Mr Caccavale.
