Mr President, previous speakers have mentioned the amount of time it took for the Council to arrive at a common position on the so-called posting directive.
To my mind, this lengthy decision-making period in the Council is just another sign that social legislation is shelved for as long as possible, if not completely blocked or killed off, in the institution of the Union which represents the national governments.
Mr Peter, the rapporteur, states in his report that Parliament's will has largely prevailed in the course of the deliberations on the amended Commission proposal and the common position.
That is significant.
In the social arena above all, we, the European Parliament, represent the driving force within the Union.
Mr Peter's excellent report is the best example of this: it does not provide the Council with any pretext for delaying further still the entry into force of the directive.
I hope that the entry into force of the posting directive will send out a clear social message, and that the people of the Union will pay heed to it.
I also hope that the directive will help the much-trumpeted European social union to regain some degree of credibility.
At this point, I should like deal at slightly greater length with the problem which in fact made it necessary to draw up and introduce a posting directive.
The livelihoods of workers in countries with high wage levels and high social standards, which are costly to maintain, are being threatened by workers from countries with low wages and social standards, especially in the construction sector, which is labour-intensive and depends heavily on the general economic situation.
We therefore need to make sure that, as a matter of principle, the same wage is paid for the same work in the same place, and if possible as from day one.
The critics of such legislation repeatedly object that it impinges on one of the four fundamental freedoms of the internal market, namely the freedom of movement of persons.
That may be true, but let me make one thing perfectly clear: this directive is a much-needed legal instrument to correct certain extremely negative effects of free competition.
It should protect workers in the host country, whilst at the same time ensuring that workers from low-wage countries do not have to work for peanuts abroad, so to speak.
And I am sure that implementation of the posting directive will not destroy the competitive advantage which workers in countries with low wages have on the free market.
After all, the present version of the directive does not go as far as that; it provides for exemptions in this area.
It is now up to the individual Member States to push through implementation of this directive.
I agree with the rapporteur that its impact in practice will depend largely on the effectiveness of national monitoring instruments.
It is up to the Commission to keep a sharp eye on the Member States during the implementation process, and I hope that the report to be submitted to this House by the Commission a few years from now will state that wage dumping no longer represents a problem, particularly in sensitive sectors of the labour market.
