Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to thank the rapporteur on behalf of my group for the great commitment he has shown over a number of weeks while working on this recommendation.
His goals of ensuring the successful operation of the internal or, as he calls it, home market and helping to combat fraud and illegal trade are objectives which we all share.
There are two points which I should like to raise.
As I see it, this programme needs to ensure that customs controls are equally strict at all border crossings, including ports and airports, and it is up to you, Commissioner, to see that this happens.
People are not happy that revenue should be lost and fraud encouraged because of slack controls at certain border points in the Community.
The Community has uniform customs legislation and should therefore ensure that customs controls are applied equally strictly everywhere.
I think the programme you have proposed will be helpful here, but you will also have to monitor it in practice.
The second point I would like to make concerns a completely different aspect of the programme.
I welcomed the Commission's proposal - which was approved by the Council in the common position - that the interests of those involved in external trade should also be taken into consideration, in other words that importers and exporters should be involved.
I think it is an excellent idea to examine whether the customs rules can be simplified, since complicated rules merely encourage mistakes and fraud, whereas simpler controls would be much more effective.
I therefore welcome the fact that the Commission has said it is prepared to try to help importers and exporters by considering ways to simplify procedures.
I also think it is excellent that instead of simply handing down instructions from on high, the Member States wish to reach agreement with the freight carriers, importers and exporters on how computerized procedures can be used to simplify controls and apply them in practice.
I think that this form of partnership between economic operators and customs authorities is a very good idea and should definitely be followed up.
Finally, we should point out to the Council once again - assuming that it ever reads our proceedings - that there is no point in proposing a joint decision on improving customs if the Member States do not then provide their customs services with the funding and technology needed to put the decision into effect.
In my view, there is a good deal of ground to be made up with the installation of decent computer systems at all border controls throughout the Community, and this is something for which the Member States are responsible.
