Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, some people have questioned whether the European Parliament should become involved with the draft Bioethics Convention on which the Council of Europe has been working for so many years.
Some people have also said that we could save ourselves a great deal of time and unnecessary work, since the convention will, in any event, have no legal force.
Both these views are wrong.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights did not undertake to produce this report lightly.
On the contrary, despite our different experiences of life and our different political standpoints, we all agreed that Parliament has a certain responsibility in this area.
The Bioethics Convention establishes certain pointers and guidelines in important scientific and medical fields.
Many people have placed great hopes in these fields, so we must ensure that the pointers and guidelines are the right ones.
As the only directly elected representatives of 370 million people in the European Union, it is our duty to say what we think about protecting human rights and human dignity in applying biology and medicine, and to try to influence what a convention like this actually says.
This is why this detailed report by Mr Pelttari is so important.
My group will be voting for the report, provided one thing is clear: that human dignity is paramount.
It will not do to leave fundamental questions open.
It would be criminal if we allowed for even the possibility of unscrupulous human testing.
Consider the question of tests on people who are unable to give their consent.
They could be sick, disabled or young children.
Let me give you an example from the past.
In my home town in Germany, there is a children's home run by the Church.
At the beginning of the 1940s, 50 gypsy children living there were tested to identify any special racial characteristics.
When the doctors were satisfied with their results, the children were taken to a concentration camp and killed.
There are various points in the Council of Europe's draft Bioethics Convention where the possibility is not entirely ruled out that such terrible things might be repeated, and Mr Pelttari has not come down on these points heavily enough.
Some of the amendments he proposes even take a more moderate line, and the Group of the Party of European Socialists refuses to go along with this.
We have tabled amendments with three basic objectives.
We wish to see unconditional protection for human dignity; we wish to prevent life in any form from being treated as a commodity; and we want a public debate on forward-looking ethical issues in the fields of biology and medicine.
What does unconditional protection for human dignity mean in practice?
It means, for example, that we will spare people terrible pain if it is of no benefit to them.
It is therefore right that we should allow medical tests to be carried out on those who cannot give their consent only in certain clearly defined and exceptional cases, as specified quite clearly in paragraph 12.1.
Parliament must make it quite clear to the Council of Europe that there can be no way round this.
Next, what do we mean exactly when we say that human life must not be allowed to be treated as a commodity?
I am thinking here, for example, of in vitro fertilization, which places an enormous physical and psychological strain on women.
This is where we need to tighten up Mr Pelttari's proposals.
We must make it quite clear that the embryos produced are only to be used for the treatment of the individual woman concerned.
This should not mean, however, that a woman has to go through the whole medical procedure every time she wants to attempt an in vitro fertilization, which is why it must be possible for as many embryos to be created as are necessary to complete the woman's treatment.
If we do not specify this, there is a risk that any embryos left over will be used for tests, so we must make it clear that this is not allowed.
The third of my group's demands is for a public debate on the Bioethics Convention.
The people of Europe must be allowed to have their say on matters of such importance.
The secrecy which has surrounded the work on this convention in recent years is extremely suspicious, and we, as the elected representatives of the citizens of the European Union, must make this point quite clear.
There will then be a good chance that the Bioethics Convention produced will be one to which the European Union is prepared to accede later.
My group has proposed amendments to clarify the commendable work already done by Mr Pelttari, and I would ask you to support them.
