Madam President, the first time I spoke in this Parliament at the beginning of January 1995 I put a question to the Commissioner.
I wanted to know at what point the higher environmental standards of the three new Member States, Austria, Finland and Sweden, which were to be examined in the Union, would be assessed.
At the time you replied that you regard it as one of your important tasks to raise the Member States' environmental standards.
The new Member States were not to lower their standards but instead the Community standards were to be improved with the accession of the new Member States.
We all know that environmental policy cannot be pursued at purely national level and that every improvement will benefit all the citizens of the Union if it leads to fewer dangerous substances, less air pollution, less environmental damage.
Exactly 18 months have passed since I received this answer, which was regarded as very positive by myself and my country and no doubt also by the other new Member States, 18 months during which I did not manage to find out what measures you have taken or whether there were any measures at all.
So we have put this oral question out of our concern for our common environment, for the health of the people of the European Union, and also on behalf of the citizens, in their interest, because we have to let them know that their interests take precedence over economic interests, which are certainly only short term and short-lived, and that in the end the sustained development of our European Union also demands the appropriate environmental legislation.
We therefore urge that a plan be presented showing how, by which measures and according to what timescales these adjustments can be achieved.
I believe we must not waste any more time for two and a half years are a relatively short period for adopting legislation in this House, even if all the institutions that have to participate manage to cooperate.
Various proposals that have already been put before Parliament, such as the directives on fuel qualities and on motor vehicle emissions, could in fact already contain elements of these higher environmental standards.
I ask myself why this is not yet the case.
And I would also have expected, during the review of the fifth framework programme, mention to be made of the three new Member States, for reviews should take account of new circumstances and the enlargement of the Union to include such major and in environmental terms very sensitive areas is certainly a new factor to be taken into account.
Therefore, Commissioner, I hope that you can answer the questions we are putting to you today as positively as you did at the time, in January 1995, when you came into office.
I also hope it will prove possible by the end of this decade to raise the environmental standards in the European Union to a level that will greatly benefit the people and the environment.
