Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I think you need to have a word with your British Labour colleagues on this occasion.
I should simply like to say that, as the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy unanimously sought to ensure, the Council's common position proposes a cautious - in some areas even limited - opening-up of access to the groundhandling market at Community airports: in the case of self-handling, from 1998; and in the case of third-party handling, from 1999, with transitional arrangements until 2002.
Mr Simpson, Mr Seal, I cannot understand you at all!
Naturally, I encountered the same problems: neither the airports nor the airlines were very happy with the proposal.
They all said, however, that some kind of regulation is better than none.
I can only say, therefore, that you are being unrealistic!
Without a common directive, both airports and the airlines would be totally at the mercy, so to speak, of Mr Van Miert and his officials, since then only the possibility of individual legal actions pursuant to Articles 85 and 86 would exist.
I therefore support Commissioner Kinnock's call for the introduction of basic rules enabling airports and the airlines to adapt to the emerging legal framework and achieve security of planning - and this also applies to the workforce, Mr Simpson and Mr Seal, because employees also have to know which way the wind is blowing.
As Christian Democrats, we are in favour of the liberalization of groundhandling services.
Commissioner, perhaps you could give your Labour colleagues an individual tutorial on this matter!
I should like to indicate that, in my view, the Council's liberalization proposal represents a fair compromise between partly complementary and partly contradictory objectives.
Those objectives include: the efficient use of airport installations through the existence of competition rather than monopolies; efficient, economic management by the airport undertaking, if necessary - and here I agree with my colleague, Mr Mann, of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment - with provision for socially acceptable adaptation measures; fair market-access opportunities for new groundhandling undertakings; most importantly, the possibility of airlines being able to choose whether to perform their own handling services or have them performed by the airport undertaking - as hitherto - or third parties; and, finally, high safety standards at airports.
And I have the feeling, Mr Seal and Mr Simpson, that you forget that the objective is also to ensure the best possible service for passengers - since airports exist not for the benefit of the airlines, but for the benefit of passengers.
Sensible liberalization, therefore, is what we must strive to achieve.
Of course, there are a number of points with which we are not happy, and I hope that the Commission will take up the amendments that we adopt in tomorrow's vote.
For example, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is calling for the exemptions provided for under Article 9 to be extended to include a special derogation for cases in which the managing body of an airport can show that further extension of the airport is not possible for relevant, objective and transparent reasons.
As regards the choice of service providers, I think the major airlines should not be discriminated against: they must also have fair market-access opportunities.
It should be made clear, moreover - and here I agree with Mr Seal - that this liberalization directive must not lead to new market restrictions or interfere with existing contracts.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I believe that this is a reasonably balanced compromise, and that if nobody is entirely satisfied or dissatisfied with it, then it is a good compromise which we should approve!
