Mr President, naturally I do not agree with Mr Martinez that we should not levy any more direct taxes, but that is his problem in France.
In my view there is at this time no need to act with regard to the approximation of excise duties on tobacco, alcohol and mineral oils.
The package of measures to harmonize excise duties put together in Luxembourg in 1992 so that the single market could enter into force on 1 January 1993 is not in need of reform, for the single market is not working badly at all, as incidentally has been confirmed in reports by experts.
Of course there are always people in this House who believe they can carry out health policy by imposing exaggerated excise duties, especially on the consumption of tobacco and alcohol.
Tobacco products are made from the agricultural product called the tobacco plant.
Tens of thousands of jobs in agriculture and industry depend on this branch of production.
We cannot tolerate tobacco-growing and even give it a costly organization of the market within the common agricultural policy, only to penalize the tobacco produced with taxes, and in particular to expose the tobacco made from European raw tobacco in the few medium-sized enterprises that have not yet been swallowed up by the multinationals to a competition with multinationals from third countries it cannot stand up to.
In any case, Mrs Peijs, the cigarette smuggling by the large multi-brands is far more troublesome to us in the single market than the fact that the excise duties are not yet uniform.
For who sells the smugglers the tobacco and the millions of cigarettes tax free?
That is an additional question.
As for alcohol, I hope the majority in this House will agree with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and in particular with the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and not touch the minimum, zero rate for wine, all the more so because the application of the existing directives is causing no problems, in relation to either structure or rates.
On the contrary, I am sure we would have many more problems if we did not manage to persuade the people in the northern Member States of our Union to enjoy a glass of wine with every meal, which would be good for their health, by reducing the confiscatory excise duties.
Since the days of Hippocrates, the father of medicine, who already realised that austerity and melancholy are responsible for many illnesses, we know that wine, drunk in moderation, is very good for people, whether they are healthy or ill.
There is indeed a need for action here, in relation to reducing the excessively high excise duties in some Member States.
That would be health-promoting!
