Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since this is something of a tête-à-tête, I can begin by endorsing wholeheartedly what both Mr Peter and Mr Hughes have said.
But since I am who I am, and I am a Green, I should like to add my pennyworth.
Firstly, there is of course the problem of the exemptions: a huge amount of case-law will be required to make this truly watertight.
Secondly, there is the urgent matter of informing foreign posted workers about their rights; the Member States will have to do something here.
And thirdly, there is the problem currently affecting the United Kingdom with regard to the adoption of a proper definition of posted work, because many ostensibly self-employed British men go to Germany carrying their factories with them in the form of tool-boxes.
There really is still a great deal to be done here.
It is now high time for something to happen, and that is why the common position must enter into force as quickly as possible.
To those Members who are jeopardizing that outcome by tabling amendments, such as Mr d'Aboville, who has referred to the IMO guidelines - that is the International Maritime Organization, for his information - or by discussing European directives on maritime safety and crew levels for all vessels putting in at European ports, I would say that they might do better to cooperate with us, rather than trying to clarify these issues here and now.
They cannot be clarified rapidly, here and now, without serious risk of jeopardizing the solution of what really is a crucial problem.
Ultimately, the only issue at stake here is to re-establish the legal and civil - or occupational - status of posted work, which is currently being attacked and undermined from all sides.
Shipping, with its secondary registers and the use of flags of convenience, has indeed become a test case, and I shall be full of admiration for Mr Flynn if he succeeds in achieving stability in this area.
He would be able to take credit, once and for all, for having begun to redefine the status of posted work as an occupational category, a category with rights and with the appropriate protection.
That is what we should all be striving for.
