Mr President, since early 1996, when the British Secretary of State for Health reported that new cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease had occurred among humans in the United Kingdom, beef consumption has once again plummeted.
The market for beef has collapsed not only in the United Kingdom, but in virtually every region of Europe, including Member States which have not had a single case of BSE.
Thankfully, the Commission has taken a range of measures, including buying in beef and an export ban to protect consumers.
To reduce the impact of the heavy losses suffered by beef producers, the Commission promised an emergency programme.
For technical reasons connected with the budget, that programme must be paid for immediately, in other words by October 1996.
We are grateful to the Commission for its proposals.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has considered the document that was submitted and has formulated a number of principles for approval by the House.
The committee is calling for a standard subsidy for suckler cows and male cattle.
The subsidy should amount to an additional grant of ECU 10 per head.
At the same time, I must acknowledge that dairy farmers have also suffered losses.
The price of cull cows and calves has fallen just as sharply as that of beef cattle.
Furthermore, the Commission itself admits that it will be hard to include all the stock that should, in fairness, attract compensation payments.
Let me give you one or two examples: for instance, those cases where farmers are claiming subsidies for growing pasture instead of livestock premiums, or where they have not kept within the limit of 2.5 livestock units per hectare.
Virtually all the farms in these categories will be excluded, because they are not currently entitled to premiums.
For those reasons, the committee decided to increase the proposed sum to be made available to the Member States to compensate for losses that would not otherwise be covered.
In the short time that is available, it will not be easy, even for the Member States, to distribute this money in such a way as to compensate farmers to some extent for their losses.
We should therefore give the Member States as much latitude as possible, so that they can get the money to the farmers in good time.
We have to be clear that these subsidies are only a drop in the ocean.
Nonetheless we must make the most of them.
I shall be grateful to you if we can find a viable means of doing so.
