Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, along with the completion of the internal market and the achievement of economic and monetary union, the promotion of economic and social cohesion represents one of the EU's three political priorities.
Nominal and real convergence are not two mutually contradictory goals here.
Sound public finances, stable prices, low interest rates and a stable exchange rate are preconditions for growth and employment.
EMU, with all its advantages - including in particular for social and economic cohesion - is impossible without nominal convergence.
It is therefore clear that a reduction in crippling national debt plays an important role with regard to investment, and thus employment.
Practical experience in recent years has shown that where unemployment has been tackled by increasing national debt and raising taxes, no lasting success has been achieved.
Only a stable economy, which is the crucial precondition for participating in monetary union, can create market confidence, encourage trade and investment, and hence stimulate growth and job creation.
Regardless of the agreement on the long-term goal - that all Member States should take part in EMU - a transitional phase in which some, but not all Member States take part will pose problems, as Mr Spindelegger has already mentioned.
One of the main challenges at the start of EMU will therefore be to define the relationship between the currencies of participating states and those of countries which are not participating.
The Walter report explores this problem.
The many amendments tabled by my group have, in my view, brought about some good compromises, even though not all our hopes have been fulfilled.
Let me therefore draw particular attention to two points which are of considerable importance to my group.
The first is Amendment No 9 on paragraph 22, in which we state that the current provisions of the Treaty are not inadequate and incomplete, but merely need to be strengthened and properly applied.
Furthermore, we cannot agree to an economic steering body as a counterpart of the ECB.
The second point relates to Amendment No 11 on paragraph 41, where we refer to the Ciampi report, in which leading European trade union and industrial representatives point to a direct link between public services and competitiveness, and state that greater competition in public service provision is of benefit to governments, economies and consumers.
Therefore, public services - and incidentally, the Treaty refers here to services in the general economic interest, and I think the proper terminology should be used - should not be immune to free competition on the EU market.
We cannot and do not wish to alter the Treaty; otherwise, competition would ultimately be eliminated and the market partially segmented, to the detriment of consumers.
Surely that cannot be in our interest.
I would therefore ask the House to vote in favour of our amendment on this specific point.
