Mr President, the draft Council of Europe convention on human rights and biomedicine has rightly met with criticism from associations for the disabled and the Church, as well as many parliamentarians throughout Europe.
I welcome the fact that the European Parliament is examining and delivering an opinion on the draft convention, even if the legal situation is far from clear.
Mr Pelttari has submitted a good report.
I should like to thank him for his work.
His report uses clear wording and undoubtedly gives greater emphasis to the protection of human rights than does the Bioethics Steering Committee's draft convention.
It is to be regretted, however, that Mr Pelttari's own group wishes to remove some of this clarity, and has tabled a number of amendments which would water down the report.
As regards the content of the report, the PPE Group supports it in the form in which it was adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
We believe in clear wording and the absolute primacy of human dignity.
Firstly, I should like to address the controversial issue of modification of the germ cell line.
It is to be welcomed that the Steering Committee has pronounced itself against intervention on the germ cell line.
However, in my view and that of my group, the necessary clarity is lacking.
The European Parliament must declare its clear support for a ban.
We do not wish to see a moratorium - which may be technically justified - but a ban based on fundamental ethical considerations.
Modification of the germ cell line is not a question of therapy but of the breeding of humans, and under no circumstances can we accept the vision of humanity which underlies this.
The technique itself must also be rejected, since research into modification of the germ cell line requires embryo research in which embryos are consumed on a massive scale.
And the Steering Committee's draft is also insufficiently clear on the question of embryo research itself.
Reference is made to adequate protection, but consumptive embryo research is not unequivocally prohibited.
I ask myself: what sort of protection is it when the object of that protection ultimately dies?
How we can talk about adequate protection then?
We therefore wish to see clear wording here as well.
Nevertheless, the rejection of consumptive embryo research - and on this point we are agreed - requires consistency.
We must take care to ensure, I believe, that surplus embryos are not produced.
These would then either be used for research purposes or - and this also raises ethical problems - would have to be allowed to die.
Many universities are currently faced with the dilemma of what to do with the hundreds of thousands of frozen embryos on their hands.
A number of Member States have rules designed to address this problem, and these rules have not met with the opposition of women's movements - at least, I have not heard of any such opposition, although I have asked colleagues to provide me with evidence of it on several occasions.
Consequently, I believe that the wording of paragraph 12.5 - as adopted by the Committee on Legal Affairs - is extremely important.
As regards research on persons who are incapable of giving consent, I wish to say that the original 1994 version of the draft convention rightly gave rise to protests.
I also ask myself why it was not made clear from the outset, by means of a ban on discrimination against disabled persons, that no abuses would be permitted in this respect.
The Committee on Legal Affairs is calling for such a ban, and I believe that we should endorse that call.
The PPE Group is not opposed to a ban on research per se , but we wish to see strict rules.
That also applies with regard to persons who are incapable of giving consent.
Indeed, if we were to advocate a total ban, research in the fields of childhood diseases or Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, for example, would not be possible.
In my view, therefore, we should adopt the report in its present form, with a few changes of wording, but no changes of substance.
