Mr President, the Teverson report refers to the year 1994.
At that time Austria was not yet a Member State of the European Union.
Nevertheless, or perhaps because of that, the Teverson report is important for us too, for it does not just take the weaknesses that have been uncovered as grounds for criticizing past performance, it also calls for things to be improved.
Over these first two years in which we have not only been a Member State of the European Union but have also been cooperating in European regional policy, we in Austria have also noted these weaknesses, and from that point of view we can also identify some aspects of this report as relevant to us.
There are two particular points I want to take up.
In my view, paragraph 9 rightly criticizes the fact that the structures of European regional assistance are far too complicated.
Both the administrative procedures and the general structures are so complex that in the end no-one can pretend to be truly well-informed on the subject.
To put it more simply: many people do not understand how the individual funds and the administrative units and the whole thing still works with national co-financing.
Paragraph 17 notes that noone, not even the Commission, knows where and how EU funding is actually used, because there is obviously a serious lack of information here.
Both these criticisms also apply to the first experience we in Austria have gained in the field of regional assistance, and from that point of view we too will have to learn from our mistakes.
In particular, as a country that is after all one of the net contributors in the Union and which therefore certainly has a duty to justify the use of these monies, we must not make the mistakes that have been shown up here, for that could only overturn the feelings of sympathy for the European Union, and it could overturn us, especially a few weeks before the European elections in our country.
There are a few things we can be proud of in regional policy.
We do not need to hide our light under a bushel.
The Commissioner herself came to our country twice and was able to ascertain that.
A delegation from the Committee on Regional Policy also came to Austria, to Styria, and found that we are in fact doing very sensible things with the money, both our own and the money from Europe.
The important point here is to make this apparent to our citizens too.
There is a principle which I believe should be followed in politics in general and also and above all in politics during election times: do good and tell about it!
