Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, Mr Jarzembowski welcomed the fact that the programme specifically includes economic operators.
But if only we had included them in the past and heeded their warnings, we would not now be planning to extend the T1 system to cover the Visegrad states.
Freight carriers - who were mentioned a moment ago and who really do face enormous financial penalties which they have not themselves incurred - and their associations have repeatedly warned against extending the T1 system to the Visegrad states or others at the present time, not because these countries are not to be trusted or because we do not wish to have them in the system, or because we do not know how important these first moves towards enlargement are, but because the T1 system is now no longer working even in the European Union and the EFTA countries and is, according to the Commission, on the point of collapse.
To put it bluntly, there is no point in having talks with economic operators or with the customs authorities if we do not draw the appropriate conclusions.
If all that happens at the end of the day is that a political decision is taken which cannot be justified in practical terms, then even the most constructive talks are useless.
Nevertheless, we would of course welcome the continuation of talks as part of this programme.
I have a comment to make about Amendment No 16, which has caused some misunderstanding because it calls for direct customs control to have priority over every other method.
This does not mean, of course, that every lorry has to be unloaded at the border or its destination, which would, as we all know, be quite stupid.
But the approach adopted by the Commission and the Member States at the moment, of demanding higher guarantees, asking for individual sureties, extending the periods during which controls may be carried out, carrying out audits which produce statistics on fraud instead of preventing it, and then claiming payment retrospectively from the operators we have talked about so often - all of this is wrong.
The aim is not to find a scapegoat and hold them responsible for as long as possible.
The aim must be to take deterrent and preventive action, and this is only possible with controls.
What has been happening in the past few weeks with the abolition of securities for certain products and the introduction of individual sureties for sensitive products is already ruining some firms, and this is surely not what anyone here wants.
