Mr Hänsch, Mr Bruton and Mr Santer, ladies and gentlemen, what is Europe, what is the EU really there for?
Is Europe there for the people or the people for Europe?
Everyone in this House will say, of course Europe is there for the people.
Everyone will say, of course Europe must not instil fear or fright in the people but give them a sense of security and hope.
Of course Europe should be a protective community in which the fundamental rights are guaranteed.
Of course Europe should make people's lives more peaceful and safer.
But if all that is such a matter of course, why does this European Union not act on it?
Why does the opposite happen, under the guise of the Maastricht criteria?
Can and should we allow social and democratic achievements to be eroded in order to fulfil these criteria?
The great majority of people are to suffer so that the economy can flourish and we can keep to an unrealistic timetable.
That is the disastrous continuation of a policy that has led us where we are now.
Europe is very distant from its citizens, anti-Europeanism has grown and will continue to grow because people have the feeling they are no more than chess pieces on the European board in a game which industry and the economy are winning.
The people will ask us: ' What do we need monetary union for if it is doing harm even before being introduced?'
Let us beware of turning Europe into a weapon that knocks down the social and democratic rights that have been built up over recent decades!
For in the end it will not just be these achievements and rights that are destroyed.
The Council, the club of national government interests, is playing with fire if it believes it can provide for the urgent need for a more pan-European approach, social ecology, the principle of democracy, which also means participation, transparency and openness, and take the aims we set for the Intergovernmental Conference ad absurdum.
This would not result in a different, solidary Europe but in the renationalization of politics and the re-emergence of nationalism.
Today the political fight to establish civil rights as its foundation is the key to the survival of European integration.
The Member States, the governments will have to learn that democracy does not interfere with the development of Europe but is essential to it.
