Madam President, Commissioner, the mere suspicion that BSE - mad cow disease - is transmissible to man has caused the virtual collapse of the European beef market.
Restoring consumer confidence is costing billions of ECUs from public funds.
BSE has plunged the European Union into a deep political crisis.
For months on end the British government has been crippling the Council, and it is going to go on doing so.
The British government played down the risks of the possible transmissibility of BSE to man for many years, and it now transpires that the Commission, too, was a party to this conspiracy of silence.
It would be nice to think that the Commission has learnt something, but obviously this is not the case.
I put a question to you, Commissioner, about the so-called bovine AIDS, a BIV virus which, like the HIV virus, belongs to the retrovirus group.
In your answer, Commissioner, you told me that this disease has occurred on one farm in the United Kingdom.
But in the very next paragraph of your answer you refer to a world-wide spreading of the BIV virus.
And then you go on to tell me - and I quote - on good authority that BIV and the other retroviruses found in animals have no effect on human health.
According to my information, there is a strong suspicion that HIV viruses were transmitted from apes to man.
But it would be misleading - your word, Commissioner, misleading - to talk about congenital immunodeficiency, in other words AIDS, because this disease does not result in AIDS-type symptoms.
At the same time, though, you say that further studies are needed to enable the Commission to assess the importance of this BIV virus.
Your line of argument here has a familiar ring to me.
We heard exactly the same kind of argument for years about BSE.
The Commission is now confronted by the shattered remnants of European agriculture.
The Commission must take immediate action to ensure that the 'polluter pays' principle applies in agriculture, too.
And the Commission must also acknowledge that the plague-like spread of zoonoses is encouraged by intensive agriculture - that intensive agriculture which the EU subsidizes with half its budget.
