Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive - which has, incidentally, been rejected in the Council by the UK and Portugal - is based on the twin assumptions that the construction industry in the so-called high-wage countries is in need of protection, and that the posting there of workers from so-called low-wage countries constitutes wage and social dumping, which results in unfair competition.
The main cause of the wage and social dumping which is evident in some of the so-called high-wage countries is in fact the alarming rise in illegal terms of employment.
The response of this proposed posting directive is to render the legal posting of workers from low-wage countries in high-wage countries uneconomic, by increasing rates of pay.
Restricting legal posting in this way would therefore not make the slightest contribution to combatting the main evil, namely illegal employment.
The adoption of contractual or national minimum rates of pay not only serves to eliminate the wage-cost benefits of posting workers from low-wage countries in high-wage countries; more significantly, it also becomes impossible, or at least much more difficult, for posted workers to find employment in host countries which have higher wage levels.
However, Article 48 of the EC Treaty, in conjunction with Article 7a, second paragraph, of the Treaty, secures the freedom of workers to obtain employment on their own terms in any Member State.
This right of free movement is a cornerstone of the completion of the internal market, and it applies even to posted workers working in another country under the terms of employment of their home country.
This right would in practice become virtually impossible to exercise if the proposed posting directive came into effect.
To impede or complicate the exercising of this right would unacceptably undermine the right to freedom of movement.
Unilaterally excluding wage costs as a factor of competition would suppress competition to the detriment of foreign service-providers in the construction industry, thereby infringing one of the fundamental principles of the European internal market.
