Mr President, I should like to offer Mr Meier my sincere thanks for his report on what is a most difficult and complicated subject, which the Council has also taken a long time to deal with.
I looked into this and discovered that the Commission took its first decision on the matter in mid1993.
Not that I am blaming the Council, but it shows just how complicated the subject is, particularly when you consider the modern procedures we wish to use to guarantee safety.
That is, after all, the aim of the directive: to identify procedures which ensure a high degree of safety, while at the same time avoiding imposing an unnecessary burden of bureaucracy on the industry concerned.
Mr Konrad did indeed refer to one of these conflicts of interests.
Some of the amendments improve and clarify the text.
This applies to Amendments Nos 1 to 7, 9, 11, 12, 14 and 15, which we therefore accept.
We cannot accept the remaining amendments, Nos 8, 10, 13 and 17.
Amendment No 8 calls for the product inspection in the higher categories to be carried out in all cases by an independent third party.
This conflicts with other provisions in the directive and with the Council decision on the conformity assessment procedure, which provides for the use of quality assurance systems as an alternative to such procedures.
This decision has been successfully applied for some time, and we do not wish to depart from it.
Amendment No 10 calls for the promotion of the application of harmonized standards.
Since this is already guaranteed in principle by the new system, there is no need for the additional special report required by this amendment, which we feel would not improve safety, but simply add to the bureaucratic burden.
I hope that we can now make faster progress than before, because as Mr Meier and Mr Konrad rightly pointed out, this is a most important directive which affects a large section of the internal market and should have been introduced years ago.
Now we have it within our grasp.
I have made an effort, for the sake of both the House and, in particular, the interpreters, not to let my speech go on after midnight.
I have indeed left the President a minute to spare so that he can close the proceedings.
