Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Commissioner Fischler, the BSE disaster is a chain of misconduct, political misjudgement, and failure to assume political responsibility.
This is not a plague; it is a disaster brought about by mankind, namely by the British Government's decision to change the temperature and pressure at which animal-based meal was manufactured.
We all know what the result was for the cattle.
However, there was also a failure of judgement on the part of the Commission in thinking that this disease would not take on such proportions, but would gradually die out.
It is true that the Commission has now taken action - and I acknowledge Commissioner Fischler's consistent approach - but it has been an emergency response rather than a policy of prevention, because some two million infected animals had already entered the food chain before the Commission intervened.
Animal-based meal that was manufactured at temperatures too low to halt BSE infection is still in circulation, and animalbased meal is also continuing to be used as fodder while it is still unknown whether temperature can, in fact, halt the infection.
According to you, Mr Santer, the Commission had no official line, and the Italian Government said that if the Commission had made the proposal in question, it would have rejected it.
In saying this, you are either making a joke or being cynical.
If you had come clean about it, we would not have needed a committee of inquiry.
The problem is that you did not come clean.
What is at issue now is not only a cure for this disease, but the reputation of the European Parliament and the reputation of European politics, which has been tarnished by all this sloppiness.
It is important that the European Parliament, which has been consistent in its approach, is not lumped together with a Commission which failed to recognize the signs when it should have done, which relied on scientists who minimized the danger, and which played along with the strategy of minimizing the danger.
That is what matters now, and that is what must be resolved.
And if we are unlucky and this disease proves to be transmissible to humans, we shall have to ask ourselves why, even at this stage, we failed to draw the necessary conclusions.
The question of a committee of inquiry is also a question of how rigorous future measures will be.
What matters is not just that amends should be made for past errors, but that the House should use the powers it has recently acquired in relation to agriculture, and that it should be incorporated in the Treaties that the House can have its say and require you to take action if we believe it to be necessary.
That is what matters, and that is why our group is in favour of setting up the committee of inquiry.
And the flabby line taken by Mr Böge, on behalf of the PPE Group - ' Go ahead and investigate it yourselves, it's all right by us' - is not the stance of the European Parliament.
We must do our duty, Mr Böge!
