Mr President, with regard to the European Union's desired agreement with Morocco, some people have been advancing the equality argument, saying that we must conclude the agreement because the EU is concluding the same type of agreement with other Mediterranean coastal states.
But there are differences.
Libya, for instance, is not one of the states involved in the MEDA programme.
Morocco differs from the other Mediterranean states in that it has occupied the Western Sahara.
The European Parliament has always taken a clear and unequivocal position on Morocco and the Western Sahara.
The realization of the Sahrawi people's right to self-determination has always been a matter of priority for us.
We bear special political responsibility here too.
The Sahrawi people have lived in refugee camps for 20 years.
That is the result of an irresponsible policy pursued in the postcolonial era.
That we should give humanitarian aid to the refugees and to the refugee camps is therefore a dictate of our humanity and part of our historical obligation.
But before we can sign or approve this agreement here today, we need a political solution for the Western Sahara, and that means Moroccan withdrawal from the Western Sahara.
The peace process was a good start.
The ceasefire agreement was important.
But the referendum is also important to us.
Some people are still saying that dialogue is needed.
We can see how dialogue works in the wake of the agreement with Turkey.
There is dialogue.
There are Spanish and French tourist organizations represented in Morocco, there are fisheries, arms exports, police training in Germany.
I believe that if we want to move forward here, it is essential that peace should reign in the region, that human rights should be respected and especially that the Sahrawi people's right to self-determination should be supported.
We want peace in the Mediterranean Basin, but only on condition that Morocco demonstrates real commitment to it.
Otherwise we advocate waiting until the referendum has actually taken place.
