Madam President, the Florence summit and the Intergovernmental Conference are confronted with problems that show up certain weak spots.
Owing to certain disagreeable developments in one specific area - and here I need name only the key words: BSE, health, and the behaviour of the British Government, and I say 'British Government' deliberately, because I do not mean the British people or Great Britain itself - a situation has arisen in which all further progress is being blocked, on certain fundamental issues and also, at the same time, on what one might call everyday decisions - and there must be about eighty of these already.
Although I would urge us all to seek to convince one another by means of argument, and also show a certain amount of patience and understanding in the present situation, it should not be possible for unjustified blockades to be set up, which have no basis in fact.
I call upon the British Government to give up its current obstreperous behaviour.
In that sense I support all developments that lead to future changes, and that also includes the area of common foreign policy and common security policy, where we must have the necessary flexibility - See Point 9 of the motion for a resolution tabled by the Committee on Institutional Affairs - to make further developments and measures possible, without being obliged to participate, but also without being able to prevent decisions being taken.
The Florence summit was intended, as the Italian presidency comes to an end, to sum up the progress that has been made over the last six months, to open up prospects for the future and to introduce the next presidency.
On all the subjects that are to be discussed, this summit is especially important, because an initial report is to be given on the results, to date, of the Intergovernmental Conference.
To sum up, I should just like to go over, briefly, the main points for discussion at the European Council and the Intergovernmental Conference.
They are concerned with further institutional development, of deepening and broadening.
I support the present motion for a resolution.
Particularly important are those developments that give the European Parliament more weight.
They are also concerned with questions of security, and with universal services.
Important, here, is the progress that has been made in the third pillar - and I shall just mention Europol in this context - and particularly the economic and social components, in which the employment situation and the strong joint efforts that are being made to improve it are given the highest priority.
