Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, back in the summer of 1993 the European Council decided that those countries of central and eastern Europe which wanted to join the European Union could do so.
The European Council set out the conditions, and quite tough conditions they are too.
They relate to the development of democracy in those countries, but above all they relate to harmonization of those states' economic and legal systems to the acquis communautaire , to the development and the aims of the European Union.
The obstacle to accession is not insurmountable, but it is very high.
Today in the European Parliament, not for the first time and surely not for the last time, we are discussing, in the context of Mr Oostlander's report - for which I should like to thank him sincerely on behalf of my group - the question of the amount of progress that we - and by 'we' I mean both the associated countries of central and eastern Europe and the European Union itself - have made in the preparatory process.
To make it quite clear once again to many people, let me say that we are not discussing the accession of the central and eastern European countries today but are reviewing the progress made with these preparations and identifying the tasks that still have to be accomplished.
President Dini stated this morning that preparations for enlargement are also on the agenda of the Intergovernmental Conference.
He said that the agenda was ambitious and kaleidoscopic, that the Council will present an interim report and that the Madrid decisions are to be implemented.
Those are clear words.
The requirements set by the European Union when it held out the prospect of EU membership after the end of the East-West confrontation are demanding, but the countries of central and eastern Europe set about their work right away, doing everything in their power to achieve the necessary objectives as quickly as possible.
The European Union provided help.
The funds disbursed so far under the PHARE programme have done much to promote the establishment of the private economy in those countries, to pave the way for restructuring of state enterprises and to develop a sound financial and banking system.
In short, the European Union has made a decisive contribution.
But the really strenuous efforts to date have been made by the governments and more especially by the people in the countries of central and eastern Europe themselves.
This led the Czech Prime Minister, Mr Václav Klaus, to state that not only had the countries of central and eastern Europe left the operating table and were on the road to recovery, but they were also completing the first phase of economic transformation, the main aims of which were to achieve macroeconomic stabilization and to create a regulatory framework for the market economy.
The preparatory work for the accession of these countries, however, is not only theirs to do; important decisions also have to be taken by the European Union, decisions over which the states of central and eastern Europe have no influence at all.
They have no say in the form, the direction or the speed of the western European integration process, nor have they any influence whatsoever on the proceedings of the Intergovernmental Conference, where the conditions for the smooth entry of their countries into the institutions of the Union have to be formulated.
Moreover, they have no influence over the essential reform measures that we still have to adopt within the Community, for example in the domains of finance and agriculture.
The countries of central and eastern Europe, however, are not deterred by this, nor should we in the European Parliament be deterred by the magnitude of the tasks facing us.
We want to modernize the European Union.
We want to guarantee stability in Europe, both now and in the long term.
We want to secure the future of the entire population of the European Union, which means being prepared to offer the countries of central and eastern Europe an honest assessment of their prospects of acceding to the European Union and hence of playing a part in our common development.
We know that this will not be free of charge, but the cost of non-accession, the cost of instability in Europe and the cost of separate development would be far, far higher.
The future accession of the countries of central and eastern Europe to the European Union is no reason for euphoria and certainly not for arrogance.
The future enlargement of the European Union gives us no cause for excessive optimism, but neither should it cause us undue alarm.
We must set about our task of creating the new Europe of the twentieth century realistically, critically and confidently.
The forthcoming enlargement is part of that task.
Our Europe will become what we ourselves make of it.
