Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the will and the ability to innovate are the keys to the economic and social future of the entire Community.
Europe in particular has to remain a leading player if it is to safeguard its international competitiveness, not only in terms of economic performance but also in the exploitation and widespread application of new forms of technology.
For one thing, I advocate more vigorous support of the Scientific and Technological Option Assessment unit (STOA).
I regard this as an absolutely essential point, because technology assessment helps to broaden the range of instruments available for technological forecasting.
The more complex scientific and technical developments become, the more important it is to explain the consequences of new technology to the public and to assist MEPs in their decision-making with the aid of STOA.
STOA should cooperate closely with the Institute for Prospective Technological Studies (IPTS), and the IPTS should be assigned a key role in improving the coordination of European technology assessments.
One of the main aspects of innovation is the question of security and access to information.
At the Euratom Conference on the Control of Nuclear Material in Novosibirsk, which I attended yesterday, it became clear how important innovation is in the domain of control.
It is also important to be aware of the need to promote initial and advanced training in this domain.
Innovation in the field of human resources must take place through the development of the existing programmes, such as Socrates, Leonardo and TACIS.
I also call on the Commission to create a European network of women self-starters.
We are undergoing a comprehensive structural transformation from industrial society to service and information society.
The service sector is a women's domain.
The number of women who have started businesses has increased considerably.
The reasons for the higher proportion of women self-starters lie in the marked improvement in the vocational training of women, and another factor nowadays, of course, is that on completion of their vocational training many women have no prospect of finding a job or have to work under the constant threat of unemployment.
The most important enabling measure for women self-starters is state-aided professional consultancy.
A special coaching model would be highly desirable, in other words advice provided over a lengthy period by a consultant for particularly innovative self-starters, be they men or women.
Consideration should be given to the establishment of intersectoral, supraregional and European coordinating agencies for business start-ups.
