Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by quoting Professor Markel, the newly elected President of the Max Planck Society, who wrote about the shifting borders of Europe in the following terms: how important it is that, precisely as representatives of science and research, we avoid as far as possible speaking of Europe in terms of clearly defined geographic areas; we need no further argument for this than to single out the example of Israel today which - whatever else it may be - is also European.
In this context, I heartily welcome, on behalf of my group, the Agreement now to be concluded with Israel.
Through it, we shall receive new impetus for our research and benefit from the outstanding competence of Israeli researchers.
The Weizman Institute, an excellent academic institution which has maintained an office in Brussels for years, bears witness to the European direction of research in Israel.
Israel is the first country that will not pick and choose its topics.
With the exception of programmes on fusion and nuclear safety, it works in all the fields covered by the Fourth Framework Programme.
Israel will be able to participate straight away in invitations to tender for specific programmes.
There is one Israeli demand which the EU cannot accommodate - and my group supports this view.
As a nonmember country, it cannot claim voting rights in the programme committees.
Israel will be able to put forward experts for project assessment and selection and to present its concerns and preferred areas of research in a joint committee, the EC-Israel Research Committee.
As we are now embarking on the preparatory work for the Fifth Framework Programme, Israel will be able from the outset, on a consultative basis, to exert its influence on the direction of programmes and to assist in shaping cooperation agreements for the future.
In parallel with the cooperation process, the parliamentary level, especially the two committees concerned in the Knesset and in the European Parliament, should establish regular working contacts.
Arrangements for the protection of intellectual property have been included in the Agreement.
Whether they will always be satisfactory to both parties, experience in practice will show.
As we are constantly refining our own legislation in this field - witness the hotly debated Directive on the patenting of genetically modified organisms - this point, i.e. protection of intellectual property, may need to be renegotiated for the next agreement.
The Water Task Force which has been set up will certainly be of great interest to Israel.
Proper water management in the Mediterranean region, especially in the Middle East, contributes to peace among the nations of the area.
Israel's experience in this field, amongst other things with desalination plants, will help us effectively to solve one of the greatest problems of the next century, i.e. the efficient supply of water to the population, and hence contribute to the wellbeing and peace of peoples throughout the region.
I should like to conclude these remarks on the Agreement with a word of thanks to the rapporteur for his good and agreeable cooperation and by quoting Professor Markel for a second time: there really is such a thing as a world scientific community, and it can span a cohesive network of intellectual and inter-personal relations which holds fast even where national differences, ideological divergence, hostilities between nations and competitive clashes over economic interests mercilessly separate most human beings.
I hope this research Agreement will bring not only economic benefits, but also advances for the peace and wellbeing of peoples.
