Mr President, this supplementary and amending budget was born under the star of the decision on own resources, which has now finally been ratified, and we have ECU 81.94 billion at our disposal in the 1996 budget.
At the same time we have a balance of ECU 9.21 billion left over from the previous year.
This money either does not need to be paid by the Member States, or else it goes back to them.
However, that is still more than 10 % of the present year's budget.
If we had not had BSE and a number of corrections in individual categories, for example those that were made necessary by enlargement or by the newly created Ombudsman's Office, then the figure would have been far more than 10 %.
Now it is not Parliament that is responsible for this fact.
Surely it is mad to commit resources to the agricultural sector and the structural funds, and then not use them, whilst in sectors which are important for the future of Europe, and which require close cooperation between undertakings within the region and the citizens of Europe, both the Commission and the Council are being stingy.
And this is particularly true in Categories 3 and 4.
The Commission and the Council must ask themselves the following question, "Can't you do any better, or is it just that you don't want to?'
As far as the 1997 budget is concerned, there are signs that it is indeed a question of not wanting to.
Our group will be approving the supplementary and amending budget, and it emphasizes that in so doing it is also expressing its solidarity with those affected by BSE and its consequences.
One of the main points of interest to our group is also the supervision and control of expenditure on projects under the MEDA, PHARE and TACIS programmes.
However, the Commission should know that we would not fall in with its proposals if it were to use the room to manoeuvre, provided by us, in order to re-introduce mini-budgets.
The administration of the European Parliament should also know that decisions by the Committee on Budgets and the European Parliament - and I am referring here to the Miranda report - are law, and should not be open to interpretation.
Our group will be approving this supplementary and amending budget.
