Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am only speaking about Mr Arias Cañete's report on the problems of the fisheries sector in the NAFO regulatory zone.
Although this is a very thorough and open-minded report, my group has some difficulties with it, and that is not because it is so openly critical of the Canadians at various points.
In our view, this criticism is mostly justified.
However, the report focuses too narrowly on the maximizing of fishing opportunities and fails to take account of some important aspects which should certainly have been addressed in an own-initiative report of this kind.
I would firstly mention the monitoring arrangements: instead of dismissing the monitoring arrangements contained in the bilateral fisheries agreement of 17 April 1995 between the European Union and Canada as discriminatory and too costly, its innovative aspects should have been given greater prominence.
It is true that the new inspection arrangements are costly, but they are obviously working and have, above all, helped to defuse the situation.
Far fewer infringements have been detected than before, and so the potential for conflict between the parties to the agreement has been much diminished.
It is also questionable whether different arrangements - as called for in the report - really would be more effective, or whether they might ultimately dilute monitoring practice.
To my mind, on-the-spot inspections still remain the most effective way of monitoring catches and the type of gear being used.
Satellite surveillance cannot replace these inspections, but only complement them in order to determine the location of vessels, as is in fact stipulated in the NAFO monitoring arrangements.
The relatively high cost of carrying out such measures should be regarded as the price to be paid for dwindling fish stocks and for past neglect.
In any event, we should like the existing NAFO monitoring arrangements to be recognized as an improvement in terms of the conservation of stocks, thereby helping to safeguard fishing effort in the future.
Another very important aspect which is also omitted from the report concerns the decision-making procedure in the NAFO Fisheries Commission.
Those in the know agree that the main reason for the appalling state of fish stocks in the NAFO zone is the fact that the NAFO decisions on management and conservation measures are not binding.
The scope for raising objections has undermined all the measures, and any party dissatisfied with the catch quota allotted to it has routinely been able to award itself higher catch quotas.
For my group, therefore, the abandonment of this objection procedure is the key to further progress in fisheries management in the NAFO zone.
Unless this happens, in our opinion, there would in fact be little point in putting any of the other demands into effect.
What, for instance, would be the use of the rapporteur's call for a more balanced composition of the NAFO Scientific Committee, or for a voting system in NAFO which is more satisfactory to the Union, when in a borderline case another party which is outvoted can raise an objection to certain management measures, thereby triggering the next conflict?
While it is true that my group's request does not correspond to the currently accepted international principles, it would nevertheless be very appropriate in a report which in several respects takes issue with those principles.
One need only look at the proposals concerning the voting system in international organizations.
Also, our request is by no means out of place, since the UN agreement on the conservation and management of straddling stocks and discrete stocks explicitly obliges coastal states and countries engaged in deep-sea fishing to cooperate in laying down conservation and management measures.
My group has tabled a number of amendments reflecting our concerns, and it is vital for them to be adopted if we are to support the report.
I therefore ask Mr Arias Cañete too to look favourably on these amendments.
