Mr President, six months ago the peace negotiations in Bosnia-Herzegovina ended with the signing of the Dayton Accord.
Since then, the international community has made great efforts to achieve longterm peace in this devastated country, by means of reconstruction.
The European Union and its Member States have fulfilled their responsibilities with regard to a substantial part of these efforts, in terms of both reconstruction and peacekeeping by the IFOR troops.
However, we have not yet succeeded in ensuring peace.
After a certain amount of initial difficulty, the first results of the reconstruction effort are now visible, and even the restoration of infrastructural facilities is slowly but surely progressing.
Thanks to the presence of the international troops, however, the most important objective has been achieved.
The war has ended.
This does not mean that all the wounds in the relationships between the individual ethnic groups have already been healed, and that peace is guaranteed in the long term.
But thanks to IFOR the people of Bosnia-Herzegovina can now venture to make a new start in relative safety.
Unfortunately the situation is still not such as to make this possible without the presence of the IFOR troops.
Enormous efforts will still have to be made if there is to be reconciliation between the different ethnic groups, because if there is one thing we have learned from Bosnia-Herzegovina, it is that it is more difficult to make peace than to make war.
The planned withdrawal of IFOR forces at the end of this year is therefore likely, in my opinion, to constitute the greatest threat to maintaining both the peace and the reconstruction process.
My group has therefore taken the initiative and, by means of a European Parliament recommendation, has asked the Council of Ministers to prolong the presence of at least the European contingent of the IFOR troops so that it continues into next year.
Mrs Maij-Weggen has spoken about this problem.
I take exactly the same view as she does.
The matter must be discussed.
A decision of this kind is essential, because without IFOR we cannot expect the peace process to be successful.
All those who have said so here today are right, because although progress is being made on reconstruction, there is still a lot of work to be done.
As was shown by last week's follow-up conference in Florence, on the implementation of the peace accord, there are some areas in which a lot of work still has to be done.
This is particularly true with regard to the return of refugees and those who have been driven out of their homes, the measures needed to guarantee freedom of domicile for people throughout the whole of the sovereign territory, and the building up of joint democratic institutions at national, regional and local level.
The implementation of free and democratic elections could make an important contribution here, if - and I emphasize the word "if' - the basic conditions for those elections can be provided.
Of absolutely vital importance is the existence of free and independent media, so that it is possible for all candidates and all parties to have free and equal access.
Even more important, however, is the existence of multi-ethnic political parties, which will make it possible, after the elections, to continue the process of rapprochement between the various ethnic groups, and to prevent ethnic separation from becoming strengthened and legitimized by the elections.
The European Union now faces an important task.
It must do everything it can to ensure that the hope of a peaceful future in Bosnia-Herzegovina can survive.
I hope that we shall all be in a position to do so.
