Mr President, I welcome the Commission proposal that the Member States be given the opportunity to introduce a model Community driving licence on 1 July 1996 in the form of a 'credit card' -type document as an alternative to the paper version.
First of all, such a document offers the basis for national driving licences that are comprehensible and recognized throughout Europe, which means greater security for licence-holders.
Secondly, it facilitates any spot-checks that may be necessary and thereby enhances road safety.
Thirdly, it guarantees greater flexibility of use while reducing the risk of licence forgery.
Fourthly, it satisfies the desire of many people nowadays for effectiveness and efficiency and for practicality and flexibility in the use of things and in dealings with authorities and institutions.
That is precisely why I expect many Member States to take the opportunity to introduce this type of model driving licence as quickly as possible, even though it is unfortunately not compulsory.
I should like to congratulate the Council on its decision to side with Parliament in opposing the Commission proposal to limit the validity of the licence to ten years.
This decision gives user states the chance to decide themselves on the term of validity of the driving licence, which, though drawn up in accordance with the EU model, is still a national licence.
At the same time, the Group of the European People's Party not only favours a far longer term but actually supports unlimited validity.
This would help to save money and to minimize bureaucracy.
The introduction of a separate space in which the issuing country may make optional entries is in line with the wishes of Parliament.
The utmost care must be taken, however, with medical data in particular, in other words details of blood group, allergies and suchlike and indication of willingness to donate organs, to ensure that there is also a separate written statement of consent by the licence-holder.
The option of including bar codes and national symbols - which, of course, must not impair comprehensibility and mutual recognition - accords with the legitimate interests of the Member States.
Let us hope that this also contributes to speedy implementation.
I propose that we support Mr Farassino and his report.
