Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, nothing has changed.
As in Barcelona in 1992, women are once again being prevented from taking part in the Olympic Games in Atlanta this year.
Islamic countries in particular are not allowing them to take part in sports under their own responsibility.
Girls and women cannot train in these countries, are prevented from participating by dress codes, often threatened by fundamentalist groups and of course not nominated.
As in the days of Barcelona there are now probably some 35 states that will send all-male teams to the USA.
This clear infringement of the Olympic Charter is unacceptable.
It is irreconcilable with the idea of the Olympic movement for people to be discriminated against on grounds of religion, politics or sex.
The accusation that action was taken too late is not correct.
Lissy Gröner rightly pointed that out.
A whole 500 days before Atlanta, at the beginning of January 1995, committed women in Paris founded the Atlanta Plus Committee and contacted national sport authorities, sportsmen and sportswomen, with some success.
But the answer they received from the International Olympic Committee, the IOC, was terrible.
It had the presumption to say that Atlanta Plus' proposal was a politically motivated attack on a religion.
Any restriction on women's elementary rights in sport, education and health, as in the professional world, is unacceptable.
This has been the subject of repeated debates and decisions, including those taken at the International Conference on Population in Cairo in 1994 and the Fourth World Conference on Women in Beijing in 1995.
The exclusion of women from the Olympic movement merits only one answer: sanctions.
What South Africa felt the brunt of for decades, its exclusion from the Olympic movement because of its policy of apartheid, must also apply to the national Olympic committees of those states that trample women's rights underfoot.
They must no longer be accredited, they must be suspended.
Countries in which girls and women are prevented from realising their potential cannot and must not receive material or political support from the European Union.
We must confront them with the need to change, for the sake of the realization of human rights.
The resolution submitted by our Committee on Women's Rights deserves the support of the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
