Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Working Group on Agriculture of the European People's Party held a hearing in February 1991 in the presence of Mr Meldrum from the Royal Veterinary Institute in London.
As a consequence of that hearing, the European Parliament adopted a resolution on 12 March 1991 urging the British Government to ban human and animal consumption of beef from herds suspected of carrying BSE.
At the same time the European Parliament called for the production of bone and animal meal as ruminant feed to be authorized only if it involved heating and sterilization at 134 degrees Celsius for 20 minutes at a steam pressure of bar 3.
In the years that followed Parliament adopted further resolutions.
There was virtually no response from the British Government.
Mr Meldrum told us in 1991 that the feeding to ruminants of bone meal from infected carcasses had been prohibited in 1988 and that by 1993 - five years after the prohibition - the disease would be eradicated.
Sadly, Commissioner, things worked out differently; the disease has survived, and farmers can only look on helplessly as the greatest of all food scares deters consumers from beef consumption.
Carelessness and ignorance have prevented resolute and timely action to eliminate the disease.
In this way the British Government has put its own farmers and its own consumers in a critical economic situation as well as endangering their health.
This situation has now affected the whole of Europe.
Farmers and consumers are deeply disappointed at the ineptitude of the British administration!
(Applause) The protection of health takes priority over the lifting of the export ban, as Mr Santer said yesterday.
The decision to buy a product is taken by the consumer.
The consumer wants to know where gelatine and tallow, as products or as ingredients in other products, come from and whether they are harmless.
Commissioner, as a farmer I would never buy bulls' semen that has had to be sterilized beforehand, because you get no new life from sterilized semen, only empty cows, and I would not do that.
I'm telling you that straight!
(Laughter, applause) To combat a swine-fever epidemic in Germany and in Belgium, hundreds of thousands of healthy pigs were put down.
The farmers were up in arms, but they were not asked.
Only when it was officially established that the disease had been eradicated was the export ban lifted in both countries.
Only then could free trading be resumed.
If we did not have the single market, the British Government would be left to carry the can for this whole debacle.
Two hundred and fifty infected animals are still dying every week in Britain.
That is too many for a relaxation of the export ban.
There is still no sign of the epidemic ending in the immediate future.
Let me say loud and clear to the British Government that only with BSE-free herds can consumer confidence return and these products become exportable once more to every part of the world.
(Applause)
