Mr President, Commissioner, we must not allow ourselves to be annoyed by the discreditable events at the Florence summit, however difficult this may be for many of us, especially our excellent rapporteur.
For indeed, the plans for the trans-European transport network have opened a new chapter in the history of European transport policy.
The launch of this project will represent a first attempt to create, at European level, a sustainable transport infrastructure for the whole of Europe.
The investment made to this end will have a twofold benefit: the development of a more environmentally compatible transport infrastructure; and the creation of new jobs for Europe's citizens.
Nevertheless, our work on this project will not end with tomorrow's vote.
Following the Council's display of ignorance and arrogance, it must be made clear that we shall continue to pursue our aims with all means available.
In particular, it will be up to the members of the Committee on Budgets to ensure that what is now the indicative stipulation that the fourteen Essen schemes are priority projects is actually adhered to, and that Community resources are used to secure a new trend in favour of environmentally compatible forms of transport.
Furthermore, we shall be required to check carefully that the environmental requirements set out in Article 8 are complied with by all the Member States.
I wish to stress the fact that I and the other Austrian social democrat Members regret the deletion of the ParisVienna route as a priority project.
Nevertheless, in view of the planned swift commencement of work on the Munich-Verona route, I shall be supporting the compromise reached, since this project is of the utmost importance to the Länder of western Austria.
With regard to financing, I should like to draw attention to the fact, in conclusion, that the Austrian Parliament recently decided, on the initiative of the social democrat Transport Minister, to invest some ÖS 60 billion in transport infrastructure in the near future.
This is a measure which should set an example to all the Member States of the European Union.
