Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on the posting of workers carried out in the framework of the provision of services is one that is urgently needed.
The 'shareholder value' principle is very fashionable nowadays, and is put before human dignity on the spurious grounds that freedom of movement for workers should not be restricted, or on some other such grounds.
I should just like to describe the circumstances of workers who come to Germany from the United Kingdom, Portugal or the countries of Eastern Europe.
They earn between DM 5 and DM 8 per hour, and live in shacks or porta cabins in very cramped conditions.
Since they cannot afford to eat in restaurants, they live on bread and sausage, just so that they have some money left to take home to their families.
What about their human dignity, I ask myself?
In my view, workers within and outside the EU must at last be placed on an equal footing.
What is more, no one mentions the fact that these practices distort competition.
Certain EU countries have already introduced excellent counter-measures; others are filling their coffers because they have not yet passed any such legislation.
To my mind, the Commission must prevent such distortions of competition; that is its job.
At the same time, it would be clamping down on economic crime and the social abuses connected with these practices.
I believe that this directive will brook no delay.
I therefore agree with Mr Peter that neither positive nor negative amendments should be accepted.
We shall reject them all, because we should not hold up the directive any longer and give the Council an opportunity to stall things once again.
I am most grateful to my colleague Mr Peter and to the Commissioner for having set the ball rolling.
I would just say a further word about media interest.
If we had been discussing the European limited company, there would have been several television crews in the gallery.
Unfortunately, when this subject is under discussion, they are not here!
