Mr President, may I take the Gillis report on set-aside as an opportunity, to point something out to you, ladies and gentlemen, to the Commission, and above all to the Council.
In 1993, the Council and the Commission increased the base area in the new L채nder of the Federal Republic of Germany, in the long term by 180, 000 hectares and temporarily by 150, 000 hectares.
This had been preceded by a spectacular abortive development in the processing industry, and enormous areas of arable, fodder and potato land became grandes cultures .
In spite of this 1993 decision, by the time the 1994 harvest came round, even the increased base area had already been clearly exceeded again.
In 1996 it is likely to be exceeded again.
This process will worsen if, as planned, from 1997 onwards this temporary 150, 000 ha of base area has to be given back in four stages.
Since today there are already about 160, 000 ha missing in the territory of the new L채nder, this missing base area would be increased to over 300, 000 ha, and that would be approximately equivalent to an 8 % risk of sanctions.
That is intolerable.
This kind of excess cannot be observed in any other Member State of the European Union, but then no other Member State was experiencing such a fundamental restructuring process at the time when the base areas were defined.
For that reason it was only possible to make forecasts about developments in agriculture in the new L채nder.
Now it has been shown that some of these forecasts do not correspond to what has actually happened.
In view of this situation, any dismantling of the base area temporarily allocated cannot be justified at the present time, especially when this would lead to considerable displeasure and lack of understanding among the farmers affected by it.
Therefore, against the background of the debate about a further lowering of the set-aside rate to 5 % from now on, I should once again like to draw attention to the amendment that I proposed at the time of the Gillis report, at the November 1995 part-session, in which I asked for the suspension of the dismantling of the base-area allocated to the new L채nder at a level of 150, 000 ha, for a specific period of two years.
