Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE Group also regards inland waterways as an environmentally-friendly and safe element of the transport sector.
This may be underrated as a means of transport, but it deserves the support and respect of Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
Mr van der Waal's report and the Commission's proposals were, quite simply, a joy to read as far as we were concerned, because of the very positive approach they adopted towards the subjects of chartering, pricing, restructuring and the rules on aid.
We welcome the fact that market distortions caused by the chartering by rotation system, for example, and overcapacity are to be eliminated by the scrapping fund and the 'old for new' system.
But we also need to provide aid to improve or modernize our inland waterway transport.
The Commission's attitude and Mr van der Waal's work on this issue were very encouraging, but we have been very disappointed at the Council's refusal to adopt so many of our amendments.
However, we are prepared to do what the rapporteur has asked by being sensible and not retabling all our amendments again.
We would, of course, have been delighted if the Council had allocated more aid for this extremely important but underrated sector.
The chartering by rotation system, which distorts the market and in some areas even means that the prices charged for carrying the same load over the same distance differ by up to 100 %, could also have been phased out earlier.
However, we are convinced that what we are doing now is an important step.
We still insist on keeping some of our amendments, and we feel that any firms which leave the sector voluntarily should be given some kind of social assistance to help them.
The aid which the Member States currently provide for the transport sector, which faces such fierce competition, could also be supplemented by aid from the European Union.
Working on the principle that a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush, we are prepared to accept these proposals and do as Mr van der Waal suggested.
