Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it has taken a long time from the Green Paper on the development of the postal services to today's date when we can finally discuss the Commission's proposal for a directive at first reading.
And it is high time we do so, given that the Commission is still threatening to set up competition rules for the postal services pursuant to Article 90(3), which would totally destroy our work here in the European Parliament.
Let me begin by raising four points which we in the Group of the European People's Party regarded as central to our work on this proposal for a directive.
First, the efforts which some Member States have already made to liberalize their postal services must not be cancelled out by the European Union.
The postal services are fully or almost fully liberalized in Scandinavia while there are some other European countries that have not yet made any efforts as regards their postal services.
That is why we must make sure that the margin for play set by this directive is broad enough to ensure that liberalized markets are not monopolized again and that those countries that have not so far made any efforts in this direction finally take action to improve their postal service.
The margin for play must, however, lie with the Member States, we cannot prescribe what to do from Europe.
Secondly, we want as much competition as possible, as much monopoly as necessary.
I place great value on that too.
On the one hand we need competition to improve quality - you can speak later, Florus, will you please let me speak in peace now! - and also in order to control prices.
On the other hand we need a long-term secure provision for the rural and peripheral areas of the European Union.
And that is why we also need a monopoly.
Thirdly, we note that the quality of cross-border postal traffic is pathetic.
I say that quite plainly: it is pathetic.
Let me give you an example.
For the past 500 years it has taken five days to send a letter from Augsburg where I live to Brussels; in spite of trains, in spite of planes, the speed remains the same as in the days of the mail coach.
You are all familiar with the rule that holiday postcards to friends and relatives always arrive a week after your return from holiday.
We could never establish the situation as it unfortunately actually is through a directive.
We want uniform and good quality standards throughout Europe.
Fourthly, we want a fair distribution of charges for cross-border post, a very important point that has already been made.
Unfortunately the Commission did not grasp this nettle.
I think we will take a good decision on this question in Parliament today, which I hope the Council will also accept.
These principles I have sketched out are reflected in the amendments which the Group of the European People's Party has tabled again.
Amendments Nos 70 and 79 ensure that the universal service is restricted to what is absolutely necessary, so that we can have a good basic provision in Europe, for we consider that important too, but can also allow as much competition as possible in Europe.
Amendment No 71 to Article 13 is intended to ensure that in areas where competition already exists within the universal service, it is not cancelled out again by a uniform tariff, however rational that may be in other areas.
Naturally we do not want that.
Amendment No 81 to Article 14 determines how the question of remailing and the payment of terminal dues for incoming mail from abroad should be regulated for the long term.
I call on the Commission here and now to submit the appropriate proposals, based on our amendments, which I know the Socialists intend to support, as soon as possible so that we can tackle this problem.
I would also like to point out that we should take the German version of this amendment as our basis, because the different language versions interpret it differently; I consider that very important.
Finally, in Amendment No 72 to Article 15 we propose that the question of crosssubsidies between the reserved sector and the competition sector should be examined not by the national regulative body but by an independent auditor.
The advantage of that is that the universal service does not then have to make all its calculations available to the public.
We do not want to allow crosssubsidies but nor do we want measures that distort competition to be prescribed here.
The Group of the European People's Party will support the compromises we reached in the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the reserved sector - although we see that as a maximum definition - and on the question of open access to the network.
I regard that as a good road to pursue.
Let me thank all Members, and particularly Mr Simpson, for their cooperative attitude and for enabling us to discuss the various points in a spirit of friendly cooperation.
