Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we do not agree with this report and with the direction proposed by the Commission.
Cereal stocks in the EU have been reduced.
That was the aim of the Commission's policy, or at least that is what it said at the time.
Now we have reduced the cereal stocks.
Prices on the world market have recovered, because the EU, amongst others, is not acting so aggressively in the market, and also because there is greater demand.
Now the area of cereal-growing land in the EU is to be expanded.
Production will increase by 8.5 million tonnes.
That means that the surplus situation will once again worsen.
As the Commission says, 38 million tonnes are to be taken into storage and will be available for export, but not at the prices that can be obtained on the world market, but at prices more redolent of the old familiar dumping system.
It is also clear that this reduction from 10 % to 5 % - as calculated by the Committee on Budgets - will cost 17 million in the first year, 50 million in 1996/97 and a further 30 million in 1997/98.
In other words, tax-payers' money will be used to bring cereals onto the world market, cereals which are not necessary and which do not need to be grown.
If, in spite of all this, we agree to the report anyway, it is because we have succeeded in inserting an amendment to the effect that pulses, i.e. fodder, can be grown on set-aside land, and that this fodder can also be used by farmers to feed their own livestock.
The bigger groups have made it clear that they will approve the report.
That makes it possible for us to approve this resolution and this report because, within the framework of the 30 % voluntary set-aside rate, fodder can still be grown.
We now hope that the Commission will take this on board, and that in future we shall be able to grow fodder on this land.
After all, fodder is in short supply in the EU, and it should be grown in a way that makes crop rotation more ecologically acceptable, by increasing the soil's nitrogen content by growing pulses and clover/grass leys, thereby reducing the use of chemical fertilizers.
In this case, we shall approve the resolution with a somewhat guilty conscience, and afterwards we shall ask the Commission, before the vote, whether it is prepared to accept our resolution.
I hope that it will do so!
