Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gradin, we keep managing to describe new cases of fraud here in Parliament.
We also keep managing to have them taken up by the media who report on them.
But what we really should manage to do is to establish an effective procedure to deal with it.
The international media pay little tribute to our endeavours in that direction.
However, we must also acknowledge that there are reasons for that.
Several speakers have said that there are considerable gaps in the fight against fraud, considerable gaps in the fight to protect the Community's financial interests, gaps that exist in the Community and in the Member States.
The efforts made by the European Parliament have not been without success, as we know, but often lead nowhere.
What we really need is an overall strategy.
We must not be tempted always just to discuss the details of individual reports.
Otherwise our efforts will go unnoticed.
Article 209a on the protection of the Community's financial interests which provides that the Member States shall take the same measures to protect the Community's interests as to protect their own interests is not sufficient, nor is it being implemented.
We need concrete proposals and we do not need a purely sectoral approach.
However much the convention might help, it remains weak and I am firmly convinced that neither this Community convention nor the additional protocols will be ratified in the next five or more years.
What we really need is a Community directive which establishes a common definition of criminal offences and equivalent forms of criminal prosecution and the participation of the Community bodies in criminal proceedings.
That is the minimum requirement.
I personally give warm thanks to Mrs Theato and Mrs Wemheuer for their reports, which have helped to raise our common awareness of this subject.
In Mrs Wemheuer's report I attach particular importance to the request that work programmes, risk analyses and annual reports be linked more clearly and that in these reports the Commission must very clearly describe the rather slow development of the legal bases.
In any case, we can only take preventive or even deterrent action in this fight - without which the whole thing is pointless - if we really do play the game boldly against the Member States and the Council.
Let it try to stop us!
And then we will say quite openly who is stopping us.
