Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this directive on pressure equipment is intended to harmonize the national regulations in this field which have been in force up to now.
The very scope of the directive - from fire extinguishers, pressure vessels and valves to entire chemical plants - indicates the wide range of subjects to be covered.
It is in our economic interests to have a harmonized system of European rules providing a high degree of safety, and that is what this common position gives us.
The directive covers only products which present a high potential risk of danger, and I think this is the only sensible approach here.
I would point out that any alteration to the directive could jeopardize the compromise which it has taken two and a half years of hard bargaining to reach, and I therefore feel it is vital that we should exercise some restraint when it comes to proposing amendments.
At the same time, I think we have to take another look at Annex I, section 7, which is simply a list of technical numerical values.
The PPE Group feels that this departs from the agreed line, which was that annexes containing only technical figures should be avoided in this kind of directive.
We therefore intend to ask for a separate vote on this tomorrow, in order to ensure that the directive can at least be discussed again through the conciliation procedure.
I hope that the PSE Group will be able to support this move, so that we can at least go to conciliation.
One further point in the directive which I feel I should mention is the aim of giving manufacturers more responsibility in risk evaluation, which I know the technical monitoring institutes are not happy about.
We feel, however, that it should be one of the manufacturers' responsibilities to identify any risks associated with the manufacturing of equipment and to take these risks into account in the design and assembly processes.
We therefore feel that this directive both increases responsibility and helps towards deregulation, which is something that the PPE Group welcomes.
