Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, let me begin my statement by apologizing to the President of Parliament.
Mr President, I confess myself guilty of laughing loudly during the statement by the President-in-Office of the Council.
In this one case I plead mitigating circumstances, for the presidency of the Council really did provoke this loud laughter.
But in future I promise to stifle my laughter even if the presidency of the Council insists on giving us details about the undertakings given by Mrs Çiller.
Mr President, a year ago we agreed in this Parliament, and held passionate debates on it, that we want closer relations with Turkey and that we would also agree to customs union provided certain conditions were met.
These conditions are, let me repeat, human rights, democratic reforms, a solution to the Cyprus problem and also to the Kurdish question.
None of these conditions had been met by the end of December 1995 but nevertheless some of us believed the assurances given by the presidency of the Council, by the Commission and above all by the Turkish Government.
I am still keeping a letter that Mrs Çiller sent me and the other 626 Members of this Parliament in which she asks us to help her so that she can achieve all this.
I have kept the letter because it is not every day that I receive letters from prime ministers.
Rereading this letter today could make one laugh again till the tears come, for no promises have been kept.
It is not just that the situation in Turkey in each of these four areas has worsened, but Mrs Çiller has misused our help in order to actually bring into power the very person she wanted to keep out.
Now the President-in-Office of the Council comes along and tells us that Mrs Çiller has agreed, that she would like to think about what the presidency of the Council said to her.
Surely that cannot be taken seriously any more, Mr President-in-Office!
You forgot to tell us what Mrs André said a while ago, namely that the European Court of Human Rights condemned Turkey a few days ago.
You did not say a word about Turkey's intention to set up a security zone in northern Iraq.
After all, the European Union ought to adopt a position on that.
All I can say, ladies and gentlemen, is that we really must show Turkey that we are serious about what we said and the only possibility I think that remains today is to freeze all funds for Turkey.
