Mr President, there is no anti-British climate, either in the House or in our group.
There is, however, a British Government which is irresponsibly banking on political and administrative pressure and creating an atmosphere in which nationalist chauvinism can rear its head again, which we should scarcely have thought possible.
And there is a British Government which, by means of this political and administrative pressure, is preventing the necessary measures in the United Kingdom that could lead to effective suppression of this disease.
Mr Fischler, this morning you have again been speaking of 'could' , ' should' and 'ought to' with reference to the measures that the British Government must introduce.
You do not tell us what the British Government has done, because it has to be assumed that, apart from exerting political pressure, it has not done very much.
It is true that the suppression of BSE cannot be restricted to the export ban alone.
It is a European problem, as we have always said, not an English disease, so we all have responsibility to bear.
But at a time when political pressure is being applied, a decision to relax restrictions sends the wrong signal and has nothing to do with scientific findings or responsible behaviour!
It is true, Commissioner, that the products to be derestricted - gelatine and tallow - do not belong to the most dangerous category and are ultraheat-treated, but, as you will also be aware, the latest findings show that this process does not kill the pathogens but only reduces their activity.
And how you want to explain the lifting of the ban on bulls' sperm, when it is perfectly clear that the disease is transmissible from one generation to the next, is beyond me.
I believe it is time to return to an objective discussion focused on BSE and to explore seriously every possible scientific avenue.
The Commission should also present a plan at long last laying down the means by which, notwithstanding the present epidemic, proper beef production can be ensured, we shall no longer need to talk about BSE or to discuss any future antibiotics scandals, European agriculture can be set to rights and we can inspire confidence among consumers, sustained confidence that will endure beyond the present BSE scandal.
Our group originally wanted to approve this joint resolution.
We assumed that the Commission had not yet reached its final decision.
We enquired about the scientific findings in order to substantiate our decision.
But now you have crossed the Rubicon.
The die is cast.
That is why our group can no longer subscribe to this resolution.
We retract our signature.
We are opposed to a relaxation at this point in time and on the basis of the available findings.
