Mr President, Commissioner, Members of this midnight sitting, standardization is of course not do to just with the familiar example of the electrical socket but extends from the video cassette to hotel classifications or the chip card for using tourist facilities.
When I was dealing with this subject it struck me that the Euro would also represent a very important example of standardization, although of course that is not the issue today.
I would like to thank the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, the Committee on External Economic Relations and the Committee on Transport and Tourism, together with their draftsmen Mr Ferber, Mr Pex and Mr Cornelissen, for their opinions.
We have taken very serious account of their proposals.
That also applies to the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Unfortunately we could not deal with the new amendments tabled in committee.
I am very sorry about that, but they are there and I will be saying a few words about them.
Of course the report cannot discuss all the policy areas in detail.
After all, we have four or five new standards in the European Union every day and this would go far beyond the framework of the report.
But who participates in standardization?
At national and European level it is business, industry, small and medium-sized enterprises, the consumers and of course the bodies responsible for standardization.
But let us not forget the international level, which goes beyond Europe, and here I would just mention the ISO standards as an example.
This horizontal and vertical structure alone reveals the complexity of the process of establishing standards, for on the one hand people expect standards, on the other hand these standards should not dominate or impose too many requirements.
On the one hand we want adaptation, on the other we do not want too much conformity or uniformity.
Science and research must also play a part and be involved.
But there must also be the widest possible margin for a voluntary approach to establishing standards without any influencing by politicians or authorities.
That shows how complex the standardization process is.
Discussion between the various parties will also ensure that standards are not developed over-hastily or produce results that might prove inadequate.
It is a fact that criticism of the recently decided standards that are being implemented has remained within bounds.
But improvements are still possible.
We must make it possible for all parties concerned to participate and also urge them to commit themselves to this and encourage the necessary training.
Apart from larger industries, this applies in particular to small and medium-sized undertakings, whose representatives we must support.
Of course support always means a certain amount of financial aid.
Consumer representatives should also receive the necessary support.
In this context I would like to say that I have heard that the budget appropriations for standardization activities by consumer representatives are apparently to be cut from ECU 750 000 to ECU 250 000.
That would surely conflict with what we too have decided here.
In paragraphs 8, 9, 10 and 11 we emphasize the need to ensure that small and medium-sized undertakings, which we have already discussed today, are given an opportunity to become involved through training and information measures.
So I would ask for this question to be reviewed, for we do not want to give the impression that the we want to exclude these undertakings from the standardization process.
Of course we are in favour of cooperation between CEN, CENELEC and ETSI, so that we do not have a multi-track system, and of ensuring the internal efficiency of the organizations, to which the CEN optimization programme has indeed already made some contribution.
Another important aspect, as mentioned earlier, is international cooperation with the ISO.
Strong products coming from abroad or from other economic blocs can point the way to future standards.
That means that dominant standards that are developed outside Europe also influence production.
So any group that does not take part in standardization may face economic disadvantages.
Standardization therefore also has an important part to play in improving competition with third countries.
I will now turn briefly to the new amendments, which unfortunately were tabled belatedly and not discussed in committee.
Basically we agree with the content of Amendment No 1.
However, it calls for account to be taken of the Treaty provisions of Article 130 r(2).
Well, that is obvious, given that we all believe in respecting the Treaty and it is simply not possible to list all the provisions of the Treaty again in a single report.
Second comment: of course I am also in favour of the necessary standardization of aeroplane components, but I will try to table an oral amendment so that we do not necessarily have to name the body that is to be set up and made responsible for standardization in Europe at this point.
Of course it is also important to take due account of any relevant environmental aspects, but I do not believe that means handing over any legislative power to the standardization bodies.
I am therefore not in favour of Amendment No 3.
Thank you for allowing me to exceed my speaking time somewhat!
