Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I wish to congratulate Mr Sindal on his excellent report on the Commission's communication on the development of short sea shipping in Europe.
With just a few amendments, the Commission's guidelines and action programme will be extremely effective.
But as my colleague Mr Jarzembowski never tires of pointing out, the general policy on seaports, formulated almost in passing and in an annex, is unacceptable in its present form, since it goes far beyond the promotion of short sea shipping.
A reasonable level of mobility in the long term depends on more flexible and efficient transport infrastructures and rational connections between them.
From this point of view above all, but also for environmental and regional policy reasons, I warmly welcome all those aspects which help to shift goods traffic from the roads to coastal waters.
This can only be done if, firstly, the fleet, port structures and links with the port hinterlands are modernized; secondly, if there is greater transparency of the services on offer, port taxes and port administration structures; thirdly, if there is coordination between the funding of public and private infrastructure; and, fourthly, if administrative procedures are simplified.
It is interesting that short sea shipping is finally being regarded as a complex form of service transport: in transport terms, it is thus part of the door-to-door transport chain, and so in direct competition with road haulage.
Short sea shipping must therefore become simpler, cheaper and more efficient in terms of transport times.
The Committee on Regional Policy tabled some amendments at a very early stage.
The thrust of these is contained in the Commission's original text, or the rapporteur has picked up on the linguistic nuances and incorporated them into his report.
For these reasons alone, and not on grounds of content, our group is proposing to reject the majority of these amendments.
A new element raised in Amendment No 3 is the effect of the development of short sea shipping on the creation and preservation of jobs in EU shipyards.
We should therefore support this amendment.
