Presidents, let me take up the words spoken by President Hänsch, ' people are not against Europe but do not know why they should be for it' , and by Pauline Green, who spoke of stagnation and paralysis because of the lack of progress in the Intergovernmental Conference, and also by Willi Görlach who said that at present the EU is in the hands of the ministers of finance.
Through our activities we must give the people of Europe reason to be pro-European, i.e., we must find solutions to the burning problems and concerns of the people.
We must produce ideas.
What do the citizens want?
You know that we will be holding elections in Austria in three weeks' time.
In spite of the high level of employment and high social standard in Austria, our citizens' first wish is to see employment and high social standards in Europe.
So long as we still have politicians here like Mr Voggenhuber from the Greens, who spoke before me, who fuel unjustified fears and tell the people that monetary union means cuts in social welfare, it is difficult for the other politicians here who want to work for Europe.
We need to incorporate a chapter on employment in the EU Treaties with control mechanisms to monitor the Member States' employment policies, but we also need a larger budget.
Pauline Green called for a reduction in the agricultural budget.
That is my view too.
We have to invest in social programmes, in research programmes and above all in educational programmes.
For education, training and further training are very closely linked to employment.
Young people can see the advantages of EU membership in the training and occupational field - as emerged from a survey we recently conducted in Austria.
It is taking increasing part in the European programmes.
That is where it sees the chances for Europe.
So let us also give the young people of Europe a chance by increasing the funding for this.
It is equally important that we resolve environmental questions and set high environmental standards.
And a final point: I am very glad that next year will be the year of combatting xenophobia, racism and nazism.
Le Pen's most recent statements prove how important that is.
Combatting racism and xenophobia is just as important to peace and security in Europe as combatting drugs and crime, as the endeavours to establish a common security and foreign policy.
