Mr President, combatting unemployment is the top priority for the Union.
We must find new ways of tackling this major political and social challenge, but we have to ensure that our ideas are practicable.
Mr Rocard addresses himself in this own-initiative report to the reduction of working hours.
He notes with some surprise that this topic has hardly been discussed until now, and presumes that it is too daunting.
He is mistaken!
Many attempts to reduce working time and recruit new staff have proved impossible to put into practice.
The Volkswagen model of a four-day week is not universally valid, neither in the automobile industry nor in other sectors.
Work-sharing is a defensive strategy; to defeat unemployment we need new, competitive jobs.
We need an overall political context which will promote growth and create the right climate for investment and innovation.
Only a competitive economy can provide scope for flexible changes in working time.
All of this is missing from the Rocard report.
Very few countries would be able to carry out the proposal that the funds saved on unemployment benefits should be redistributed by the authorities to compensate for loss of earnings.
If the consequence of this is dirigisme , it is quite irreconcilable with our view of industrial relations.
We believe that working hours should be determined by collective agreements, geared to a company's needs and work processes, and negotiated by the two sides of industry.
Our doubts as to the accuracy of the tidy sum estimated by Mr Rocard at ECU 350 billion have not been allayed.
These funds are not a financial reserve which can be disposed of at will.
Instead, the task of the Member States must be to cut back on unnecessary expenditure, in order to curb national debt and achieve stability.
The idea that it is hard to increase productivity in the public sector is provocative and untrue.
As PPE Group members of the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment, we have managed to give the Rocard report a facelift.
Moreover, the rapporteur has accepted nearly all the amendments submitted by our group under the heading of 'the adaptation of working hours' .
By doing so, he has departed from the initial idea of a Commission study looking solely at reduced working time.
The original version provided for a recommendation which already set out the conditions for cutting working hours: in other words, the analysis was to have been performed, but its outcome was a foregone conclusion for the rapporteur - that is how an expensive study can turn into a cheap farce.
The attitude of the Group of the European People's Party is unequivocal: we are in favour of a sensible, flexible adaptation of working time.
We favour more voluntary part-time work, geared to company requirements and employment patterns.
We also favour a smooth transition to retirement and part-time work for older workers.
All of this must be included in the Commission study.
