Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in this document, local development and employment initiatives have finally achieved Europe-wide recognition of their importance as an essential instrument in combatting unemployment.
If the obstacles that often help to make those initiatives so short-lived could only be removed, and if the initiatives themselves could be encouraged as described in the strategy document and enlarged upon in Parliament's report, then the unemployment rate could be halved by the year 2000.
For the last fifteen years, local development and employment initiatives in areas of industrial decline have been preventing regions from dying out, by means of effective management and innovative projects.
We are now asking Member States to delay no longer in implementing this strategy, and to include capital for local employment and development initiatives in all their multiannual employment programmes.
Seventeen service areas, in which local authorities have been involved up to now, must not, however, lead to a situation in which women are dismissed from occupations requiring a high level of qualification, and forced to work in badly paid sectors.
It is essential, therefore, that in these areas identified as options for employment initiatives there should also be appropriate remuneration, and it should be possible to obtain vocational qualifications, and also, it goes without saying, people should be able to operate independently and responsibly.
The 10 % that has so far been spent on local employment initiatives is nowhere near enough.
We are asking for a significant increase.
I would be looking for a figure of 25-30 %.
However, it must be emphasized that the whole problem of mass unemployment cannot be solved by local employment and development initiatives alone, even though they are an important factor.
Nevertheless, it is disappointing that the paper by Mrs Wulf-Mathies, Mr Flynn, Mr Fischler and Mrs Bonino does not include a substantial section on local employment initiatives, despite the fact that it is important that even now, within the current structural-funds period, a move towards more employment should be made possible, by means of precisely such innovative projects.
We are asking the Member States to rapidly demolish the obstacles that they have so far set up in the way of such local employment initiatives.
There are legal and administrative obstacles, and above all there is the sectorallyoriented thinking on the part of the administrative authorities.
Above all else, we are asking the Commission finally to change its policies, which have to date had a deleterious effect on local employment initiatives, and we are asking that this type of policy, which has had the effect of concentrating and polarizing economic power within central authorities, as a result of the trans-European networks, will finally be reconsidered!
