Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, of course the Commission proposal is rather late in coming.
Something is not right with the bureaucracy in Brussels.
I fear that this delay will continue in the field.
With these aid measures, the reconstruction in Bosnia-Herzegovina and Croatia could be ready for take-off if the conditions demanded by Parliament were really enforced.
One of the preconditions is of course that the refugees can return.
Another is that freedom of movement in Bosnia-Herzegovina should be restored - something that should have happened by the end of March, but did not.
When the former Foreign Minister of Bosnia and current UN Ambassador can only travel to Banja Luka after three years under the protection of European parliamentarians, how can an ordinary mortal move around freely in that country?
How do our EU authorities in the field act in the event of violations?
I wonder whether indeed they do support projects the benefits of which only go, if at all, to part of the population or end up completely in the pockets of war profiteers.
And, if we take our principles and conditions seriously, we must be able, wherever there are ruined houses, to force the local authorities into allowing the owners to return and then to help these people financially in the rebuilding work.
In order to secure such an accommodating attitude on the part of the local authorities, supplementary economic or training projects could be financed on a local basis.
In this way, our taxes could be very well spent and achieve optimum benefit.
Such aid in the field would enhance the possibilities of repatriation for refugees currently living in our countries, which would in turn ease the financial burden on our communities.
The approach which seems to be adopted only too often by the High Representative, namely to give even-handedly to everyone and rather to turn a blind eye to gross violations of the Dayton Agreement, is the wrong one in my opinion and does not hold out much hope of really achieving our current aims.
