Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Burtone for his report.
In the light of the figures for 1995 on the drugs problem in Germany, I would urge that the main drugs policy priorities should be measures to educate people about the dangers of those substances which, sadly, are still all too often dismissed as party drugs, and preventive measures to tackle the causes of the problem.
It is alarming to see the sharp rise in demand for synthetic drugs, particularly Ecstasy, and the careless attitude that people take to these pep-pills, with no thought of the dangers involved.
Hopefully, effective addiction prevention measures will succeed in reducing the demand, as they have done in the case of heroin.
I should also like to voice my opposition to any liberalization of drugs, in order to counter the expectation of rising demand.
Europe is still seen as a lucrative market where there are profits to be made.
At the same time, any tendency towards liberalization and legalization has the effect of playing down the dangers of illegal drugs and is the greatest obstacle to prevention.
Reference is always made in these debates to the consequences of alcohol and nicotine abuse.
Not only should these problems be mentioned, but they should be seen as a clear warning, so that we do not end up with the same problems by making soft drugs freely available.
As a practising pharmacist, I oppose any attempt to make hashish or marijuana available from chemists, since that would mean putting drugs on a par with medicines.
Instead, I would like to see new models and progress in the area of aid and therapy for drug users, including methadone substitution, though only in the context of therapeutic and psycho-social accompanying measures.
We need to offer improved and more specific counselling and treatment for those who are in danger from, or dependent on, drugs, and their families.
Let us support the concept of living without drugs or addictive substances, and let us not trivialize these problems by engaging in a debate that blurs the issues.
