Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament and the Council have decided on a uniform set-aside rate of 10 % for the 1995/96 crop year.
This rate also applies from now on to long-term fallow.
Now there is some discussion about cutting this rate to 5 %, because world cereal stocks have gone down and the prices of maize and wheat have risen, and I think that we need cereals.
At the same time, I welcome the fact that the proposal has been made earlier than on previous occasions, because farmers need this information in order to draw up their crop plans, which they have to do very soon.
For this reason, it is particularly important to have the information in July, so than they can plan in good time.
Set-aside has proved its worth as a means of doing away with market surpluses and restoring market equilibrium.
I too am not in favour of high set-aside rates, but I am in favour - and I am addressing our French colleagues here - of our using this land to grow renewable raw materials.
In Germany we now grow almost 5 % of renewable raw materials.
Nature offers us a wide range of substances that can be used for many different purposes: carbohydrates, oils, fats, proteins, fibres, dyestuffs, and certain ingredients needed by industry.
I also foresee good opportunities for biodegradable and recyclable materials for packaging and for internal parts of vehicles, and in agriculture for the combustion of solid biomass for heating and power generation.
But we should also not forget the use of set-aside land to grow clover/grass leys, with the proviso that the farmer would be obliged to use these to feed his own livestock.
Finally, the positive environmental aspects of renewable raw materials, such as carbon-dioxide neutrality and biodegradability, should be counted as advantages.
I am therefore not in favour of set-aside in itself, but I am in favour of farmers producing raw materials that industry will be able to use in future, because we shall very soon have enough cereals again, and I can tell you that with absolute certainty!
