Madam President, may I congratulate the President-in-Office on the priorities of the Irish presidency for a Europe that meets the needs of its people.
The first and surely the most important priority to everyone in Europe relates to employment and in particular to the continued development of a Pact of Confidence on Employment in which special attention is to be focused on the problems of young people, the long-term unemployed and women.
Since declarations of intent are virtually all we have seen so far, it is now time for practical implementation, and I can only reemphasize your statement, President Spring, in which you stressed that job creation is the overriding challenge for all of our Governments.
I consider it especially important that the Irish presidency has emphasized the role of the partnership between management and labour, the importance of small and medium-sized businesses and the promotion of local employment and development initiatives.
Our efforts to underpin the EMU project in particular need to be accompanied by energetic labour-market strategies.
But as someone involved in education policy, I am especially pleased when I hear lifelong access to education and training being mentioned in the same breath as employment, and I am delighted that a separate chapter on education and young people has been included in the programme.
As you know, we are currently discussing the Commission White Paper on teaching and learning, a sequel to the Delors White Paper on growth, competitiveness and employment.
As with your priorities, Mr President, what we are concerned with here is the quality of education, a lifelong learning process and teacher training.
Unimpeded lifelong access to general and vocational education is the best weapon in the fight against marginalization and the division of European society into a society of 'knows' and 'don't knows' .
I am also pleased that a point about cultural cooperation is contained in the programme and that there are plans to conduct a debate during the Irish presidency on European cultural policy, including media policy and the Community's cultural action programmes.
Although culture is the very soul of Europe as well as an important means of bringing the Community closer to many of its citizens, its significance is still underestimated.
In addition, it is important to find ways of helping our young people to identify with European ideals.
The third priority after employment and the fight against drug abuse is the creation of a Union based on equal treatment and tolerance, which is why precedence must be given to addressing issues such as equality of opportunity, social exclusion, transparency and the fight against racism and xenophobia.
This is an important aspect of our policies for peace and security, whether they seek to promote the process for peace in Northern Ireland, which all of us in Europe so fervently desire, or to establish an outgoing Europe that plays an active part in the quest for peace, security and solidarity.
