Commissioner, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ten years of effort - little to show.
That, sadly, is the stark summary of developments since the Chernobyl reactor accident, for the RBMK-type reactors, fifteen in number, which are universally acknowledged to be unsafe, are still operating, in particular No 1 Reactor and No 3 Reactor at Chernobyl.
Secondly, the concrete casing of the entombed reactor is unsafe and unstable.
It urgently requires an additional shell, all the more so since the No 3 Reactor is right beside it.
Thirdly, the human misery goes on.
The environment is contaminated by caesium; skin diseases, cancers and depopulation are the typical long-term effects.
To reiterate the point in plain terms, the nuclear risk has not lessened since 1986 but has remained exactly the same.
That is why we must all work together in order to take a step forward.
No-one can master this mammoth task alone - neither the Ukrainians, nor the EU, nor the industrialized nations.
We must operate hand in hand.
The European Union has already invested many million ECUs.
The Commissioner has kindly given us a very comprehensive account of this effort.
We shall do even more.
We want to provide more help.
It is not easy for Ukraine to decommission the Chernobyl plant.
Chernobyl covers six to seven per cent of national energy requirements.
Decommissioning costs a lot of money.
That is why those responsible need assistance.
But we also know that the Ukraine is one of the most energy-intensive countries in the world.
The Ukrainians consume most energy per head of population.
We are also aware, on the other hand, that energy demand has fallen rapidly since 1990 and that there is no reliable least-cost planning analysis of the situation or an in-depth analysis of the actual energy demand and an efficient strategy for meeting it.
So when it comes to assistance in the domain of energy supply, Parliament and the Group of the Party of European Socialists will ensure that top priority is given to mechanisms for efficient supply.
Additional means of meeting the demand for energy, such as combined gas and steam turbine plants, can also be discussed, of course.
There is a realistic prospect of supplying energy without Chernobyl, without power stations.
We shall not let ourselves be pressurized into immediate unbridled construction of new power stations, as was suggested in one of today's newspapers.
The year 2000 is the agreed target date for abandonment, and that is the target for which we must all continue to aim.
