Mr President, we agreed to the customs union with Turkey even though we saw many problems, which have still not been resolved today.
We can quarrel here about the reliability and political statements of Mrs Çiller - at present she has enough to do coping with her own problems - but the fact is that the situation has worsened since the Erbakan government and after Prime Minister Yilmaz, who started out well in my opinion.
The human rights situation has become considerably more difficult, as Mr Moorhouse pointed out.
The new government gives cause for serious doubt about its resolve to make any reliable attempts to improve the human rights situation in Europe.
Our NATO partner Turkey is moving in a new direction and Mr Erbakan does not want to be a hindrance in Europe but would prefer to be a leading power in the Islamic world.
In fact 23 % of the world population does support Islam and the Islamic faith can be found in more than 100 states.
The conflicts with Greece in Cyprus and with the Kurds have become exacerbated and it is our duty not to fan the flames any further in this difficult situation.
Nor has the internal political and economic situation in Turkey itself improved - inflation, unemployment, the problems with the PKK - and we quite simply have to ask ourselves, however much sympathy we have for what our Greek colleagues have said today, how we want to shape our relations with Turkey in future.
That is the question.
We cannot dodge that question.
Do we want to leave Turkey to make its own way or reject it?
That cannot be in our interests.
There cannot be stability and peace in the region without Turkey, only with Turkey.
Nor can it be in the interests of our Greek friends to see Turkey as a factor of instability in an Islamic world, facing away from Europe.
Should we revoke the customs union?
Constantly and emphatically call for an improvement in human rights and exert pressure: yes!
Put the customs union in question: no!
I am convinced that today's debate and the proposed freezing of funds from the MEDA programme could perhaps be the consequences following from Mr Van den Broek's report on human rights, but not the premise of his report, which he was not due to submit until the end of September from the outset.
We were already aware of that in early 1996.
Since Mr Van den Broek has always kept Parliament well and comprehensively informed, I do not understand paragraph 6 of the joint motion for a resolution and can only recommend that Parliament votes against it on this question.
We must do our utmost to ensure that even with an Islamic government Turkey keeps the European option open and does not turn away from us.
