Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the supposed giant looks huge from afar.
The closer you get, the smaller he gets.
When the Customs Union was adopted the European Parliament was playing that part, and that was the prelude to a play in three acts.
Act one: the European Parliament as a giant.
It set out three conditions: democratization, release of the Kurdish deputies, an end to the war and a political solution to the Kurdish question.
An end to a war that drove millions of people into flight, destroyed 3000 villages and cost countless people their lives.
Act two: the vote on Customs Union approaches.
The European Parliament's demands become softer.
The conditions become weaker.
Expressions of opinion die away.
Shortly before the vote Mrs Çiller is presented as a guarantor of democracy and a guarantor of a secular Turkey.
The argument gains ground that he who wants to put a stop to fundamentalism, to Erbakan, must be for Çiller, must support Çiller, must vote for Customs Union!
Act three: Customs Union is approved and what happens?
It does not take long at all for the alleged guarantor of democratic reforms to turn into the king-maker of this same Mr Erbakan.
It is most disturbing to find the Council continuing to believe in Mrs Çiller as a trustworthy guarantor.
Of democratization not a trace, of the release of Kurdish deputies not a word.
The entire leadership of the HEP party in prison and on trial last Thursday.
Twelve political prisoners dead from hunger strike.
Mr Mitchell, the state of emergency was not suspended, it was recently extended.
The war is escalating and continuing.
A buffer zone is to be set up and in Cyprus the conflict is becoming ever more violent and brutal.
We cannot accept the Council's strategy of: ' Continue as you were!
You have carte blanche' .
This Parliament agreed to Customs Union and now bears a special responsibility.
Responsibility means: fighting for a peaceful Turkey, for peaceful coexistence and for a democratic Turkey.
For people to tell us now to close our eyes, ears and mouths to reality is a cynical policy geared primarily to the interests of the European Union and not to the interests of democracy and human rights in Turkey.
But that unfortunately has become a tradition!
