Mr President, I should like to begin by complimenting Mrs Fontaine on her diligence and care in drawing up this document, and on her cooperative spirit, which has ultimately led to an excellent result.
I would appeal to Commissioner Monti: we really did not take this matter lightly, and we have, I believe, achieved a very good result.
The legal profession needs this directive, and I hope that the Commission will soon express an opinion on this matter and follow Parliament's proposals if at all possible.
Things are moving at last in the European legal profession.
The internal market has given rise to a good deal of cross-border economic activity: the creation of companies, mergers, subsidiaries and partnerships.
In addition, people are engaging to a growing extent in cross-border activities which are not merely economic.
Lawyers have seen themselves for too long as a part of their own national judicial system, and not as consultants whose services are also needed across borders.
I am extremely grateful to the CCBE, the association of European lawyers: it has made a major contribution to a fresh understanding of legal practice, and has been arguing for more than a decade in favour of facilitating the freedom of establishment for lawyers in other Member States.
Without the persistence and the helpful suggestions of the CCBE on the proposal for a directive which is now under discussion, we would not have reached this stage.
In the mid-1970s, in its landmark judgment in the Reyners case, the European Court of Justice ruled that legal practice was covered by the freedom to provide services and the freedom of establishment.
Twenty years later, we are at last making this principle of primary Community law a reality, at least in respect of the right of establishment.
After the 1977 directive on the provision of services and the 1988 directive on the recognition of higher education qualifications, the results of which - as the Commission has acknowledged - have not been satisfactory in practice, we now finally have a proposal for a directive to facilitate the establishment of lawyers.
This directive is a necessary one: firstly, it makes it clear that lawyers can establish themselves permanently in another Member State and practise the law of the host country, under the home-country title.
This did need clarifying, because despite the Court of Justice ruling of 30 November 1995 in the Gebhard case, doubt is still being cast on this right.
I would therefore draw attention to what is probably the most important sentence in that judgment: membership of a professional body cannot be regarded as a constitutive element of establishment.
Secondly, the integration of lawyers wishing to join the bar of the host country is to be facilitated.
They will no longer be expected to sit an aptitude test under the directive on the recognition of qualifications, but will be able to prove their aptitude by practising the profession for three years.
I would stress that this arrangement is in line with the case law of the Court of Justice, which made an important judgment in the Vlassopoulou case in 1981, at the time when the directive on the recognition of higher education qualifications had just been transposed.
This judgment obliges the Member States to take account of the title acquired by the lawyer in the home country to practise the same profession.
Should the knowledge and skills of the lawyer not correspond to the specific knowledge required in the host country, that country can demand that it be acquired differently, for example through practice.
This judgment therefore entitles lawyers to prove their ability by means of successful practice.
Thus the Vlassopoulou case forms the basis of the provisions for integration into the bar of the host country, as proposed by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizen's Rights.
The arrangement proposed by that committee, approved by a large majority of its members, is a fair and liberal one.
It is also courageous.
It demonstrates that European spirit which is so often lacking nowadays.
And since I have just said that the committee's proposal is a courageous one, I should now like to thank Mrs Fontaine not only for her diligence and her care, but also for her courage!
