Madam President, the Council has decided that the European Union is to be enlarged to include the states of central and eastern Europe, and the European Parliament supports that decision.
It represents both a historic challenge and an opportunity for all concerned.
For the first time, the states within the boundaries of Europe can become a community devoted to peace.
The closer we come to this step, however, the more discussion there will be of the details of enlargement.
The White Paper is a compendium of rules governing the working of the European internal market, and in the event of accession the candidates will also have to base their policies on the White Paper.
So that proper preparation can take place and excessive expectations and misleading arguments can be avoided, this subject must be systematically and seriously discussed in all its aspects.
It is clear, and has often been said, that while the European Union has to move, so too must the candidate states.
This report by Mr Oostlander can only be the starting-point for a thorough discussion.
As a budget expert, I should like to add that the Committee on Budgets, as Barry Wynn pointed out, will contribute to a wide-ranging discussion of this matter.
On 7 May the committee will stage a hearing on the financial aspects of enlarging the European Union, which will culminate in the use of its right of initiative to table a report.
The purpose of this, however, is not to demonstrate that the whole thing is too expensive but on the contrary to seek ways of achieving our political objectives, in other words enlargement, while bearing in mind that such schemes depend on popular support in both the European Union and the applicant countries.
Both the Oostlander report and the Christodoulou report on the financial aspects of enlargement are intended as a signal to the Council to institute concrete measures at the IGC and thereafter with regard to the forthcoming enlargement.
They are also meant to demonstrate that Parliament has already begun its work towards this end and intends to pursue it resolutely.
