Mr President, it was with shock and consternation that we witnessed the terrible events in Cyprus this summer.
After 22 years of Turkish occupation, in violation of international law, of more than one third of the territory of Cyprus, the violence has now escalated to a level that was scarcely considered possible.
Some media reports have wrongly given the impression that this is an inter-community dispute.
The fact is that unarmed Greek Cypriots who were demonstrating against the division of their country in the buffer zone were confronted with a massive show of Turkish military force and with members of the Grey Wolf fascist youth organization who had been brought specially.
Sixty-five billion Turkish lire were allocated by the Turkish treasury for the expedition conducted by this extremist organization.
So it was not a dispute between Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
Two young unarmed Cypriots were murdered by members of this terrorist group and by a Turkish occupation officer, others were seriously injured.
On behalf of my group I totally condemn these atrocious deeds.
Any constitutional state would automatically track down, arrest and prosecute the perpetrators.
In northern Cyprus, which is not a state and even less a constitutional state, one of the perpetrators was appointed minister of agriculture.
That is quite unbelievable!
These terrible events in Cyprus tell us nothing about the relations between the two ethnic groups.
Greek and Turkish Cypriots have the right to coexist, and they want to do so.
It is up to the European Union to do everything in its power - which means more than before - to put an end to the occupation of Cyprus and bring about a united Cyprus.
As early as June last year the European Parliament called on the Council to decide on common action in relation to Cyprus.
On behalf of my group, I most emphatically reiterate this request.
Only this morning the European Parliament strongly condemned Turkey for its violations of human rights and international law and decided to freeze the financial commitments for Turkey.
Now it is urgently necessary for the Commission and the Council to make it clear in unequivocal terms to the Turkish Government that better relations with the European Union also depend on a solution to the Cyprus problem.
