Europe began with a Greek god in the form of a bull.
I am sure that it will not end with an insular mad cow.
There is one thing that we must realise, and the BSE crisis has made this clear: this Intergovernmental Conference must make progress on decision-making mechanisms that will prevent a destructive government from obstructing the European Union's ability to act.
For this reason, the introduction of the principle of taking majority decisions in all matters involving legislation is the clear consequence of the BSE crisis.
This is one of the tasks that we must set ourselves at this Intergovernmental Conference.
President Dini, I am grateful to you and to Mr Faggiolo for your friendly attitude towards Parliament.
I am also sure that, in the final version of the Italian report on the progress made by the Intergovernmental Conference to date, issues such as ability to act, transparency and the objectives of the European Parliament will be adequately taken into consideration.
Let me make a second comment.
The NATO Council in Berlin has taken away the excuse used by all those who, on the grounds of their alleged consideration for the USA, were previously against a defence-policy identity for the European Community.
The NATO Council, with the agreement of the USA, stated quite clearly that such a defence-policy identity is in the interests of both parties and is in the interests of the development of transatlantic relations, and that for this reason we Europeans are called upon to develop our own capacities, in order to fulfil common objectives for the protection of peace and freedom.
I believe that these tasks will have to be set by this Intergovernmental Conference, as will many other things.
Allow me to make one final comment.
Mr Santer, I am grateful to you for your remarks.
If the Commission succeeds in ensuring that the elimination of the BSE crisis takes place subject to the condition that the policy of non-cooperation is abandoned, so that step by step, by taking all veterinary and medical knowledge into consideration, and by taking corresponding control measures at European level, the confidence of consumers can be won back, so that they feel that their health is not in danger, then we are in a position to solve this BSE crisis.
If you are going to stick to these conditions accordingly, then we are also in a position to make this clear to our consumers.
