Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, both the Commission's proposals and Mr Linkohr's report on the adaptation of the European Community's fourth framework programme of activities in the field of research - in Annex I, footnote 5, of that report, and Annex II, paragraphs 1 and 2, of the report on the adaptation of Euratom research - rightly refer to research into increased safety in the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
It is most important to increase the safety of the nuclear power stations located, in particular, in the countries of the former Eastern bloc and in China.
But another Chernobyl-type accident would be extremely dangerous for us too.
That is why, for reasons of solidarity as well as our own safety, it is imperative for us to contribute and expand our practical help and know-how regarding accident prevention.
However, it is not acceptable that a covert or overt extension of the use of nuclear energy should be pushed through by these means.
Many people are in fact in favour of abandoning this fundamentally uncontrollable technology, and we should like to see a move into the age of solar power.
So it needs to be made clear that European research funding should not be used to develop new types of reactor, but only to enhance the safety of existing nuclear plants, including that of the disposal of radioactive waste.
That is the most we can possibly accept, and even that demands something of an effort from us, because in structural terms, even safety upgrades are an incentive to keep dangerous nuclear plants in service.
In principle, this means that the life-span of the plant and technology of a conventional nuclear power station is likely to be extended by a further 40 years.
With regard to Central and Eastern Europe, the following ping-pong effect, which might not be immediately apparent, will play a major role: because of the chronic lack of foreign currency in these countries, the upgrading work is to be funded by so-called payment in kind.
In this way, for example, not only is the latest nuclear technology to be introduced at Sosnovy Bor, but the decommissioning of the Grafenrheinfeld nuclear power station in Germany is to be avoided.
Therefore, because this legally questionable option of continued operation must be averted, I would urge the House to support Amendments Nos 53, 54 and 62, as does a large majority of my group.
