Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to stick to the facts and not to things someone has read somewhere.
One: initially all the parties took part in the first elections in Albania.
At that point, according to its own statements, the opposition saw no unsurmountable problems in participating in the elections.
Two: the opposition parties, led by the socialist parties, withdrew their candidates and even their electoral assistants two hours before the end of the elections, but after the announcement by an American opinion poll that the election results were extremely unfavourable to them.
Three: the latter event obviously led to irregularities at some polling stations.
Four: the independent electoral committee found that irregularities and acts of violence had taken place in 17 constituencies and repeat elections were held there last Sunday.
Five: the opposition refused to take part in this second election round.
Nobody, my dear Mr Bertens, was excluded!
Six: following the opposition's call for a boycott the recorded electoral turnout was only 18 % lower.
Seven: the high vote for the Democratic Party was therefore confirmed at the second ballot.
Eight: the various observers of the first ballot did not agree in their assessments.
Let me remind you, for instance, of the Helsinki Human Rights Group.
And since only one report was taken into consideration, the ODIHR report by the OSCE, there really are doubts about the election.
The composition of the group of electoral observers is extremely questionable.
I identified no less than 14 of these electoral observers as Young Socialists, as genuine Young Socialists and not parliamentarians.
In addition there were two Marxists, who were highly regarded guests in Albania at the time of Hoxha.
These 14 people were originally invited as observers of the communists and only subsequently recruited by the ODIHR group to observe the elections.
We should also remember that the EU ambassador and the American ambassador in Tirana drafted a document yesterday in which they picked the ODIHR report to pieces.
And they were strictly opposed to these conclusions also being put to use here.
We should take note of that and not only of what fits in with our political calculations.
Nine: the Albanians voted in accordance with their own views and not the wishes of the Left in this House, which greatly pleases me personally.
Ten: on the call for the release of political prisoners, let me say that I know of no political prisoners in Albania.
I only know of the case of a prominent left-winger who is, however, in prison for financial offences - that is to say, a legal matter that I will not become involved in.
Eleven: as Mrs Hoff said, I expect the Albanian Government to use its large majority with moderation and to involve the opposition in its activities, even though the latter rejected it.
I hope this opposition will take a constructive approach, for it too represents its fellow-citizens and its country.
Twelve: Albania had to find its way from the Middle Ages to modern times, i.e., from the high-security wing of communism to democracy, in a space of five years.
That is hellishly difficult and there will still be a lot of mistakes for a long time to come.
So let us not be so arrogant and blinkered in our judgment!
We too found it difficult to achieve our democratic standards.
We can be proud of them, but now we should help Albania to refine these standards further.
That is what we should do, rather than rejecting it!
