Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spectre of international organized crime is one of the greatest challenges facing all the Member States of the European Union.
In the past it was traffic in human beings and drugs, and now it is increasingly also traffic in nuclear materials, which is of course also encouraged by countries that want to procure themselves nuclear weapons by illicit means.
The problem is a very serious one.
The Commission has presented a good communication.
But the discussion will be brought into discredit if it is used for internal policy purposes and distorted into a kind of story time or unworldly energy policy.
That is of course totally unworldly and does not take account of the fact that in the view of most of the countries in the world, without nuclear energy it is simply not possible to satisfy the energy requirements of a world that is growing by 260 000 inhabitants a day.
And that is why 55 nuclear plants are currently under construction.
But that is not the issue here.
In 1992 Parliament proposed international monitoring plans, the classification of certain acts as a serious form of international crime and the training of experts.
The Commission's recommendations and Parliament's discussions follow the same line: secure storage, accurate monitoring, early detection, identification and prosecution, specialist technical assistance for the countries mainly affected, stocktaking, accounting and monitoring.
In other words a transparent system, together with cooperation between Member States on safety technology and of course building up Europol.
Let me draw particular attention to paragraphs 11 and 14 of the conclusions of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy, which points out that the incentives can be reduced by offering scientists opportunities to apply their expertise to peaceful activities.
In particular, plutonium must be rendered harmless by conversion into MOX fuel elements.
We can expect 100 tonnes of weapons-grade plutonium from disarmament over the next few years.
It has to be reprocessed and made safe.
