Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I should like to begin by observing that our debate today on whether or not the Council of Europe should admit Croatia as a member reflects the two sides of relations between the European Union and Croatia.
On the one hand, we know how important it is for the Croatian people, their parliament, their governments and all political, economic and social groups in that country to be admitted to the Council of Europe and, having gone through the necessary stages, eventually to attain membership of the European Union.
We in the European People's Party and the Group of the European People's Party support Croatia and its people, as well as its Parliament and Government, in this aspiration.
On the other hand, we know that the only way to their goal involves complete democratization.
Like all other states of central Europe, Croatia must establish the same democratic rights and rules of play that apply in the countries of the European Union itself.
Croatia has already made great progress towards becoming a democratic and pluralist society.
In the peace process it has taken a moderate line, and its position is now one of commitment to peaceful solutions.
The economic and social groups - employers, trade unions and the other associations - are free and active.
Croatia, in our opinion, is pursuing a prudent economic and monetary policy.
Most of the conditions are in place for reconstruction to be carried out in a climate of stability.
However, now that hostilities have largely ceased, we want the Croatian Government itself to keep all the rules of democracy.
Freedom of the press and respect for democratic decisions and election results at all levels are indispensable prerequisites.
We are opposed to discriminatory treatment of Croatia in the domain of human rights.
We should regard it as hypocritical, for instance, if the Council of Europe were to admit Russia despite the war in Chechnya but ultimately refused to admit Croatia even if the Croats fulfilled the required conditions.
But it is precisely because we favour the early admission of Croatia to our circle of European nations that we appeal to the Croatian President and his Government to do all in their power to end the intimidation and harassment of journalists forthwith and to ensure that freedom of the press and media not only exist on paper but are fully respected in practice.
For the municipal government of Zagreb too, a solution must be found which is politically sound and which respects the outcome of democratic elections.
The European Union, for its part, should do everything possible to ensure that the resources available under the PHARE programme are committed at long last to the specific aims of developing the economy and democracy.
To sum up, we believe that the ball is now in the Croatian court.
We also ask the Council of Europe to keep us informed of any changes in its position on the human rights issue and in the criteria it has laid down, for the Council of Europe's criteria often serve as the basis of our decisions.
