Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the results of the Molitor report are disappointing.
It cannot be denied that many legal provisions are too complicated and inaccessible to the legal layman because they are incomprehensible.
That situation is extremely unsatisfactory, which is why means must be sought of remedying it.
As stated in Mrs Mosiek-Urbahn's report, clarity and readability, which make the legal standards more comprehensible, are an important factor of their public acceptance.
The attempt to simplify the standards is, however, often misused in political debates as a means of putting at risk achievements such as the protection of workers consumers and the environment.
The report by the working group asserts that there is a correlation between legislative simplification and increased growth and job creation.
It has not, however, favoured us with any proof that this assertion is correct.
No doubt it is particularly important and desirable to simplify legislation, and above all many procedures, for the small and medium-sized undertakings.
It would be a help to go through the provisions in many areas, such as building regulations, operating rules or permits.
But it would be dangerously deluded to believe that the situation in competition can be improved by social dumping, by dismantling worker and public health protection.
That is why we fully endorse the fact that the report by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens emphasizes that the deregulation proposals in the social area cannot be accepted and that the labour law proposals designed to reduce the level of European worker protection are not acceptable.
The notion that single market regulations should only be adopted in areas in which the single market has clear advantages is also to be rejected.
The question must be asked, advantages for whom, for here it is easy for businessmen to demonstrate that the single market has opened up many new opportunities and brought many advantages.
To conclude I would therefore say that we are certainly not against reform.
We Members of Parliament in particular, who have a special obligation towards our citizens, support legislative simplification.
We know that it is also to do with us if laws come into being that can only be understood by specialists and that the appeal for greater clarity and simplicity must also be addressed to us.
We also support the proposal to accelerate the codification of Community legislation.
Mrs Mosiek-Urbahn's report also contains proposals on how these problems can be tackled.
But we will not accept any attack on the working consumer and the environment under the guise of simplification.
