Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although the elections took place scarcely a month ago, the public has almost forgotten what happened around these elections.
But the European Union institutions must not overlook these incidents.
According to information received from international observers, these elections involved very serious infringements of the principle of free and democratic elections.
Intimidation of voters and actual cheating were observed on several occasions and on such a massive scale that Helsinki Watch, the international human rights organization, pointed out in a report on these elections that their results must not be recognized because of the systematic infringements of local and international rules.
Even before the elections, President Berisha and his government took a number of measures which considerably restricted the chances of the opposition parties.
The opposition had little chance of presenting itself and its programmes to the media.
The infringements of the democratic electoral process even led all the opposition parties to withdraw from the second ballot.
Where there is no opposition, there is no democratic state.
But President Berisha has achieved one thing now: in contrast to 1994 - remember - when the draft constitution he proposed was rejected by a clear majority of the inhabitants, he can now fashion the Albanian state as he wants and dictate what happens in the country.
As a result of international pressure elections were held again in 17 constituencies without the participation of the opposition parties.
It is clear that this has not saved democracy in Albania.
Only new general elections that respect the international rules can put the democratic process in Albania back on track.
No democratic party in the European Union can even consider any further cooperation with a party that shows so little respect for democracy and is only interested in staying in power.
To pretend that nothing has happened is hypocrisy!
It is not enough to appeal as the Christian Democrats have done to the government party to make responsible and prudent use of the re-confirmation of their position as the majority party in order to achieve broad agreement wherever possible.
That would legitimize cheating and be a threat to democracy.
For the European Social Democrats it is not the colour of the government party that is important.
All that counts for us is respect for democracy.
Full or partial recognition of these elections is equal to the rejection of democratic principles for Albania.
So we call on the Council and the Commission to freeze relations with Albania until new elections have been held in this country under international democratic rules.
