Let me try to explain things again - and I must confess that I may have contributed to the confusion here, because when one speaks ironically, the irony is conveyed in the tone of voice, and this may be lost in translation.
So I will explain again, step by step and without any irony.
A discussion took place in the Council about whether the OECD agreement required us to end all shipbuilding subsidies.
On behalf of the Commission, I explained that we interpreted the agreement to the effect that subsidies specifically for building ships were no longer allowed.
Let me give you an example: a ship is ordered from a shipyard, and the country concerned pays that yard 20 % in subsidies in order to reduce the price of the ship to the client by that amount.
Under the OECD agreement, subsidies of this kind are no longer allowed.
I trust that what I have said is clear so far.
Aid for research and development is of course different.
Indeed, we have a programme to modernize shipbuilding which we are implementing together with our G7 partners.
This includes looking at the use of information technology to rationalize the production process, so that suppliers in particular can slot into the production sequence at the right time.
Programmes of this kind are part-financed by us, under our research and development policy.
It is quite clear that what we are engaged in here is research and development.
Or to take another example, let us say that a shipyard wishes to reduce noise levels and is taking steps to do so.
It needs investment for that purpose, and the investment is subsidized.
This has nothing to do with shipbuilding, in fact it may well be an environmental protection measure.
These are the types of aid that are not covered by the OECD agreement.
However, we do keep a check on such aid, which means that anyone intending to grant this kind of subsidy has to report the fact by notifying the Commission.
The Commission investigates the aid and decides whether it is in breach of Article 92 or any other provision of the Treaty, and it is then either prohibited or - if it complies with the provisions of the Treaty - permitted.
The decision is then published in the Official Journal.
That is the procedure in its entirety.
The whole process is therefore important.
There are no secret protocols: all protocols are recorded and may be consulted at any time.
If you have a question for the Council, then put it to the Council, and the Council will give you information about the protocols.
The Commission has even less reason to keep such protocols secret, because what we record in protocols is our opinion.
You are now asking me what our opinion is, and I am telling you, here before the House.
We have nothing to conceal.
Have I made myself clear enough now?
