Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by underlining that my group and I remain highly disturbed at the extent of the lack of reactor safety in the former USSR and the ineffective control of nuclear materials.
That is why we are also concerned about the smuggling of nuclear materials and other radioactive substances.
But we must certainly also endeavour to resolve this problem through cooperation with the Russian authorities and not through confrontation.
However, my group finds a number of arguments incomprehensible and hard to understand.
Firstly, the report does not distinguish clearly between questions of nuclear weapons proliferation and nuclear smuggling.
The differences between the two questions should be made much clearer.
Nor do we understand why the report postulates the abolition of nuclear energy while at the same time emphasizing the usefulness of plutonium for peaceful purposes in the European Union.
In my view that is pure nonsense, for why should the reactors in the former USSR become safer, the nuclear materials be supervised better and the smuggling stop if the safe reactors in our country are shut down?
We are dealing here purely with problems in the former USSR, with problems which have indeed taken on dramatic dimensions.
The countries of the former USSR, especially Russia, urgently need energy in order to survive, so they cannot abandon nuclear energy.
At the same time, their control systems urgently need modernizing, since they are no longer able to ensure adequate supervision of the nuclear materials and radioactive substances.
I discovered that myself a fortnight ago in Novosibirsk where I attended a conference on cooperation between Russia and Euratom on the control of nuclear materials and also had an opportunity to visit a Russian fuel elements factory.
The situation is dramatic!
On the question of combating the threat of nuclear smuggling, my group calls for the Union to make every effort to link up the various executive authorities and thus finally to establish comprehensive cooperation.
Furthermore, we call for closer cooperation with Russia on the prevention of nuclear smuggling.
We must raise the necessary funds for this which, we believe, would be well invested.
For it is without doubt cheaper and better to give full support to the Russian authorities concerned in their efforts to modernize or set up their control systems than for us here in the European Union to pick up the nuclear materials and other radioactive substances one by one.
