Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think we are moving towards an important decision.
The House is likely, by a large majority, to reject as unrealistic and inadequate the broad economic guidelines presented by the Council.
That is very important, and it is also very important that we should do so by a large majority.
I agree with Mr Cassidy that we can no longer accept economic growth which is such that employment levels continue to decline.
I would, however, like to discuss with him in more detail what he means by encouraging employers to take on workers.
I believe that a very specific form of encouragement is required in the case of companies which are now able to earn far more from currency speculation than they can through genuine economic activity.
We need a change of direction here.
As a Parliament - and here too I turn to Mr Cassidy - we have taken a joint decision in many areas that it is high time to put an end to the superficial strategy of pretending that all is well and there are no structural problems; these problems need to be resolved as a matter of urgency.
Parliament has asked a number of questions which the Commission has taken up in part, very tentatively, and which the Council has not even acknowledged.
It is therefore the duty of the House to reject these guidelines, not merely for reasons of parliamentary etiquette, but because it is central to our task as a Parliament to tackle the mass unemployment and mass poverty which have become the real scandal of the European Community.
I would assume that a large majority of us will address ourselves to this task.
Because of the speed of the procedure, and not any fundamental disagreement with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, the Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has asked the Commission a number of supplementary questions.
This is not because we think that the Commission is the main culprit in this situation, so to speak - rather, the guilt lies chiefly with the Council and the Member States.
However, the Commission too could do more, and we are therefore asking what initiatives it plans to take to bring about the necessary change in economic policy.
We are asking about the implementation of our priority of combating mass unemployment effectively, because we cannot expect the citizens of Europe to tolerate another outpouring of meaningless fine words.
We are also asking in particular about additional Commission measures to send a strong signal to the markets and help revive the economy.
We are asking for the much-trumpeted initiative of a European pact on employment to be presented at long last.
We are asking what efforts the Commission plans to make to redress the balance between fiscal and employment policies in the multiannual programmes submitted by the Member States.
We are asking how the Commission is going to devise and apply common socio-economic indicators which make it possible for a binding debate to take place on the coordination of economic policy, no longer geared solely towards a monetarist approach to national debt.
And we are asking for greater coordination between economic and employment policies.
The decision which we have to take today is not a trivial one.
The real issue is the point in time when the European Community becomes relevant to every individual in this Community.
It is a matter of making it clear at last that our Community is one which has set its sights on genuine improvements in the welfare of its citizens, and which is not solely determined to push through a narrow monetarist view of stability policy and a technocratically agreed timeframe and strategy for the introduction of monetary union, at the expense of millions of impoverished and unemployed people.
I hope we shall decide by a large majority that this cannot go on.
I also hope that this will be the first impulse for real change.
Unfortunately, the House does not yet have the power to force a change, but the governments would be well advised to react now, because otherwise the problems will seek out new governments.
