Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission has presented a first report on the implementation of the money-laundering directive which is very useful and informative.
It offers us an opportunity to concern ourselves in detail with the phenomenon of money laundering and to identify the weak points in the measures for combating this offence.
The weak points derive from the fact that the directive does not go far enough but also from the fact that organized crime is becoming increasingly cunning and using both new techniques and new means of investment.
We all know that the large criminal organizations which we lump together rather vaguely as organized crime are organized and built up in much the same way as economic undertakings and that the most sustainable way of reaching them is through their assets.
Any measures that prevent the proceeds of crime from being smuggled into the legal economic process are therefore very valuable and well targeted.
The motion for a resolution contains some sensible requests to the Commission to extend the scope of the directive.
In particular, national legal provisions on money laundering should expand the list of activities that constitute criminal offences.
It is incomprehensible why only drugs trafficking should be included and not other forms of organized or professional crime.
As has been pointed out, organized crime includes a whole range of crimes, from traffic in human beings to arms traffic, blackmail for protection money, gambling and many other areas.
So it would appear important to include all these areas of crime and all the proceeds from them.
I also think other occupational groups must be included in the scope of the directive.
Criminal organizations are inventive and their interest in the banking sector heightens the risk.
I just want to say a few words on the banking sector.
Mr Lehne mentions in the explanatory statement to his report that savings accounts in Austria could be used for money-laundering purposes.
To that I can only say that there are no savings accounts in Austria, only savings books.
Money can be paid into savings books and money can be withdrawn from them.
But money cannot be transferred.
I believe it is important to establish that.
Also, I do not think the figure of about 26 million savings books is really so high if you consider savings habits in Austria, where every pensioner opens at least one savings book for each grandchild and in any case everyone has different books for different savings purposes.
And I want to make it quite clear that accounts are not anonymous, neither current accounts nor any others, and that anonymity has also been abolished for securities accounts.
Austria lays great value on the fact that it is not a distributing centre for money laundering.
To return to the content of the resolution.
It can indeed be observed that mafia organizations and business people are appearing more and more often in the fields of real estate, gambling, jewellery and art with dubious funds.
So it is worth considering whether occupational groups such as jewellers, casino owners, lawyers and notaries should not be involved more closely in helping to combat organized crime.
Technical developments in financial transactions are also facing us with new problems.
It is very important to improve cooperation with the authorities responsible for combating organized crime and to keep a constant watch on developments.
Criminal organizations adjust very quickly to new measures and methods.
It is important to remain on the ball and react very promptly to changes.
The opinion of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs takes the same line as the motion for a resolution submitted by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
It too calls for the directive to be amended and to include in its scope a wider range of criminal activities.
Combating internationally operating criminal organizations is a great challenge for the European Union and its Member States.
The people of Europe expect us to combat crime successfully.
Combating money laundering is certainly an important means of combating international crime.
