Madam President, there are three subjects with which we are constantly concerned here when it is a question of the right of a people to self-determination, subjects for which the colonial period is to blame.
They are the occupation of the Western Sahara, Mururoa and, again and again, East Timor.
We have a particular responsibility for that conflict.
We must tell the Indonesians that they must respect human rights.
It is a question here of the right to self-determination of the people of East Timor.
Yet we as Parliament and the EU as a whole also bear a responsibility here.
We have discussed the conflicts of Dili for years.
Now there have once again been demonstrations and incidents.
On 9 and 11 June two people were killed in Baucau.
Injuries, arrests and further oppression are always the consequence.
We are not dealing here with a religious conflict but with forms of systematic oppression.
In Jakarta itself the 25-year-old Imanuel Suares was executed.
We have the acts of oppression in Irian Jaya and one of the extreme cases was the arrest of the former member of parliament, Sri-Bintang Pamungkas, because he had spoken in Germany.
He was accused of intending to instigate demonstrations against Indonesia in Germany.
That is absurd, we can do that ourselves.
But we did guarantee him freedom of expression.
That has to be taken into account.
That is why we call for his release.
We have heard, however, that arms are continuing to be supplied from the UK, from Sweden and from the Federal Republic.
The EU cannot permit that.
Here it is up to the Commission to act.
And it is up to us as Parliament finally to set up the delegation we decided to create in 1991 and called for in countless speeches.
Here I expect an answer from you, Madam President, or from Mr Hänsch.
When will this parliamentary delegation be set up?
How much longer do we have to go on talking about it?
Are the discussions here just window-dressing or will this Parliament take action as a parliament?
Only you can give me this answer from the Bureau.
I hope this matter will be dealt with at the next Bureau meeting.
