Mr President, the reason I like the report by Mr Konecny so much is because it paints a differentiated picture of the differentiated situation in Slovakia, which is usually depicted in a simplistic manner.
I am pleased with his reference to the fact that through their hard work in the recent years of change, the Slovakian people helped ensure that the money we have already granted is in a sense flowing back to us.
OK, we no longer have it, but in a sense it is flowing back to us.
I think we may conclude from this that Slovakia is on the right path in many areas.
But I can also understand the concern he expressed in paragraphs 9 and 10 of his explanatory statement, both as regards privatization and the accompanying concentration of power in what are possibly the wrong hands, and as regards the political framework conditions.
I think it is important not to separate the economy and the political framework conditions, for you simply cannot have a working market economy the rule of law also prevails.
That is why I would point out - as the rapporteur did in his report - that it is not just the language law he mentions but also the criminal law that was recently introduced for allegedly anti-state opinions expressed abroad that are likely to destroy international confidence in Slovakia.
On Wednesday the vice-president of the 'coexistence' movement of the Hungarian ethnic group in Slovakia was a guest of the inter-group working party on minority languages which I chair, and he told us about this problem and about the problem of the administrative reform, which is an attempt to rob the minority of the basis of their livelihood.
We must continue to keep a careful eye on this situation.
We should not try to tell them what to do but should distinguish on the basis of dialogue between the Slovakian people and various wrong turns.
We have always supported self-determination for the Slovakian people.
But this self-determination is only possible for the smaller nations of Central Europe if fragmented artificial states are replaced by a new, large entity that links the nations together, namely if the European Union is enlarged to the east.
The peoples of this region must not confront one another but form a community that binds them together.
That is why Slovakia must remain in the front row of countries we hope will become Member States.
To support this is an important task, which is why I am glad that Mr Konecny has taken this matter up as he has.
I believe we should certainly not slam the door on Slovakia and use the fact that economic successes have been achieved but that there are also points of criticism in order to enter into a differentiated dialogue with the Slovakian people, who clearly belong with us.
