Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we recently celebrated the twentieth anniversary of the Seveso disaster.
This major accident occurred in 1976.
Since 1982, there has been legislation in the European Union on the major-accident hazards of certain industrial activities.
Minor amendments to this legislation were made in 1987 and 1988.
As the Commission has ascertained, the provisions of this legislation - especially as regards the technical aspects, the prevention and tackling of accidents, and emergency plans - have proved very successful.
Nevertheless, they have not managed to prevent some 130 accidents from occurring since 1982.
In the past, the legislation has affected some 1866 undertakings.
Following repeated requests from Parliament and the Council, technical progress and the benefits of more than ten years' experience of the existing legislation have led to the submission of the text that we are discussing today at second reading.
It is not simply a question of the revision of the 1982 directive but, in substantial areas, of a completely new directive, as well as an entirely new approach.
Mr Bowe, as rapporteur, has already said something on this point.
In our view, the protection of people and the environment in the vicinity of potentially dangerous installations must be improved further.
The top priorities are to prevent major accidents involving dangerous substances and, should such an accident occur, to limit its consequences for people and the environment.
Our group supports this goal fully and absolutely.
However, I have doubts that we are achieving it.
These doubts are fed by the hitherto inadequate level of transposition and implementation of the directive in the Member States, as well as by certain basic considerations.
I believe that it is important to bring this directive into line with other legislation on the same subjects.
I therefore welcome the fact that, in its common position, the Council has finally taken on board some of the criticisms repeatedly made by Parliament - and, in particular, my group - in the sense that the content in at least some of the areas been brought into line with the provisions of existing directives.
This includes the definition concerning the IPPC directive.
Also in line with the IPPC directive, requirements for operators to provide information have been introduced.
The rules concerning the provision of information have been brought into line with those contained in the existing directive on free access to information on the environment.
My group is therefore opposed to some of the amendments which have been tabled, which might call this consistency into question.
However, the main problem concerns the following: as yet, the Commission has failed to submit to Parliament appropriate proposals for the annexes, although, according to Article 9 regarding the security reports to be drawn up, these criteria have to be established.
I regret the fact that they have not been submitted on time.
I questioned the Commission on this matter in committee, but I did not receive a reply.
Parliament and the Council are excluded from this decision: it is a matter for the Commission alone.
I therefore greatly regret the fact that Parliament has not been included in this regard.
