Mr Bangemann, I should like to address myself to you directly, and of course to Mr Herman, as rapporteur, and Mr Barzanti.
You, Mr Bangemann, were the main player at European level in the creation of this information society.
We are now in the midst of it, for better or for worse.
What is still a matter for dispute - and I believe we must dispute it very seriously - is what kind of society this should be.
We need to dispute what kind of face it should have in the future.
We need to dispute what kind of responsibility the state should have in this new game.
The responsibility of the state must be different from in the past.
The state will have to take responsibility for regulation, and has already done so.
Regulation is a means of creating stability.
For example, it is understandable that there is a wish to control the Internet at the moment.
It is understandable that people wish to secure more protection for the individual through controls.
What the state should do - and you and we will bear considerable responsibility here - is to ensure this protection on the one hand, without restricting the freedom of speech of the individual and the business world on the other.
This will not be easy.
It will depend on striking an even balance, and on this balance also being established at international level.
It will involve setting up a new moral code which incorporates the old moral ideas which we certainly have throughout the world, but adds something new to them.
And we shall have to fight for that new element.
In this new world, it will not be possible to have the right for everyone to impose their own interests, for anyone to be able to publish as much pornography as they like, for anyone to feed as much violence as they like into the Internet.
But there must be the freedom for anyone to publish views which they consider right and relevant.
This is a border area where it will be very difficult to strike the right balance.
That is one side of things.
However, the state has a second and, to my mind, far more important responsibility here.
It must create a basis on which all citizens - and all regions, as has been pointed out - can have access to this new network and to these new opportunities which are developing at present.
Computers, hardware, software, the Internet, the Worldwide Web - they are all just means of providing access to information.
Access to information is the crucial element, that is what is new.
It will be new to search for things, to obtain knowledge.
It will be new to create a new quality of education in Europe and throughout the world.
And it will be new to create intellectual capital, as the current jargon has it.
How will Europe participate in this?
What opportunities are we to give our citizens?
Universal service alone is not the answer.
Even with universal service - at least as we understand it at present - the costs are still too high.
How will the future look?
How will we connect our citizens and the regions?
Do you not think, Mr Bangemann, that it is time to discuss how we are going to connect all the schools, all the universities and libraries in Europe to this new infrastructure?
Do you not think it is time that we, as political agents of change, gave expression to our responsibility for this process by establishing a European initiative to open up access to these new sources of information for schools, regions and libraries?
Do you not think we should ensure that there is no discrepancy at European level, that we do not reach a situation of having some countries which, because of the cost structure or because they are lagging behind in this process of development, cannot become involved as soon as others?
What is your answer to these critical questions, which have yet to be resolved?
I would call for us to embark on this process at an early stage, and to find a truly European answer.
