Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when it comes to people, freedom of movement in the European Union is a complicated business.
Mr Caccavale was quite right to point out that all kinds of things can be transported within this Union, and all kinds of things can move unhindered across the frontiers - which indeed no longer officially exist.
Only people may not move as freely in the European Union as we would all have wished.
That is why I should like to remind you of something again today, namely that the European internal market began on 1 January 1993, with fireworks and celebrations throughout the European Union.
And what were we celebrating?
Was it the fact that anyone may now take any product, service or capital holding and move freely with it in the Europe of Fifteen?
Yes, that was part of it.
But we were not - at least my group was not - celebrating the fact that some essential preconditions for the implementation of people's right to move freely in the newly created Europe would still not be met almost four years later.
So why has this right not yet been implemented?
It has not been implemented because a number of Member States - or rather their governments - regard with mistrust the fact that their citizens, and permanent residents in their countries who are not citizens, can move freely in the Union.
We have heard all kinds of arguments this morning for curtailing this individual liberty.
But one thing is crystal clear: the overwhelming majority of people who live in our Union - I do not know the exact figures, but we can assume that we are talking about well over 90 % of the population - are honest, upright, decent folk who ought to be able to travel freely from one part of the Union to another, whether they are passport holders of one of the Member States, or citizens of a third country with a permanent address in the Union.
Why are the governments mistrustful?
Why do they continue to restrict these people's freedom of movement because of the criminal activities of a few small groups such as heroin and arms dealers and those who traffic in human beings?
Such groups undoubtedly pose real problems, but they cannot justify the continued restriction of freedom of movement.
It is high time that we made progress - by creating a confidence offensive.
After the delays which caused the conflict between Parliament and the Council and Commission, we are now debating these reports because of initiatives taken by the Commissioner, who is with us here today: initiatives which, though commendable, are insufficient.
Now, in the midst of this process, we learn that the body representing the Member States, which are responsible for the delays - namely the Council - has clearly gone behind the backs of Parliament and the Commission once again, by initiating a procedure which seeks to replace everything that we are debating today and in which neither we nor, of course, the Commission will have any part.
There is only one way for us to respond: we shall request postponement of the vote, pursuant to Rule 129, to give us the opportunity of reconsidering this latest development in committee, as provided for under Rule 60, because it is absolutely unacceptable that the right - and in particular Parliament's right - of democratic participation, which is not extensive at the best of times, should be further thwarted by an attempt, at this stage of our deliberations, to make a mockery of the consultation procedure, in the sense that the Council is ignoring everything that we say here in the House and producing a fait accompli behind our backs.
In my view, this is something that we cannot accept.
