Madam President, its failure to adopt the Pelttari report brings shame on the European Parliament.
This is a black day for Parliament.
The fact that the House has failed to address a question of such importance as the draft Bioethics Convention is a disgrace.
The draft Bioethics Convention, as originally conceived by the steering committee, meant a relativization of human rights.
It rightly unleashed a wave of revulsion in the Member States.
It is a sign of moral destitution that we did not take a stand on a convention under which, for example, research on persons incapable of consent would continue to be allowed.
For this opens the way to the circumvention of human rights.
There are also no clear provisions in the draft Bioethics Convention to prohibit research on genetic determinism.
This leaves the door wide open to the breeding of laboratory human beings.
Also, the draft Bioethics Convention allows scope for disposable embryo research by the back door.
Of course, it is only to be permitted when adequate safeguards are provided.
This does not go beyond vague assurances, however, since the draft convention says absolutely nothing about the form these safeguards would take.
The Pelttari report would have been a chance to send a very clear signal to the parliamentary assembly and to the Council of Europe, saying that this draft convention must be rejected.
By failing to adopt the report, we have unfortunately thrown away this chance.
We could have made it clear through our resolution that we intend to oppose the devaluing of human rights, for established human rights must not be called into question.
The draft Bioethics Convention, on the other hand, does not safeguard human rights; on the contrary, it positively legitimizes their devaluation.
Hence I think it is a scandal, a sign of moral destitution and a disgrace to the European Parliament that we have failed to adopt this excellent report, which would have sent a clear signal for the rejection of the convention.
