Mr President, when Parliament votes tomorrow on the joint text from the conciliation committee on Community guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network, a long legislative process will come to an end.
This will provide proof that the codecision procedure is workable, even for the most difficult issues.
We all know that it is in the very nature of a compromise that, in many areas, solutions will be reached which do not completely satisfy everyone concerned.
As a Member of the European Parliament, I am certainly not happy with the way in which the Council acted.
The European Parliament must not be excluded from participation in decision-making on transport issues.
However, we must not forget our responsibilities with regard to these projects or, in particular, with regard to the citizens whom we represent in this House.
A quick decision will mean, I hope, the rapid start of construction - and with it, an important boost to the labour market.
And in view of the fact that there are 18 million unemployed people in Europe, the Union is urgently in need of such a boost.
In the case of Austria, two projects are very much to the fore.
Firstly, the extension of the Brenner axis - the importance of which cannot be stated often enough or overemphasized - is essential for our country.
In the interests of our hard-pressed neighbours, a rapid start to construction is vital, to say nothing of the environmental problems which can to some extent be resolved by the building of this route and the introduction of combined transport.
I would draw attention once again in this context to the special problems hitherto involved in long-distance transport and the particular geographical situation of the Brenner pass.
The transalpine Munich-Verona route must be a matter of concern to the whole European Union, not only to the countries immediately affected.
Of equally great importance to Austria is the construction of the high-speed route for combined transport from Paris, via Munich, to Vienna and Budapest.
This project does not figure among the fourteen Essen priority projects, but must be dealt with as a matter of urgency.
At a time when the enlargement of the Union to include the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is taking concrete form, infrastructure projects which bring this region closer to the existing Community must be particularly encouraged.
I would point out in this respect that Austria has only been a Member of the European Union since 1 January 1995, but that its legitimate demands must be taken seriously.
If we are to be able to pursue effectively the objectives laid down in Article 2 of the EC Treaty in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, there is an urgent need for a modern, fast and economical transport network with appropriate capacities, which also reflects the modern attitude towards the environment.
The trans-European transport network represents a great challenge to the European Union, but also an opportunity: through targeted investment, projects which are urgently needed can be realized.
In this way, Europe will grow a little closer together and become more competitive, and jobs will be created.
The decision on the trans-European networks can be a major step towards the further development of the Union.
Let us seize the opportunity offered to us!
