Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office of the Council mentioned the Intergovernmental Conference, and the presidency will present an outline for a draft revision of the Treaties to the December summit meeting of Heads of State and Government in Dublin.
What we as Members of the European Parliament have heard about the meeting of government representatives held in Cork at the beginning of July has been very encouraging.
We have heard, Mr President-in-Office, that the Irish presidency conducted the talks very effectively and briskly, and we should like to encourage you to continue in the same manner.
We should also like to encourage you to pursue the negotiations now on the basis of quite specific texts so that we achieve a good result in time for December.
Lastly, we should like to encourage you to avoid basing your proposals for the draft treaty revision on the lowest common denominator among the 15 States of the EU but rather to go a good bit further than the positions on which agreement may ultimately be reached.
We in the European People's Party call for reform of the European Union, which now has a population of 370 million, to enable the Union to prepare, on the threshold of the 21st century, for the accession of new States.
You spoke, Mr President-in-Office, of a Community of 27 States; we shall have to wait and see whether that actually comes to pass in the foreseeable future.
The prospect facing us is that of over 100 million people who want their countries to join the European Union.
We in the European People's Party base our policy for reform of the Treaties on the principle of effectiveness - effectiveness, indeed, is perhaps the key to the future of our continent - combined, of course, with the democratic principles as well as with the transparency to which you have referred.
For us in the European People's Party - and in this debate I can only focus on the main points - the following criteria are vital to reform of the European Union:
First of all, in the international context the European Union must be endowed with the legal capacity which, as we know, it does not yet possess, and only through this capacitation in international law can we enable the European Union to act as a legal and political entity and to be represented in international organizations.
Secondly, we call for the principal human rights to be incorporated into the Treaties and for the European Union to accede to the Council of Europe Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms.
Thirdly, it should be standard practice for the Council of Ministers to decide by majority vote on Community legislation; unanimity should only apply in exceptional cases, and even where unanimous decisions are still prescribed by the Treaty they should be phased out within a fixed period of time.
Fourthly, the European Parliament should participate in the legislative process as an equal partner with the Council, and legislative procedure must be simplified accordingly.
Fifthly, we in the European People's Party believe that the rationale of European unification demands the integration of the Western European Union into the European Union.
We do realize that this will probably not be achieved at the present Intergovernmental Conference, because a number of Member States that do not belong to the WEU are unlikely to accept Article 5, in other words the mutual assistance clause.
That is why we support the inclusion of a political solidarity clause in the Treaty on European Union as a stepping-stone and in particular the incorporation in the EU Treaty of the Petersberg Declaration of June 1992 regarding humanitarian, peacemaking and peacekeeping operations outside the area of application of the WEU Treaty.
We believe that no Member State should be forced to take part in military operations to defend democracy and human rights but that a minority of States must not be able to prevent action being taken by the majority of States if the latter wish to act.
Our sixth and final point - and this is perhaps the most important point, having been mentioned several times already - concerns the field of justice and home affairs.
We must start to bring some aspects of justice and home affairs under the Community umbrella, such as asylum, immigration and visas.
The conventions, in other words international agreements, and intergovernmental cooperation in these domains are becoming increasingly unsuitable platforms from which to launch the campaign against crime in Europe.
In this fight against crime too, we need the Community procedures of majority decisionmaking by the Council and equal legislative rights for the European Parliament.
Your presidency of the Council, Mr Spring, faces great challenges and a host of other issues.
We wish the Irish presidency perseverance and determination but also good fortune and success.
