Madam President, in his remarks, the President-in-Office of the Council spoke about the third pillar - and many Members have done so too - and he said that as far as the third pillar is concerned, the expectations of the public must be fulfilled, with regard to internal security in Europe.
And in fact this is correct: the third pillar is concerned with a series of important areas of the policy of the European Union, areas that are relevant to security.
But if we look at what the third pillar contains - and the President-in-Office of the Council also mentioned Europol - then it seems that fulfilling the security needs of the citizens of Europe is a sad story.
This is because, for a long time now, all those who are involved, who are concerned with security in Europe, have known that we are conducting a debate that could be summed up in the following comparison.
If the European Union were a car, its bodywork would be that of a Lamborghini, whereas its engine would be that of a Cinquecento , and a spluttering one at that.
That is the major problem that hits us when we look at the Europol Convention.
The main problem is that as far as internal insecurity goes, progress is being made, whereas as far as internal security is concerned, Europe is just not getting to the point.
And in this specific case Mr Herman has put his finger on the problem.
But it has to be said, unfortunately - and we do not believe that it is right - that the voting is still fourteen to one, and this shows that if Florence does not make any further progress on the institutional reform of the European Union, then this summit will once again be futile.
We really must succeed in fulfilling the needs of the population, and their expectations of the European Union.
It must be possible to take essential future decisions, including, for example, those that are concerned with internal security, because the extent to which a citizen identifies with the institution in which he lives is always dependent on how secure he feels there.
We shall only make progress in ensuring that the citizens of Europe identify with Europe, and we shall only be able to satisfy their need for this identification and their need for security, when we finally take seriously the question of the institutional reform of this Union, especially where the third pillar is concerned.
