Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the aim of LIFE is to help develop and implement the environmental policy and environmental legislation of the European Union, especially in relation to the impact of industrial activity and the protection of nature, but also in the context of cooperation with third countries, particularly those of the Mediterranean Basin and of central and eastern Europe.
In view of the broad spectrum of projects which it would be desirable to finance, the funding of the LIFE programme, though considerably increased by the European Parliament - for which I thank Mrs Marinucci - remains very meagre.
That means that we must be very cautious in awarding these funds and ensure that the money is spent on useful projects.
In the past there have been repeated complaints of a lack of transparency in the awarding of funds.
The main root of the problem has been that no precise criteria for the selection of projects were laid down in the original LIFE programme.
So the primary objective of the revised LIFE proposal under discussion today is to establish such criteria.
Today's text considerably improves the catalogue of elimination and evaluation criteria for LIFE applications.
On behalf of my group I very much welcome that.
How the evaluation criteria work in practice remains to be seen and will have to be reviewed in due course.
There is, however, one point with which I am not happy: LIFE can only make good its claim to be an instrument for the promotion of innovation in the industrial sector if the best available technology is taken as the starting point for innovative projects for the development of technological refinements, because otherwise we should find ourselves promoting a project in one Member State to develop technology that has already been in use for several years in another Member State.
Given the shortage of funds, that is something we simply cannot afford to do.
That is why I say that the best available technology must be used as the basis of evaluation when it comes to selecting projects for the further development of existing technology.
The common position on the Directive defines the term 'best available technology' , which means that an agreed basis for the use of the term is already in place.
For that reason I should like to ask Commissioner Bjerregaard again whether she does not agree with me on the need to include this in the LIFE programme, because that would be a consistent policy and position for the Commission and the European Union to adopt.
If Mrs Bjerregaard could agree to that, perhaps Mrs Marinucci could also support my motion, for I consider it very important that we should not pursue a redundant policy but rather apply the rules that are needed.
Some countries do need to catch up, and instead of being content to go on letting them lag behind we should ensure that their technology reflects the state of the art by providing them with the necessary funds.
