Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is now almost seven months since Dayton or Paris, and we have to ask ourselves whether anything has really changed.
The only thing that has changed is that there is no longer a war going on, but the changes have not been as great as we should have liked.
On the civilian side, things are not yet progressing as we had thought they might.
We are coming up against a lot of obstacles, including the fact that in this instance war has paid off, since the aggressor has gained 49 %.
It is also true to say that ethnic cleansing is still going on everywhere in Bosnia.
Over the last four years we have learned that ethnic cleansing still goes unpunished.
It is now continuing in all regions, and we cannot prevent it, despite the many organizations that are there on the spot.
We are forced to admit that local politicians and police officers are still compliantly doing the dirty work for their criminal bosses.
Of course there are decent politicians everywhere, and those who would like to make these things public, but who dare not, because if they did they would very soon lose their heads.
So the civilian implementation is not working, but the reason it is not working is that it is mainly Europeans who are involved.
At the end of the day, everybody agreed to this civilian implementation, and everybody is responsible for it, just as we are also all responsible for the positive results of the military implementation.
As far as humanitarian aid and reconstruction aid are concerned, we are faced with the question of how to give our aid, whom to give it to and on what conditions.
If we were to follow our own ideas, then we would be able to give aid to hardly any projects at all, because hardly anywhere are the provisions of the Dayton Accord being observed.
The extradition of the war criminals is being boycotted.
Freedom of movement has not been established.
Only a tiny number of refugees have returned from the Serbian sector of Bosnia into the Croatian-Moslem sector.
The authorities in the Serbian sector have absolutely no interest in having their fellow Serbian citizens coming back to Sarajevo, for example, which in many cases they went away from as a result of Serbian pressure.
Nor have they any interest - although they maintain that the opposite is true - in seeing them go back into Krajina, thereby forcing the Croatian authorities to show their true colours.
They would much rather keep them almost like hostages, so that they can then say that they have so many Serbian refugees that they are unable to allow any Croatian or Muslim refugees, who have lived there for hundreds of years, to come back.
The reciprocity scheme is working wonderfully well, except that the Serbs are to some extent preventing their own fellow citizens, who would very much like to return to their original homes, from doing so.
The politicians in the Serbian sector of Bosnia do not regard their sector as a constitutive part of Bosnia, and yet that is what is set down in the accord, and that is what they signed up to!
In other words, not much is happening.
Yet the people of the country want peace!
They need, at long last, to have leaders who want the same thing, and the new elections could bring this about, at least in part.
But the prerequisite for any elections whose results will not be a foregone conclusion is to have media that will stop inciting the people and start informing them, and will finally follow this motto: this land of Bosnia is the land of Muslims, Croatians and Serbs!
This message must be got across, every day, morning, noon and night, by television and radio, so that the people - and in particular their politicians - finally understand it.
Our aid must be concerned with the media projects.
It is a matter of the utmost urgency that we should rebuild houses and that we should rebuild multi-ethnic schools.
But it is also necessary to provide aid to build up the SMEs, thereby providing the possibility of help by self-help.
Jobs are absolutely essential in order to give people prospects and in order to make them immune to the inflammatory speeches of their leaders, some of whom are criminals.
