Mr President, in my view the excise duty system with its fixed minimum rates in force since 1 January 1993 has largely proved its worth.
There is much need for amendments, especially to individual regulations, and we could certainly give many examples of that here today in the European Parliament, as we could years ago.
At this time it is certainly important to consider to what extent the internal market can now keep pace with further progress.
Great emphasis was laid in the European Parliament's report on gearing excise duties to ecological concerns, which is very right and very true.
More could certainly be done in the area of mineral oil taxes as a steering mechanism; in particular, in my view the studies of the actual tax situations are inadequate.
We must go further here and consider how far the abolition of tax exemptions really can still be a taboo in the present day.
Here I am thinking in particular of the kerosene used in aviation.
I also think that health and environmental aspects rightly play a part in relation to the other excise duties too.
There is broad agreement on the proposals on excise duties on cigarettes and tobacco.
However, the fiscal treatment of tobacco must continue to comply with ecological aims.
In regard to the taxing of alcohol and alcoholic beverages there is certainly no cause to amend the existing regulations.
However, I do consider it essential that we continue to see the connection, Mr President, which is why I call for the same as the previous speaker.
I believe that alcoholic lemonades, the ready-made mixed beverages should also be subject to taxation because these products can encourage young people in particular to consume more alcohol.
Let me conclude with one comment.
Everyone regards excise duties as mere bagatelles.
In most Member States, however, they account for more than 10 % of tax revenue.
In this area in particular we find a great deal of suppression of evidence, a great deal of tax evasion, which is why the Commission must combat this tax evasion and aim at further-reaching harmonization.
At a time of budgetary scarcity, there is no room for tax evasion.
For that reason we need the Commission to provide annual reports, so that we can make progress not only with harmonization but also with implementing these taxes.
