Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Petitions is the body in Parliament that maintains direct contact with the citizens of the Union.
But, for many petitioners, it is incomprehensible that it should take so long for their submissions to be considered or for a solution to be found.
This results from three basic problems, which we raise year after year and to which no satisfactory solution has been found to date.
Firstly, the number of petitions, which has been rising for years, is making it increasingly difficult for the committee secretariat to cope with the work.
Secondly, once a petition has been declared admissible, the Commission is asked for information.
It increasingly often makes direct contact with the petitioner, thus shortening the circuitous route via the national representations.
However, when it turns out that Member States are clearly in breach of Community law, the Commission hesitates for far too long before initiating proceedings for the violation of Treaty provisions.
Thirdly, the Council rarely observes the terms of the interinstitutional agreement, which require prompt information to be supplied.
Stalling tactics are used to withhold and delay information.
When the Committee attempts to speed things up through an own-initiative procedure, i.e. by inspection of documents, the correspondence with the Council is declared to be confidential and document inspection is refused.
To that extent, the wording of paragraph 7 of the resolution is much too mild; we parliamentarians have direct experience of the exasperation felt at bureaucratic case-handling and delays.
I hope that in the future we shall find a way of ensuring the more efficient handling of petitions by the Commission and the Council.
Even so, anyone who has read the report will have noted that, in many cases, it was possible to help petitioners in securing their rights.
These petitions which reach a favourable outcome give us members of the Committee on Petitions the courage to persevere in applying all our energies to defending the interests of our fellow citizens.
