Mr President, the distinctive feature of the 1997 budget is the Council's proposal to cut the Commission's preliminary draft budget by ECU 1 billion in the agriculture sector and ECU 1 bn in the area of regional policy.
Our group supports that approach.
We are in favour of an austerity budget, and we wish to see spending pegged.
However, we disagree with the Council's proposals for cuts that will affect the internal market.
But we refuse to renounce the Interinstitutional Agreement, because we have committed ourselves to an austerity budget, and in that respect our position differs from that of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
At the same time, however, I would call on that group and the Green Group - whose spokeswoman, Mrs Müller, talked of a book-keeping trick in relation to cuts in the Regional Fund - to approve the Council's proposal, because the fact is that the commitments will be translated into payments as soon as the money is required.
In principal, therefore, the other side of the House could also support the Council proposal, and we should be doing our duty by agreeing to an austerity budget.
That is why our group continues to call for savings in Categories 1 and 2.
We would also urge that the peace process in Northern Ireland should be supported, and we wish to see support for a European research and development policy.
I believe, too, that there is a good case for seeking support for small and medium-sized businesses, because surely, if they receive support, it is in such businesses - rather than the trans-European networks - that jobs will be created.
In that respect, I agree with the two previous speakers.
I have one further point to make: I am totally against the proposals on the MEDA programme and Turkey which were discussed yesterday in the Committee on Budgets, and would involve moving funds to the reserve if human rights abuses take place in Turkey.
If Parliament wished to be consistent, we would have to do the same thing in the PHARE and TACIS programmes.
I would therefore advise the House once again to remain consistent and to pursue a policy that is credible.
If we seek to make expert reports a precondition, then we shall have to do likewise in the other programmes too.
