Madam President, four weeks ago I visited Colombia as a member of the South America delegation.
The media have recently reported in depth about the increasingly serious conflicts about land there, in particular on the case of Hacienda Bellacruz.
This year, the murders and evictions by para-military units have escalated.
During our visit we were able to speak with representatives of the evicted peasant farmers and offer our assistance as Members.
But two days after we left, another two farmers were murdered.
One was a member of the negotiating committee for talks with the government.
Unfortunately Bellacruz is not an isolated case, rather it is the tip of the iceberg.
But Bellacruz has achieved a sad notoriety because the hacienda is owned by the Marulanda family.
Mr Carlos Arturo Marulanda is Colombia's ambassador to the European Union.
Unfortunately he has not yet expressed a single word of regret about the murders and evictions.
We have given President Samper to understand that the reputation of his country will suffer if its ambassadors are not beyond reproach about violations of human rights.
We made it clear that those responsible for the murders and evictions in Bellacruz must be called to account and the peasant farmers' families must be given their land back.
In the interests of its own development, Colombia urgently needs agricultural reform.
Unfortunately the trend in Colombia offers little cause for hope.
The involvement of the military, the guerillas but also the leadership of the country in the drugs trade, the omnipresent corruption, the government's plans to further dismantle democratic rights such as freedom of the press, seem to be dragging this important Latin American country ever deeper into the abyss.
Only ten days ago Josué Giraldo, Chairman of the Human Rights Committee of Meta, was murdered.
In March last year he was our guest speaker at a human rights conference in Brussels supported by the EP.
Some of us knew Josué Giraldo personally.
We cannot allow the state to merely stand by and watch the activities of the bands of killers.
I expect all the parties in Parliament to take a resolute stand on this.
Nor must the EU cease supporting the democratic forces of civilian society in Colombia, which without doubt exist at every level, even in the government.
That is why we also call for the UN human rights office in Bogota cofinanced by the EU to be opened immediately.
It is quite incomprehensible why it has not opened yet.
I do not agree at all with the objections by the previous speaker, for anyone who travels the country with eyes to see and ears to hear is aware of what is happening there.
