Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already spoken a number of times here in Parliament on the subject of the organization of the market in bananas, and perhaps I have sometimes conveyed my views rather forcefully.
I think we must all acknowledge that we can achieve our aims in this matter only by means of a compromise, and that we have to abandon extreme positions if we are to reach agreement.
I am pleased to be able to speak today, for the first time, on behalf of my Group, the Group of the European People's Party, and to be able to submit a proposal for a compromise which will make itself felt in the vote.
It is not true that good bananas are produced in the ACP States and the European Union, and bad bananas in Latin America.
The situation is not as clear-cut as that.
Latin America too has small-scale producers who are hardhit by market regulation, because they do not have access to licences like multinational companies.
We must take these small-scale producers into account.
Therefore I ask you to vote in favour of Amendment No 12, which I have introduced jointly with a number of colleagues from many different States.
To move on to the tariff quota, we have here two extreme positions, firstly the one which finds expression in Amendments Nos 10 and 11, which provides for a drastic increase in the tariff quota, way beyond the Commission proposal.
This position is not so far-fetched, since it has also been adopted by a number of national delegations in the Council of Ministers.
The other extreme position finds expression in Amendment No 6, put forward by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, namely that the tariff quota be retained.
It is true that we have a new situation here, since the three new Member States have hitherto imported only 'dollar' bananas.
Thus we have two extremes.
The PPE Group will vote against Amendment No 6, and the colleagues with whom I introduced Amendments Nos 10 and 11 will withdraw both these amendments.
In the interests of a compromise, I ask the whole House to join in voting against Amendment No 6, so that we can really achieve unanimity on this difficult question.
