Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when politicians are in charge of everything - and that is all very well in itself - they get things wrong.
And when the European Union is in charge of everything - which is also all very well in itself - it gets things particularly wrong, because it has an unfortunate tendency to attract criticism for what it does.
That danger is present once again with the proposal for a directive on integrated resource planning.
Behind this arcane concept lies something that is basically worthwhile.
The idea is that energy suppliers should invest not only in supply, but also in the efficient use of energy.
In other words, they should be providing services rather than simply selling something.
Of course, in many instances, this worthwhile activity is already going on and the companies are taking responsibility for it, but in our opinion - and in my own opinion too - it is not sufficiently widespread.
The intelligent thing to do, therefore, would be to make an appropriate recommendation and to rely on good examples and competition.
But if instead we wave a big stick with new legislation - a directive at EU level - then four brief comments are required.
Firstly, the proposal takes no account of the aspect of subsidiarity, which we are supposed to make a point of respecting.
Secondly, the proposal carries the whiff of a new bout of planning, new authorities and controls - in a word, of bureaucracy, with an extensive new planning apparatus for which the taxpayer has to foot the bill.
Thirdly - and I shall be blunt about this - it is disturbing to see how Parliament can sometimes duck and weave on the question of legal bases, in this case actually opposing the decision of the Committee on Legal Affairs.
The concern here is less about meeting the conditions for establishing a base upon which actions can be authorized than about whether the decision is to the advantage of everyone taking it.
I hope that the European Court of Justice will address this issue at some stage.
Fourthly, when I go on to read that the energy providers are supposed to set up two companies to offer third-party financing, then I have to wonder in all seriousness what the point is of Europe being well catered for by all kinds of banks.
Are energy providers now to take over banking too?
In a nutshell, we believe it is right to be concerned about this issue, but this is the wrong legislation.
For that reason, we shall be abstaining as a group.
