Thank you, Mr President.
The sad fact is that, given the challenges we face - and many speakers have listed them - this programme of action from the Commission has nothing to offer.
It is high time that we stopped suppressing our problems and abandoned the increasingly unconvincing practice of glossing over differences to sustain a crumbling semblance of optimism.
Repeating mantra-like that 'EMU equals growth, equals a balanced budget, equals employment' is pointless if everyone has ceased to believe it.
We must face up to the differences that clearly exist and we must not conceal the real contradictions, because it is only by acknowledging them that we can determine the tasks that lie before us and then tackle them effectively with courage, strength and realism.
This would involve a genuinely dynamic interpretation of the Commission's right of initiative.
We need to move towards a new model of development.
We need to halve unemployment by the year 2000.
We need to gradually dismantle the entrenched structures of social exclusion and poverty in this Europe of ours.
It is time that we included a chapter on employment in the Treaty, and an environmental and social union.
We need to coordinate and consolidate our Community's tax and financial policies, and finally make full use of our own resources.
These steps should then form the basis for completing the internal market and for introducing a sustainable monetary union - not the other way round.
As Mr Santer rightly said, unemployment is undermining the trust of our European citizens.
That is why we need a sea-change in politics: we need to regain the trust that will give us a basis for moving to a new type of full employment.
We too wish to see European integration.
Europeanization is our best hope in the face of economic globalization, but it should not mean the continuation of the neo-liberal, monetarist political model, based on increased production, which dominates the Maastricht Treaty and is forcing the Commission to ditch more and more of the Delors White Paper on competitiveness and employment.
We wish to see a different kind of Europe - one that no longer bends to the will of transnational companies, the material constraints of the world market or the daily decisions of financiers, instead of being guided by the decisions of its citizens.
