Mr President, today's debate on the costs of enlargement is in itself a positive signal, indicating that Parliament is prepared to address itself to the difficult issue of the costs of enlargement, and I am very grateful to the rapporteur for his efforts.
As to whether or not it was wise to embark on this difficult matter of the financing before sufficiently reliable data exist for an estimate of the costs, that is open to question.
Both this own-initiative report from the Committee on Budgets and the report by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, which is to be debated next and is closely connected with this one, raise more questions than they answer.
There is a danger of this being interpreted as a negative attitude on the part of the House, so one thing must be stated clearly and explicitly, and I wish to do so here and now in no uncertain terms on behalf of my group: we hope to see a new order in Europe, whereby the whole of the continent will develop together in a community of interests, and we wish this to happen as soon and as effectively as possible.
Answers to the outstanding questions will be found, in conjunction - I hope - with the associated countries.
There are already many different estimates of the costs of enlargement.
Sceptics always put forward high estimates and supporters low ones; so far, I have seen no estimates of the costs of non-enlargement.
The Christodoulou report tends towards the former, in my view: for example, it assumes that ten countries could accede simultaneously.
That is so unrealistic as to have only two possible explanations: either it is an attempt to influence the debate in a negative way, or it reveals a lack of real knowledge about what is at stake.
The costs cannot be estimated with any degree of certainty until it has been established which countries are to accede to the Union, in what order, and at what point in time.
Economic development in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe is another factor.
Here I would urge a study of the trade statistics and economic data.
As for enlargement itself: the accessions will be phased, so let us not get carried away by our misgivings!
That would be poor form on the part of the only directly elected international parliament.
Economic development in the countries of Central and Eastern Europe will create more financial room for manoeuvre.
For us, for the European Parliament, no task should be of greater importance or interest - after the cold war and the end of the confrontation between power blocs - than to help make the twenty-first century a European century in the best sense of the word.
