Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will only be speaking on the subject of Serbia.
My colleagues have already said all there is to say on the other subject.
We are currently seeing a sought-after partner of all the Western governments shamelessly presuming the right to annul election results that do not suit him.
Even the Serbian judges administer justice according to the wishes of Mr Milosevi&#x010D;.
This manipulation makes it clear to every last one of us that Serbia is not a constitutional state.
The gagging of the media and the defamation of the peaceful demonstrators are further, manifest evidence of the communist despotism of this government.
Serbia cannot remain the family business of Milosevi&#x010D; and Markovi&#x010D;.
Unlike the USA, the Council reacted very hesitantly.
Why was it afraid to openly stand up for democracy and basic rights, although it is our flags that are flown during these demonstrations?
Serbia is now paying the price for the fact that, unlike all the other successor states, it did not have to comply with the 1991 Badinter criteria in order to be recognized.
Moreover, a solution to the Kosovo question should have been made a precondition.
Of course Kosovo should also have been on the Dayton agenda.
Negligence and sins of omission of this kind have disastrous consequences.
The Yugoslav leaders are not showing the slightest inclination towards democratic reforms.
The people in that country do not feel free, they feel they have been cheated of their basic rights.
On my last visit to Belgrade in June many Serbs said to me: you are concerning yourself with the rights of Albanians in Kosovo.
Do so.
But we need help too.
Who is helping us to exercise our basic rights?
The three leaders of the Savetno opposition came to Brussels at the end of October at my invitation to meet the delegation for relations with south-eastern Europe.
Of course the political ideas and the statements made by Mr Draskovic and Mr Djindji in recent years merely reflected greater Serbian and nationalistic ambitions.
They still approved of Karadzic when Milosevi dropped him as a result of Western pressure.
The alliance with the only genuinely democratic force in Serbia, Vesnapesi's party, offers some hope, however, that the opposition wants democratic progress.
That is why it is up to us, and in particular to Serbia's Western partners, to condemn Milosevi's undemocratic conduct and to show solidarity with the peaceful demonstrators from the opposition.
Given that the opposition alliance is fragile, outside support for its aims might convince the population that a change of government could mean a step towards more democracy.
We expect the Serbian leadership, government and opposition to find a rapid solution to the Kosovo question, failing which there can be no peace in the region.
The democracy that needs to be established in Bosnia also depends on democratic conditions prevailing in Belgrade.
I call upon the Council to pursue these European goals more emphatically and uncompromisingly and finally to give a signal that it is doing so in Dublin!
