Mr President, I am very grateful to the rapporteur, Mr Christodoulou, for this report.
It is a fact that any country in Central or Eastern Europe which wishes to do so may become a member of the European Union, as we have agreed here in the House.
Moreover, it is a fact that ten applications for membership have so far been received from these countries.
It is also a fact that the levels of development of the ten candidates, in relation to the conditions for membership, are very diverse, so that their accession in one group is most unlikely.
It is also a fact that the accession of Central and Eastern European countries would end the division of Europe and change the face of the Union altogether.
Enlargement is an opportunity and a challenge for the Union, but also for the applicant states.
The Christodoulou report is a parliamentary own-initiative report, which seeks to explain the financial consequences of EU enlargement.
At the present time it can only attempt to do this, and that is why it is an interim report.
The debate and discussion on this report have reflected the breadth of opinion on the matter.
This report should serve as a warning to all - including the Union - as regards the likely effects of sticking rigidly to the present structural and agricultural policies, for example.
But it should also show the applicant states what efforts we are expecting of them on their journey towards membership of the European Union.
No one should see this report as a means of impeding or preventing the accession of new Member States.
But nor should anyone see it as a means of preserving the status quo for ever more.
Rather, this report should signal that enlargement is certain to go ahead.
We must now seek the ways and means of making it happen - perhaps I should already say in conjunction with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
In my view, it is in no one's interest to belong to a European Union which has no future.
It is now up to us as MEPs to address ourselves to this future, and to seek ways ahead for an enlarged European Union.
The interim report is an attempt to do just that, no more and no less!
