Madam President, once again the USA wants to play world legislator and is not keeping to the rules that were agreed in the framework of the WTO.
We cannot let this be done to us.
In the REX Committee all the groups were in agreement on that.
After the Council gave its assent in mid-July, the Commission has now presented a proposal for an anti-blockade regulation.
The REX Committee - and here again all the groups agreed - believes that it would be preferable for measures on the basis of this regulation to be taken by the Commission rather than the Council.
Parliament itself has been calling for this kind of anti-blockade legislation since 1992, since the USA reinforced the blockade against Cuba with the Torricelli Act.
The Council and in particular the German Government have been the main stumbling blocks so far.
Nor did the Commission fall over backwards to act.
Presumably at the time people expected the Cuban business to sort itself out by itself within a few years.
But last year the Cuban economy recovered somewhat and now the USA is tightening the screws of the blockade even further, supposedly in order to promote the spread of democracy.
But that was also how it justified its support for the military coup in Chile and for the Mujahedin in Afghanistan.
Once again the Council and the Commission did not act, did not immediately take the matter before the WTO.
Only when the trade interests of the EU, especially of Germany and France, were seriously affected by the d'Amato Act did frantic activity break out on all sides.
But after the EU has kept quiet for so long, people will no longer believe that it really intends to hit back now.
This anti-blockade legislation is a few years too late.
If European trade interests are suffering now, that is primarily the fault of the national governments, but it is also because of the Commission's failure to act.
After years of inaction on the part of the Union followed by the frantic activity of recent weeks, the attempt by the EU to adopt a common position risks being defeated by Denmark's veto.
I have the fullest understanding for the reservations expressed by Denmark, which does not want to create a precedent for giving the Commission wider general powers with the anti-blockade legislation.
Such matters belong in the intergovernmental conference, which is where they should be resolved by agreement.
But in this specific case we need prompt action, which is why I appeal to all parties concerned to put aside the legal disputes and come to a rapid agreement on this question.
