Mr President, to what extent is the Council actually still able to decide - that is the crucial question here, which goes far beyond the subject of research.
That is not your problem, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, it is not Mr Rabitte's problem; the Council as a whole is unable to decide and, as previous speakers have made very clear, is putting off the decisions.
Here one has to ask what the European Union and the institutions look like from outside.
The Commission proposes task forces.
This gives the impression that suddenly something very special is happening at European level.
Large task forces are to be set up, the industry adapts itself!
And what is the end result?
No decision, hot air; in the end we are disgracing ourselves.
Today we still do not know whether we will get nothing, get 100 million or 200 million, get it perhaps in two years' time?
Neither we nor those who are watching us have any information on that.
But we also have a problem with the Commission.
For strictly speaking the Commission will have to revise its proposal, internally at least, in view of the presumably realistic background of about ECU 100 million for next year.
There is talk of a number of task forces, and this is also mentioned in the Council decision.
The European Parliament has also given its views on a number of task forces.
If we now only have 100 million available for the next year, that will have to be distributed.
And then the Commission will have to tell us where it puts the priorities.
So strictly speaking this is a problem we all three have and that could certainly be resolved in the appropriate trialogue, not through spontaneous action but in a proper, organized trialogue.
In my view that should be possible.
The problem is exacerbated by the fact that we have already begun to discuss the fifth framework research programme.
And this increase in the funding of the fourth framework research programme is a kind of qualifying round for the fifth framework research programme.
These task forces are a test of what we may find in the fifth framework research programme.
There are certainly some very interesting ideas in it.
But decisions also have to be taken.
Parliament made you an offer, the Committee on Budgets put this offer, and Parliament will take a decision on this too.
That is a good basis and a realistic one on which we could work.
I very much hope it will not take much longer until we really do achieve a basis of trust so that we are not just seen, from the outside too, to be producing hot air but really can also take decisions.
