Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after we all survived the first reading in the Committee on Transport and in plenary I must say quite frankly that I am somewhat surprised now at second reading to see the Socialists suddenly diverging from our common road.
But at this point we should no longer be surprised at anything relating to the Socialists' politics.
What we are discussing today is a major component of our single market legislation.
It concerns the approximation not just of type approval but also of technical tests and integrating them on a European basis.
Let me base myself partly on the amendments.
The crucial one is of course Amendment No 8, the reduction of the frequency of tests to three years after the date of first use, and thereafter every year for the listed categories of vehicle, which now also include vehicles for the public transport of passengers.
I think that is a decisive point in relation to transport safety questions, which are of course more serious in the case of older vehicles than newly approved ones.
In the case of Amendment No 10, which goes back to my initiative - it concerns the cold start of vehicles - I would like to point out that the Socialists in particular call for such things on every conceivable and inconceivable occasion and keep demanding environmental standards which are no longer feasible for the industry.
At present we are discussing the motor-oil programme in the Committee on the Environment.
I am drafting the opinion for the Committee on Research.
Here we have something which is already being tested in the United States, for example, and is included in the measurement cycle.
And suddenly we are told: no, we cannot do that, it would be outrageous because it was never included in the directive.
Even if we may not manage to get this through here because the Socialists do not support us, we will certainly manage to have it included in the motor-oil programme or in later Euro-3/Euro-4 legislation.
I wonder how enthusiastically the PSE Group will then approve it.
We will reject Amendment No 6 - and here we agree with Mr Brian Simpson.
I myself am a local politician, we ourselves have a municipal fire-brigade, and they really are the most beautiful vehicles you could ever see.
They are always perfectly polished, perfectly maintained, always filled up, the oil level is checked at least once a day and these vehicles really are in top condition; here the exception is definitely justified.
I also regard it as acceptable for the old-timers to be granted special protection.
That is why we will reject Amendment No 6.
Amendment No 7: I do believe it is possible to bring all this into force in the space of six months.
Here we really should deal a bit fairly with one another.
Similarly, in the case of Amendment No 9 I can only support the rapporteur.
We have to exert a little pressure here to ensure that certain vehicles are taken off the road if they do not satisfy certain genuinely important requirements for the safety of other transport users, for instance in relation to brakes.
Speed limitation devices are another question that still needs examining.
Today 50 % of the value of a vehicle is accounted for by electronics.
Those are questions we are not examining.
So something cannot be right here.
And surely a speed limitation device is the most harmless thing one could ask for.
We will still have much to do in this area of electronics in future in relation to the regular tests.
The EPP will also support Amendment No 5 concerning two- and three-wheeled vehicles.
After all we have been waiting for ages for the Commission's words of wisdom on this.
To summarize, the EPP will support all the amendments except for Amendment No 6.
