Mr President, I should like to begin by complimenting the rapporteur, Mr Christodoulou, on his report.
It has stimulated an open debate in this House on enlargement to the east, although I would caution against creating the impression that the cake is becoming ever smaller, and that we are already starting to fight over the best piece.
Secondly, I would urge that we avoid replacing the imminent blending of East and West - namely eastward enlargement of the European Union - with a North-South divide.
Enlargement to the east is a subject of tremendous importance for my country, since Austria borders on four potential applicant states - Hungary, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Slovenia - which, together with Poland, will be among the first to accede, in all likelihood.
The iron curtain, the fault-line which divided Europe, used to run along these borders.
In Austria, we regard enlargement to the east as an opportunity to mend this fault and complete the unification of Europe, a process in which politics is still lagging behind the economic reality.
Austria's economic ties with Central Europe are already extensive: 13 % of our exports go to this region, a third of all investments have been made there, and 56 000 jobs have resulted from these links with the east.
Naturally, the balance sheet has both a credit and a debit side.
Company relocations to the east, where workers earn a tenth of our wages, and the pressure from the latter to move to the high-wage countries, mean that many of our citizens see enlargement to the east as a nightmare.
For this reason, unlike the rapporteur, Mr Christodoulou, I am in favour of phased integration, with exemptions and long transitional periods, especially in respect of the free movement of persons.
The second major problem is agriculture.
If all the Central European countries were to accede at the same time - which in fact is most unlikely - Europe's utilized agricultural area would increase by 55 %.
I am therefore in favour of a reform of the CAP, but would warn against an over-hasty alignment of farm prices to Western market levels.
Our farmers could not cope with that.
Central Europe's economic structures must be supported under the PHARE programme, the funding for which should be increased.
As an Austrian, I believe that enlargement to the east must be linked to conditions such as the abandonment of nuclear energy by Central Europe in the long term; until that is possible, the nuclear power stations there must be made safe and brought up to our environmental standards.
It would cost ÖS 702 billion for the CCEE to comply with the EU water directive alone.
But the raising of environmental standards helps to promote fair competition for everyone.
Last but not least, respect for human rights and democracy must be ensured in all these countries, since the EU is after all a community based on shared values.
All of this has its price.
I would call upon the House to see this price as an investment in the secure future of Europe.
