Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for a long time now the soya bean has been regarded as an ideal ingredient in organic and health food.
Whether it takes the form of a sandwich spread or a drink, its triumphant progress along the supermarket shelves seemed to be unstoppable.
Until now, that is.
The first consignment of genetically modified soya beans that arrived in Hamburg last week has slightly dented this image.
Are consumers' fears really justified?
I believe that we should put consumer protection first.
We should insist - and all the speakers have touched on this point - on the labelling of genetically modified foodstuffs.
We always talk about the responsible consumer.
The purpose of this newly developed seed is to limit the use of herbicides.
With genetic engineering, we now have, for the first time, an opportunity to implement biological pest control on a broad basis, and this will really help to solve environmental problems.
There are a great many highyielding crop plants, but I am of the opinion that the breeding of even better plants should not be abandoned.
It is urgently necessary in order to provide the world's population with sufficient quantities of food.
In the last 40 years the human race has doubled in size, and food production has risen in the same proportion.
Forty years ago, if we had tried to combat famine by redistribution alone, which is what many people wanted to do at the time, and still want to do now, then we would have abandoned half of the world's population to face death by starvation.
However, since the world's population looks set to grow by a further 2.5 billion people in the next 30 years, bringing the total number to 8 billion, we are going to have to find ways of increasing the available food supply.
Since the world's agricultural land is already being fully used, increased yields can only be achieved by means of better plant material and more efficient management of natural resources.
Genetic engineering creates a better starting point for the fight against hunger in the world, and therefore I believe that it is irresponsible not to take advantage of this opportunity but to leave it to others.
