Mr President, once again I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs André-Léonard, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, for the work that she has done.
I think that we agree on many points, and we have produced some satisfactory compromises and proposals for improving on the common position.
It may be that media interest in AIDS in the developing countries has declined, but in any event it is not a major subject of public debate at the moment.
However, there is a continuing tragedy in these countries, and it is important for us too, as the European Parliament, to send out a clear signal and show that we care about the problem.
A number of speakers have referred to the fact that there seems to have been a breakthrough in treatment.
Firstly, however, it is still unclear what the long-term prospects are and, secondly, it is also an unfortunate fact that people in the developing countries may never be able to afford the treatment in question.
We must recognize quite clearly that action must be taken here.
We must try to help everyone, but at present we can only regard prevention - the use of precautions - as the key element, and this is another aspect which should attract increased spending from the budget line.
It is also important that we should not adopt any sort of ideological approach in this respect, and I make no bones about that: we all know that condoms are a key to solving the problem, and the most important means of prevention.
That is why Amendment No 12 is also important, and the European Parliament should say unambiguously that condoms are a key to solving the problem.
At the same time, it is untrue, despite frequent statements to the contrary, that all we have to do is distribute condoms: we must take into consideration all the problems which prevent people from using condoms.
Nor should we be saying that the use of condoms is the only way to avoid AIDS - because that is scientifically incorrect.
There are still people who do not need condoms because they do not change their sexual partners - and we should simply state that fact.
But we do have to look after the rest of the population, and that is why Amendment No 12 should receive unequivocal support and has the backing of our group.
I am grateful to the rapporteur and to the House for the fact that we have been able to discuss this issue in a way that is genuinely free from ideology, without ending up apportioning blame, for example to the Church.
There were a number of amendments to that effect, which have not been retabled, but - as the relevant amendment says - what we should be doing is promoting a dialogue in cases where religious communities oppose the use of means of prevention.
In every religious community, sensible people are working at the grassroots and addressing the problem, and this is something that we should support.
