Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I want to thank President Santer and the President-inOffice of the Council for their statements, but also for the work that has been done to bring the Intergovernmental Conference up to this point.
When we evaluate the Irish document it is only fair that we do not expect to find results before us at this stage; instead it intelligently reflects the negotiations to date and I must say that in some points that are of particular interest to the European Parliament it even goes a little further than the negotiations to date.
I find what the Irish presidency of the Council said about the co-decision powers of the European Parliament particularly interesting.
This document clearly states that in future there should only be three decision-making procedures and that the co-decision procedure should be the general rule for legislation.
Obviously some questions of definition and delimitation remain to be clarified.
But on what is perhaps the key question for the European Parliament, it now creates a basis on which it will be easy to continue negotiating under the Dutch presidency of the Council.
The need to expand the system of qualified majority decisions was also addressed.
I am especially glad that in their letters President Chirac and Chancellor Kohl stated that qualified majority decisions would be the rule in the Council, that certain exceptions could be made but that majority decisions would be the rule.
If we regard these as key areas in relation to achieving greater democracy, transparency and ability to act and in preparation for enlargement, then I think this combination may really have given us a chance to make progress in this area at the IGC.
However we in Parliament must also say that there is still a whole range of questions in relation to which we are certainly not at all content.
I think very little progress has been made so far on the whole question of foreign and security policy or on the role of the decision-making procedures; constructive abstention is merely an alibi and does not resolve the problem of a destructive country being able to block decisions.
This immediately takes us to the question of the dual voting mechanisms.
Policy in general is decided unanimously, its implementation by a majority decision.
We already had that in the Maastricht Treaty and it did not work.
That means that we have to give considerably more thought to the question of decision-making procedures and foreign and security policy than what is reflected in the documents and negotiations to date.
But we must also say that it would be unacceptable to Parliament if the institutions could not deal with new areas, which may be transferred from the third pillar - and thank God it is the third pillar - to the first pillar fully and exactly the same way as the classical first pillar areas.
That is why we have to reject the idea of a Pillar 1B or whatever it is called and demand full participation by the Commission, Parliament and the European Court of Justice here in order to have genuine constitutional and democratic controls.
I find it intolerable that we have not yet made any headway on the budget question.
The directly elected European Parliament has no direct influence on 50 % of the budget.
If it comes to the point where, against every rule of logic, the areas of the second and third pillar are also designated as compulsory expenditure, in order to reduce or even obviate any chance of Parliament having decision-making powers there, then I must tell the Member States that in this regard I would say that in Parliament's view an intergovernmental conference that came to that conclusion would not have come to a satisfactory conclusion.
In regard to employment, foreign trade, the integrating effect of consumer policy and environmental policy, the Irish presidency of the Council has produced outstanding proposals.
We should ask the Dublin summit to give the Netherlands presidency of the Council a special mandate to simplify the Treaties.
The Irish presidency of the Council has produced a good structural basis for the further negotiations.
I would like to thank Noel Dorr for chairing the Group of Representatives in such an excellent, professional and humane manner.
I hope we can continue to work on this basis in order to obtain what is best for the Union.
