Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Irish presidency for the way it has approached the IGC so far, and as far as an evaluation of Dublin I is concerned, my view is that Dublin I and Dublin II must be viewed jointly.
I believe, also, that Dublin I achieved its objectives of confirming the timetable and generating political momentum.
That political momentum needs to be generated in order to ensure that the negotiations do not become the preserve of the technocrats.
Happily, the Irish presidency has made it clear, with its questionnaire on majority decisions, that technocratization is not the right approach.
The case-by-case procedure and majority decision process show that this cannot be a solution - that matters must be decided politically, in order to achieve the necessary advances and ensure the European Union's ability to act.
There are many examples of this, in foreign trade for instance.
Unless we succeed, when granting mandates, for example in the services sector, in arriving at the majority decision process then, because of the package solution that will take place when mandates are next granted, we shall have a less strong European Union: the Commission, too, will have less authority at the negotiating table than it did during the Uruguay Round.
This is just one example to illustrate that we should not be talking about progress so much as endeavouring to preserve the status quo; but the status quo can only be preserved if we do make progress in certain institutional matters.
I would, however, also like to utter a word of warning about the deparliamentarization taking place in some areas.
This applies to ideas associated with the third pillar: some things which play a part in foreign relations indicate that deparliamentarization may result from the initiatives by specialized ministries in various national capitals.
Unless we are on our guard at this Intergovernmental Conference, this will happen to the detriment of the European Parliament and to the detriment of the national Parliaments.
That must not be allowed to happen.
Nor do the proposals regarding the introduction of a new pillar 1a in the area of the third pillar make the Treaty any clearer or more comprehensible for the citizen.
As regards questions relating to the first pillar, the need is to strengthen the existing institutions of the first pillar, including the Commission and Parliament; in no circumstances must we follow the Council's desire to create special conditions for its national institutions.
And that includes safeguarding the Commission's exclusive right of initiative, in all respects.
Strengthening the institutions in the area where we are successful - that should be our approach.
We should certainly not tamper with the chapter on monetary union and make amendments to it.
But we do hope to gain recognition for an employment chapter which is not merely social policy; for that reason, the employment chapter must not be integrated into the social policy sector but belongs between economic and monetary union on the one hand and social policy on the other.
This, I think, might be a middle road to lead us all further forward.
