Mr President, it is traditional in the House to thank and congratulate the rapporteur.
I regard that as a fine custom.
The only problem is that it then becomes difficult to compliment a rapporteur in a special and personal way for a special report.
That is what I should like to do in this case.
I had been expecting a technocratic report on the formation and financing of parties, and find instead a report that situates itself within a constitutional debate and asks the crucial question: the question of sovereign power in the process of European integration, the question of citizenship, and thus of how to legitimize European integration.
I regard that as a key question.
Parliament is now at last resuming a role in the constitutional debate.
That is why I congratulate the rapporteur.
And that is why we shall vote in favour of the report.
The Greens regard the process of creating a constitution in the EU as the greatest political challenge, and we are very sorry that the Intergovernmental Conference is taking no initiatives along these lines.
This brings me to a possible objection which has already been mentioned: precisely because the report has such a fundamental constitutional ambition, we believe that it is in fact necessary to seek an amendment to the Treaty, and not to remain outside the Intergovernmental Conference.
Another objection - which has also been mentioned already - concerns the question of individual membership.
Particularly because European integration today is caught between a resurgence of nationalism on the one hand and the emergence of a supranational technocracy on the other, individual membership is a very important symbol of the formation of the European citizenship that I referred to.
I also believe that it should be possible to hold membership outside the EU, because Europe reaches beyond the EU and this would be a way of demonstrating our openness and the invitation that we extend to the rest of Europe.
Otherwise, we are very grateful for the report, and I should like once again to express my appreciation for the fact that, after years in which the constitutional debate had been abandoned and failed to move forward, this discussion has now been started.
