Mr President, I should just like to point out to Mr Lukas that the elections are over, so there is no need for him to make any more election speeches.
Turning to the support programme in the field of books and reading - which is particularly important in our media age - I should like to take this opportunity of thanking Mrs Mouskouri for all her hard work.
In the late 1980s, the Commission, with the support of Parliament, introduced a European literary prize and a prize for the best translations of European works of literature, as a way of promoting books and reading.
What we should therefore be doing today is celebrating the fact that we have reached this second reading stage on the Ariane cultural support programme, the objectives of which are indeed worthy ones: the promotion and wider dissemination of contemporary works of literature and drama, and encouraging cooperation by networks and partnerships.
The element of cooperation with the Council of Europe is also important, as is the fact that the programme will be open to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Personally, I think it is particularly important that literature from Eastern Europe - literature that is unknown because, in many cases, it was banned for a long time - should be recognized and distributed in the European Union too.
This would all be very laudable, but the financial aspect of the programme is extremely disappointing.
Originally it was to have a budget of ECU 34 million and to run for five years.
By the Commission's reckoning, and according to our own members in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, that should have allowed for the translation of 2400 works of literature and 650 plays.
However, after a pilot project in 1996, the intention is not only to delay the programme, or reduce its duration to two years - which would be damaging enough - but to give it a budget of only ECU 7 m.
I would strongly argue that it should be ECU 10 m.
As regards the comitology, the proposal for a joint advisory and management committee is particularly unacceptable in the area of culture.
We know that bureaucracy is particularly resented by artists, and it is counterproductive in this area.
Just as Ariadne's thread helped Theseus to find his way out of the labyrinth, I hope that the new Ariane support programme for contemporary literature - while it may not resolve all our problems - will, with the help of writers and translators, give us a better sense of where we are going in Europe.
