Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's report on the single market is an open call for us to use the instruments at our disposal to organize the Union's economic management more effectively - whilst not forgetting, Mr Konrad, the social dimension of the market economy, and not thinking only of the free movement of capital, goods and services, but also of the free movement of persons.
We must ensure that we build a Europe which is in the interests of people, and the reports which have been presented to the House today are a good starting-point for this.
It would be welcome if responses and proposals in this area were forthcoming from the Commission.
With regard to the single market and its completion, I would point out that, as long ago as last year, Parliament produced a list of criticisms, including the inadequate harmonization of environmental and tax regulations and the shortcomings in the training of customs and tax officials in the operation of the internal market.
Furthermore, something else is becoming clear in this debate: the fact that, in the Maastricht Treaty, which has been improved since the launching of the single market, we have a genuinely effective set of European policymaking instruments.
On the one hand, there is the single market; on the other, there are the competition, merger, structural and industrial policies, and also - as Mr Kuckelkorn has made quite clear - the policies in favour of small and medium-sized enterprises, which together form the basis for us to establish a genuine confidence pact for Europe.
That element is still missing, and I believe that our enthusiasm in calling on the Heads of State and Government to add this component should remain undiminished.
I mention all these factors together because the report by Mrs García Arias also clearly refers to the fact that competition policy - aid monitoring policy, for example - must be sensibly linked to the review of structural policy.
The instruments exist, therefore, but they are not yet being used efficiently enough.
Clearly, we must seek to persuade the Member States to make greater efforts in this respect.
It is particularly unacceptable, in my view, that there are still distortions of competition caused by inadequate tax harmonization, with the effect that there is sometimes talk of cut-throat tax competition within the single market.
I believe that a number of Members of the Commission could help to put a stop to this.
I should welcome it, Mr Van Miert, if the next report on competition policy were to go into greater detail on the extent to which tax concessions - tax allowance programmes and provisions - in the different Member States contribute to the distortion of competition, and what we must do to counter this.
I should also like to know how regional cooperation and industrial policy can be brought together more effectively, without jeopardizing competition.
So I think this report on the single market represents a further step towards the European institutions being able to say with a clear conscience that, if the division of tasks between the regions, the Member States and the Union works properly, then they do have something to offer.
