Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is Advent, it is the time when children write to Father Christmas, the time to picture the following scene: it is Christmas Eve, there is a large package under the Christmas tree, the package looks wonderful, it makes the child feel very hopeful; it is so big that it would have room for every wish on its Christmas list.
Then the child begins to unpack it, to unwrap it, and to go on unwrapping it.
Inside one box is another box, the child goes on unpacking more and more desperately and it becomes more and more clear that the package is empty, there is nothing inside it.
It consists of nothing but empty boxes.
That is every child's nightmare, and what is happening with the revision of the Maastricht Treaty is the same kind of nightmare.
When I read the Council's proposals for the Dublin conference I feel like the child I have been describing.
These plans and projects are not the answer to our wishes.
What we wrote on our wish list was: more transparency, more democracy, more rights for the European Parliament.
What happened?
The opposite, for the Dublin documents contain not more but less transparency because the Council wants to continue its absolutist reign of power and secrecy.
They contain not more but less democracy because they reduce the rights of the citizens to wishes, because although they refer to anti-discrimination, in fact they create an even more hierarchical system, because for the Council certainty is never legal certainty, for how else could freedom of movement be deferred to the next millennium and Europol be equipped with operational powers without any controls?
They contain not more but fewer rights for Parliament because they drastically widen the gulf between the single market and the second and third pillar, because the proposal on foreign policy does not once mention the European Parliament but instead refers ever more frequently to WEU and because in foreign and domestic policy we, the European Parliament, are to be deprived of our budgetary powers.
These proposals contain not more but less Europe.
And what is far worse is that the package is not just empty but is doom-laden.
That is not the fault of the Irish presidency.
I wish us all a happy Christmas and, I hope, a better New Year!
