Mr President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, Mr Howitt, on behalf of my group as well as myself.
The subject of his report is the fate of refugees in Asia and Latin America.
All of these refugees have to endure harsh conditions.
I had the opportunity, a little over a year ago, of seeing the situation for myself on a private visit to Central America.
Among the places I visited were refugee aid projects run by the European Union and by NGOs which are supported by the Commission.
It is shocking to be confronted with such images: to see how people have been driven out, how they have lost all their possessions and must now begin the slow process of rebuilding their lives and somehow recovering.
The Commission and the NGOs that are funded from this budget heading are supporting people in such situations, and their help is needed.
Instead of putting obstacles in the way of those who are actively helping on the ground, we should do our utmost to facilitate their task and support them.
That is why I should like to mention once again a particular problem which came to my attention both on the private visit that I referred to, and on a visit by a European Parliament delegation to Nicaragua.
Projects which are funded from this particular budget line meet enormous problems when it comes to procuring equipment.
We were made aware of the specific problems faced both by NGOs and the Commission in procuring vehicles, because priority has to be given to European products when these are purchased for use in the projects.
There may well be reasons for this requirement, but it poses major problems because there is no infrastructure for these European products and no spare parts, because deliveries are an extremely complex business.
That is why I should like to re-emphasize the need for great flexibility, and if problems arise or the products in question are abnormally expensive, it must be possible to fall back on products from other countries of origin.
The fact is that our main purpose with this budget line is not to support the European economy - that would be indefensible - but to help people.
If our ability to help is compromised because we put bureaucratic obstacles in our own way, then the budget line is failing to achieve its objective.
I had originally tabled an amendment on this issue.
However, I think that I should withdraw it, because I am confident that the Commission will interpret the Council's compromise proposal here in a sufficiently flexible way to allow the NGOs and the Commission staff who are working on the ground to provide flexible help, rather than saddling them with unnecessary bureaucracy that prevents them from helping people.
