Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I know that when the Court of Auditors' report is presented here, and indeed for several weeks beforehand, the interested public waits for the great scandal which can be put across well in headlines.
Once this scandal has been announced, once it has been identified, calm descends again.
This is just the kind of process that we do not wish to see.
In the first place, of course, we do not wish to have any scandals, but secondly we should like the detailed everyday work, which is also a reflection of the whole issue, to be given rather more prominence.
I would therefore agree with Mr Tomlinson, who said that our work begins now.
I should like to illustrate this with a topical example.
This morning, we voted on a request for urgency from the Council, on which the rapporteur was Mr Garriga Polledo.
It was said that there was unanimity on his report in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
That is correct; we were agreed unanimously.
But we were simply amazed in our discussions at how the Member States have so far dealt with the directions they were given.
It is precisely this sense of amazement, this incredible realization that directions are simply not being implemented and so time limits have to be extended, which is now reflected in the report from the Court of Auditors.
Today's request for urgency was quite rightly not approved.
But that is the detailed work.
These are not the spectacular things which can be used to bring home to the public what is happening.
This is what is giving rise to difficulties, however - the fact that there are many good regulations which are being applied inadequately or not at all, and that it is hard to actually monitor their implementation.
I have one great concern.
SEM 2000 has been referred to, and it was said that, by and large, the Member States were in agreement with it.
However, I have heard that some Member States or parts of Member States are already letting it be known that the contents of SEM 2000 are at odds with their constitutional or administrative situation, not least in the area of the Structural Funds.
This means that while we see a remedy, people are already lining up in the Member States to undermine the decisions which are being taken.
That causes me a great deal more concern than one major individual scandal would have done.
