Mr President, I have listened to the debate so far with close attention, and in doing so I have been sorry to note a very short-sighted view of things by some speakers.
This agreement is not just about buildings or about Italy - it is about the closer integration of Slovenia into the Europe we all share.
This is a welcome development, and we should indicate as much by voting for it.
There is one thing, though, that seems to me to have received too little coverage in this debate - the need to provide more information and instruction for the citizens of the Union as to what this agreement actually means.
One important issue here is to provide that information so that our citizens, too, can approve this agreement.
As has already been mentioned, Slovenia and the Union, thus including my own country of Austria and province of Styria, can benefit economically from these agreements.
But what has not yet been mentioned at all is the fact that all of us - not just the Slovenes but all of us in Europe and throughout this larger area - can hope for a gain in terms of our foreign and security policy from the fact that we have an opportunity to extend the domain of peace and stability to include this bitterly contested Balkan region, with beneficial results for us all.
What has been missing from this debate so far is any reference to the fact that, for the first time, this agreement includes far more in the way of provisions on nuclear security than any previous agreement of the same kind.
It has also been pointed out that we have opportunities in the field of transport infrastructure, if we take advantage of them.
In this context, however, there is another point which should be made from the Austrian point of view, though with a somewhat different emphasis from what we heard earlier.
We should never lose sight of an important sine qua non for this association agreement and, in particular, for Slovenia's future membership of the European Union.
For us, and therefore for Slovenia as a future Member State, European Union means human rights, the rule of law and the safeguarding of minority rights.
So we call upon Slovenia, as a matter of urgency, to ratify immediately the European Council Convention on the Protection of Minorities!
In this way, we can ensure that the German- and Italian-speaking minorities in that region will enjoy appropriate legal guarantees.
On the same basis, I also appeal to Slovenia to find a humane solution, in a new spirit of European cooperation, to the problem of the expropriations which, on two occasions during the twentieth century, have left their mark on that region.
