Thank you, Mr President.
Once again Belarus is on the urgent debate agenda.
In fact that reflects the dramatic worsening of the situation in this country.
President Lukashenko is systematically dividing the inhabitants of that country by suppressing any signs of opposition.
By constantly increasing his personal power he is trying to conceal his own inactivity in the transformation process.
After trying to stifle the opposition press and banning the unions and also making various attempts to exert pressure on the constitutional court, in August the president began to attack the constitution itself and now wants to transfer legislative power to himself by referendum.
The parliament is standing up to this massive attack on its existence by applying a perfect counter-strategy and using the many opportunities inherent in its democratic rules of play.
I take my hat off to this young parliament!
By summoning the union assembly of non-elected representatives last week, Lukashenko launched a frontal attack on the elected parliament, but it failed!
Nobody wants civil war in Belarus, but the country's problems cannot be resolved by a presidential dictatorship either.
The democratic forces in the country are courageous and in spite of all the attacks they are not allowing themselves to be diverted from their endeavours to bring about a democratic process of reform.
But they do not have the slightest chance of spreading their ideas throughout the country.
The parliament does not even have the chance to appear on television for the referendum.
That would be the least one could expect in any kind of democratic referendum!
The fact that we are suspending the agreement procedures does not mean that we want to isolate Belarus.
Rather, it is our last chance finally to ensure the success of the democratic forces and see an end to the old structures of the Soviet system.
I would like to send out greetings from here to all the people in Belarus who are fighting selflessly for democratic reforms and once again to express our feelings of solidarity.
At the same time I call on President Lukashenko finally to give up his lust for power and to restore freedom of the press and critical opposition in order to promote the process of transformation.
