Mr President, AIDS poses a serious threat to the third world.
The number of cases is rising not only in Africa, but in Asia and Latin America as well.
Besides the suffering of those affected, there are other problems involved: rising numbers of orphans, the strain on the health care system, and the fact that the impact of AIDS is felt particularly by the sexually active generation, which is also the economically active one.
We cannot accept the Council's common position as it stands.
Although the text includes a verbal acknowledgement of the efforts that are being made to combat AIDS, there are crucial points where the Council shies away from reality.
What do I mean by that?
Firstly, the proposed budget - the indicative amount is ECU 45 million over three years - has been set very low, and that is short-sighted.
Anyone with an understanding of the problem knows that we could use ten times as much.
No one is giving enough - and that goes for the USA, the Gulf States and Japan too - but we shall not help the situation by setting a bad example.
Secondly, Parliament called for special emphasis to be placed on the role of the mass media, and on using the mass media to raise awareness.
This is particularly important in countries with a high level of illiteracy, and with limited personnel available for awareness-raising measures.
Unfortunately, the Council has rejected our proposal - and that is unacceptable.
Thirdly, in a compromise between the socialists and Christian Democrats, Parliament came up with a formula on the following lines: we wish to see the European Union entering into a dialogue with the religious communities which continue, for religious reasons, to reject the use of condoms.
This has been deleted.
I could have understood it if the Council had said that a regulation was the wrong place for expressing such an intention but, at the same time, had decided to pursue it.
But it simply deleted the proposal without putting anything in its place, and that is a failure to face reality.
When an African miner is away from his family for three months, saying the rosary and going to church are not the only things that he misses.
Then when he comes home, he infects his wife and brings the disease into the village.
In deleting this paragraph, the Council is out of touch with reality.
I have been a Member of this House for 17 years.
Although we are away from our families for only five days at a time, I have never found it to be the case that all my fellow Members are happy to say their prayers and go to bed alone.
