Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the proposal to amend Directive 91/440/EEC, which the Commission decided in July 1995.
To make matters clearer: the four vital elements of Directive 91/440 are the independent management of the railways, a separate accounting system for railways infrastructure and rail transport services, redressing the financial situation of the former public railway undertakings and rights of access for railway undertakings in cross-frontier combined transport.
The Commission proposal we will be voting on tomorrow provides for a substantial expansion of access rights.
Under it, railway undertakings registered in the Union have the right to carry out cross-frontier passenger transport and goods transport with cabotage.
So we are concerned here with introducing almost total freedom to provide services in the railway sector.
What is the position of the Committee on Transport and Tourism?
What is its view of the Commission's amending proposal, which regards liberalization as the cure for the declining market share of the railways compared with other modes of transport?
Well, a bare majority of the committee agreed with the Commission proposal that freedom to provide services should be granted within 18 months.
I take note of that but will not conceal my conviction that this is overhasty and not appropriate to the actual situation of the railways.
Why?
In many countries this directive has still not been fully transposed into law and in particular the financial situation of railway undertakings has only been fully redressed in one country, Germany.
Other railway undertakings are still bearing the brunt of a public transport system that was very often not adequately supported by the state.
That is why the Group of the Party of European Socialists has ensured in the report that the Commission's present proposal can only be implemented once the earlier directive has been transposed in full.
Secondly, the dividing line between national and cross-frontier passenger transport is fluid.
Cross-frontier passenger transport is very often an integral component of the national timetable system.
If undertakings begin to concentrate on profitable routes, that may lead to the breakdown of the system, which will in fact affect everyone.
We have just seen in the United Kingdom what happens when several railway undertakings have to set up an integrated passenger transport system.
It is precisely those passengers whom the railway undertakings have to attract in greater numbers who most seriously doubt this system.
Thirdly, the USA which the Commission often quotes as a model cannot be a model for Europe.
It is precisely in the USA that the liberalization of passenger transport has led to the monopoly of a single undertaking, namely Amtrak.
If undertakings make profits there, then it is only because the network is geared only to goods transport and simply makes long-distance goods transport cheaper.
In Europe, however, the network happens to be based on passenger transport, which makes rail transport immensely more expensive because of the safety technology required.
Other points concern measures relating to own-capital resources and considerations of principle.
If we talk of developing railway undertakings in the Community we will have to rectify the conditions of competition for the modes of transport.
We have to put it quite plainly: the railways can only be rescued if all modes of transport are assigned the costs they incur.
So long as we only impute a fraction of the costs incurred by lorries in road transport, so long as the rules on driving and rest periods are being circumvented almost at will, we can go on and on deciding whatever we want in relation to the railways.
In the end it will remain meaningless.
That is why it is essential for the true costs to be assigned.
Let me just remind you of the external costs of ECU 250 000 million of transport by lorry.
To conclude, since this is my last statement here in plenary and I will be returning to my national parliament, I would ask you to inform your colleague, Commissioner Kinnock, that I warmly thank him and his colleagues for their very good cooperation.
I will continue this transport policy in the Austrian Parliament and I am very proud that Austrian ideas have been incorporated in the Commission's work and also that of Parliament.
