Mr President, first of all I should like to thank my colleague G端nter L端ttge most sincerely for the dedication which he, together with the Commission and the rest of us on the Steering Committee, have devoted to the preparation of the third pan-European Transport Conference.
I should remind the House that we will be continuing our discussions in Helsinki, and there are two things we hope to establish in the form of agreements.
First, the principles of the pan-European transport policy, such as the social market economy and fair competition as organizational principles of transport policy, but, G端nther, and Commissioner Kinnock, we also need to review what progress we have made in implementing the results of Prague and Crete, because there is no point in constantly adopting more and more resolutions if nobody implements them.
That will be an essential focal point.
The second point is this: we will have to examine the continuation of the trans-European transport corridors out of the European Union and into the non-Union countries of western Europe - and beyond, for example into the former Yugoslavia, into Russia and into the other CIS successor states.
In order for these conferences and the resulting recommendations to be successful, we must once again be sure that, at the third pan-European Transport Conference as at the first two, we enjoy the benefits of close cooperation - close collaboration between the Commission, Parliament, the national transport ministers and the transport ministers of the non-European States.
This is where I see the only real problem arising - G端nther, we must talk about this frankly.
I believe that the panEuropean Transport Conference should be used as an opportunity for an exchange of opinions between those who hold political responsibility, as members of parliaments and governments, on the one hand and representatives of industrial, transport and environmental associations on the other, to promote better mutual understanding.
However, we do reject the demand by the Socialist Group, which was also rejected in committee, that the representatives of the association concerned - environmental, economic or whatever - should be officially invited to attend the conference.
Commissioner, I hope you will take the same line on this, because it is no use at all to us if this Transport Conference of decision-takers from the Commission and Parliament, transport ministers - and we're very happy to welcome a few from the UN, as well - and ministers with direct or indirect political responsibility is allowed to degenerate into a technical seminar by inviting every conceivable kind of lobbyist and interest group to attend the conference.
In all seriousness, Commissioner Kinnock, please think again about this!
We Christian Democrats want this Transport Conference to be a success, which is why we want it to be a conference for decision-takers, not a technical conference.
