Mr President, under Article 130r(2) of the Treaty, ' Community policy on the environment shall be based on the precautionary principle and on the principles that preventive action should be taken, that environmental damage should as a priority be rectified at source...' .
The means of achieving this is the environmental impact assessment.
Today we have the second reading of the report by Mr Lannoye on this subject, for which I would thank him.
Perhaps I could say straight away that, unlike Mrs Dybkjær, I think the simplifications proposed here by Mr Lannoye are very important and appropriate.
We cannot have an internal market on the one hand and, on the other, test the impact of projects on the environment in different ways in different Member States.
The environmental impact assessment is the key to sustainable economic development, enabling us to avoid misguided investment, the high cost of environmental damage or irreparable destruction, and I think that cooperation between the authorities, developers and public opinion is what is needed here.
That is why I particularly welcome the amendment in which Mr Lannoye dwells on public consultation.
In the town where I live, an environmental impact assessment was carried out on an experimental basis by joint agreement along exactly these lines.
The result was a procedure which made it possible to omit one stage from the normal process, thereby substantially reducing the firm's costs and removing the need for it to dispose of highly toxic waste.
What is more, no objections were lodged after the first procedure, and it was possible to bring forward the date originally set by the firm for the start of construction, because the administrative procedure was completed several months earlier than expected.
Public consultation was not a drawback; it accelerated the proceedings.
This is what must be borne in mind, I feel: sustainable development can only be achieved by working together with the public in a spirit of openness and transparency.
Whenever the public is given incomplete information, it leads to nothing but protests and delays, and that is precisely what we wish to avoid!
