Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget and the duration of the programme are far from satisfactory, and mention has already been made of the undemocratic character of the comitology which is proposed.
Unfortunately, the European Parliament lacks the means to make its will prevail against the Council.
There is no political will among the Member States to give people real access to the diverse cultural heritage that binds us together within the Community and beyond, and represents an important contribution to the cultural heritage of humanity.
The diversity of translation is a beginning, but the question should be much more broadly understood.
The primary production of books, the maintenance of archives and public libraries all have a part to play, and I should also like to mention three languages, or language groups, which should have a place here too: these are Plattdeutsch, Friesian and Wendish.
Writing, reading and books are rightly referred to in this context as the fundamental building blocks of an entire civilization.
I think it is a dangerous illusion to ignore the possibility that the transition to the age of information, with its new technologies for recording, disseminating and reproducing information, could result in the development of new forms of mass illiteracy.
The fact that most people can manage to understand instruction sheets and hit songs does not make the danger any less real.
Mrs Mouskouri's report hits the nail on the head as regards the Council decision on the Ariane programme, which is reminiscent of the trompe l'oeil technique in absolutist architecture: painting on windows where you could not afford real ones is just like making budget cuts on minor items, and at the same time undermining the function of those items by substantially extending the tasks for which they are earmarked and the range of potential applicants.
We regard this as a dubious practice, and one that demonstrates the real need for a change in cultural policy.
Nonetheless, it is a crumb of comfort - although we need a great deal more!
