Mr President, we are holding a joint debate on two reports from two different committees, because both deal with the rights of people suffering from disabilities, and for that reason this joint debate makes sense.
Incidentally, both reports were adopted unanimously in the committees concerned, and I should like to congratulate Mr Megahy and Mrs Banotti on their excellent work - both of them made inquiries of the disabled persons organizations when preparing their reports, got into contact with those organizations and incorporated the views and desires of those affected.
First, the report on the draft Council recommendation on a parking card for disabled persons, as it is entitled.
There is a German saying: ' If it takes long enough, it will be all right in the end.'
One cannot exactly apply that saying to these parking card recommendations.
As long ago as 1977, twenty years ago now, the transport ministers declared themselves in favour of reciprocal recognition of parking cards.
But they did nothing about it.
The disabled people in the European Union are having to carry the can for that, because in the absence of any European regulation their freedom of movement is enormously impaired.
Twenty years later, the Commission has tabled a recommendation that has no binding effect on the Member States.
Not only that, but the only concession refers to the respective national or regional parking concessions of the Member State in which the disabled person would like to park.
Not to put too fine a point on it, I would say that the whole thing is a load of eyewash.
Perhaps I should put it more politely and describe it as a beginning, an initial step in the right direction.
If the Commission takes account of Parliament's amendments, linking the issue of the parking card with the issue of a list of the individual states' regulations, not linking the card to one vehicle, deleting the holder's address and date of birth and having a photograph on the back instead, and also proposing to the Member States that the card be used in addition to the national one, the authorities will in due course become accustomed to the fact that we are all citizens of Europe and that equal rights of access must be allowed to everyone, everywhere.
Now for the Banotti report on the rights of disabled people.
The Committee on Petitions initiated this report because of numerous petitions received about the disregard of disabled people's rights.
Evidently, the 37 million disabled people in the European Union are subjected to direct or indirect discrimination in every area of their everyday lives.
This is just as obvious from the petitions as it is from the case studies provided by the disabled people's organizations.
Today, the German press offers us an example of a case where equal rights were denied: a child with Down's Syndrome was not allowed to attend ordinary school, and the parents took legal action.
The court's judgment was that the child was not entitled to attend normal school and should go to a special school, and that what the parents were asking would mean the reorganization of Bavaria's education laws, which was just not on!
I think that fits in admirably with today's debate.
We cannot adopt the attitude that it is a matter for the nation states to prevent discrimination - it is a matter for the nation states, but it is a matter for Europe, too.
The single market creates many problems for disabled people in Europe, problems that Mrs Banotti listed earlier, and my view is that the dialogue between the European institutions and the disabled people's organizations must be continued or encouraged, particularly with a view to protecting the disabled and enabling them to enjoy freedom of movement.
We call upon the Commission and the Council to come up with active measures, pilot projects, studies, statistics and programmes designed to enhance the living and working conditions of the disabled, appropriate means and forms of consultation for representative European and national non-disabled organizations, legal frameworks for education, employment, technology, products, services, standards and public commission systems that are fair to disabled people, and due consideration for the needs of the disabled in the information society, too.
We call for obstacles to freedom of movement, mobility and access to public buildings to be eliminated as quickly as possible and, as a central point, a non-discrimination clause in the Maastricht Treaty.
The basis of this policy must be codecision for those concerned and the human rights approach, as it is also represented in the UN standards.
Disabled people need neither charity nor sympathy - they need rights!
