Mr President, let me remind the House that this summit was intended to kick-start the floundering Intergovernmental Conference.
But, of course, you can rely on the Council to stick by its usual slogan: business as usual.
The way in which the summit was handled, too, followed a well-beaten path: if a summit seems likely to fail, or if nothing - absolutely nothing at all - emerges from it, there are two ways of glossing over this failure.
One is to set up a new Working Group to continue negotiations and celebrate that as a step forward, and the other is to make a lot of noise about things that everyone knew anyway.
Quite clearly, the second alternative has been selected in the case of Dublin.
But can the grimly determined confirmation of the timetable for Maastricht II really, seriously, be a success in view of all the speculation about Maastricht III?
Hans Christian Andersen wrote wonderful fairy tales, and I can't help but remember one of them as I listen to and look at Mr Santer and Mr Spring - ' The Emperor's New Clothes' .
The Emperor surrounds himself with admirers and flatterers until a child pipes up with the simple truth: ' He hasn't got anything on!'
That's the way things are today, that's the way the Council is: it's got nothing on.
It isn't working on any genuine initiatives for a consistent employment policy, for the desperately needed democratization of the European Union, for the foundations of a civil law system, for the development of Europe as a whole, for the process of conversion to social ecology.
Just how much does have to go wrong before the Council eventually grasps where its ignorance of public opinion is leading?
Aren't the results of the elections in Austria and Finland a sufficiently clear message?
The unconditional clinging to rigid, unrealistic criteria, the speculation with models of a centralized Europe, the attempt to dictate the shape of Europe from above instead of letting it grow from below - all this carries within it the real explosive of integration policy and generates Euro-scepticism instead of acceptance.
Anyone who fails to listen to the critics of the EU will give more power to the arm of Europe's opponents, will make them strong.
But who is going to give that message to the Council?
I believe that the Intergovernmental Conference should, first and foremost, be a major project to counter European absolutism, which brings me back once again to Hans Christian Andersen.
Let me just add a few personal words to Mr Spring as a Minister of the Irish government.
I should like to reaffirm this: I should like to say that our group is completely behind the peace process in Northern Ireland.
This has no direct connection with the so-called Dublin summit, but I wanted to say it anyway.
