Mr President, the rapporteur has given us a report which is the product of much hard work, a report which is necessary because the sums of money being sought for budget heading B7-5040 are far from being available to us.
The rapporteur has detailed why the money is necessary: for raising awareness, for initiatives that will serve as models, for grassroots groups, NGOs and associations, for sustainable economic activity and urban planning, to support local initiatives, to reduce climate damage, for the economy, maintaining biodiversity, and a great deal more.
However, what we have available under this budget heading is ECU 15 million over three years.
In my opinion, that is less than peanuts.
It is not merely a slap in the face, it is worse than ridiculous: it is shameful!
This is a hypocritical budget heading, given the environmental damage that we cause in our own countries.
When I read in the report that we are seeking to run a green economy - green in the sense of being sustainable - I have to ask myself what damage is being caused to the environment simply through the kind of economy, attitudes and policies which characterize the European Union.
I have no need to look as far afield as Mrs Günther did when she used China as an example.
You are right, of course, automobile production in China does damage the environment - but who are the producers?
I am German, and I know who they will be: Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen and Porsche.
It is the same logic that we are pursuing here with the trans-European networks.
The capital which is diverted for that purpose will come back to us, because we are deregulating markets and promoting throughout the world a type of economic reform that will allow us to continue with precisely this kind of production.
It was said in Rio that we intended to reduce the level of CO2 emissions from vehicles: so what is the situation now?
The situation is that none of what was promised in terms of reducing emissions has been achieved.
We know that these emissions are going to double by the year 2020.
And just think of the tremendous debts incurred when a nuclear power station in Manila is built in a rift valley, and then construction cannot continue because of earthquakes, yet the people have to bear the costs - they have to pay the costs of our industry.
How are they expected to do that with ECU 5 million?
If we wish to pursue a development policy, therefore, it is in these areas that we must begin.
We must begin with Shell in Nigeria, where the soil is contaminated, with the Community importers of rainforest products who are polluting drinking water, with energy production and vehicle production.
