Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have before us a joint motion for a resolution which, I believe, reflects our concern about the political and social situation in Belarus in a most comprehensible form.
Incidentally, if I may make a brief comment, the Greens are not in it.
They are not mentioned, but they were present during the discussions and endorse the motion for a resolution in its present form.
Belarus finds itself in a difficult economic, political and social situation.
The main cause lies in the absence of a credible reform policy.
In Belarus we have a president who does not understand the signs of the times, who wants to leads Belarus back into a structural conservatism that no longer exists and I hope will never again exist in that form, by government control of industry and banking, by intervening in the democratic constitutional system, by questioning national independence and by restricting freedom of opinion, freedom of the press and the rights of the unions.
We know that nearly all the forces in Belarus are in favour of the partnership and cooperation agreement and of the interim agreement with the European Union, with a view to obtaining a stable contractual framework for their economic activity and their general relations with the European Union.
We definitely welcome that and greatly regret that in the joint resolution we finally decided to request that for the time being Parliament does not welcome or sign the interim agreement but should call for a postponement.
For the rest, Belarus does not have to decide between Europe and Russia, as people keep saying.
But it must at last formulate a direct and open policy and it must make it clear what it wants.
We have bilateral agreements in many forms and we take that as a matter of course, but the wishes of the people must be respected.
The Socialist Group, as I pointed out, regrets the fact that we cannot agree to the interim agreement at the moment in its present form.
But we are very much in favour of it.
And we definitely welcome the fact that the government is prepared to recognize the importance of safeguarding the entire spectrum of human rights.
There are indications that it is doing so, but as I keep having to repeat, they are only indications and they are not clear enough.
We need more specific signs and we need clearer evidence that the Belarus Government does indeed want to establish a free and more democratic society.
At present there are indications that the referendum will be held on 24 November and we know that there were some conflicts beforehand.
Mr Lukashenko, the President of Belarus, pleaded for it to be held on 7 November.
We are very pleased to see these indications, but of course as they stand they are not sufficient and we would like to wait for the referendum in order to see clearer indications, simply so that the European Parliament can take a more definite decision, so that we can support the interim agreement and, at a later date, also the partnership and cooperation agreement.
