Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in an atmosphere more cooperative than that which existed before the first reading, I am extremely sorry that, despite our most intensive efforts, we did not achieve sufficient convergence of opinion in all areas to allow us a greater show of unity today.
As regards quotas, our view has not changed at all since the first reading.
We still believe that they are not an adequate means of bringing more European productions to our screens.
Stronger viewer demand for European productions and, above all, increased support for the sale of European productions would achieve better results than quotas.
At the present time, without quotas, many countries in Europe already devote more than 60 % of screen time to European productions.
We made an honest effort to reach a compromise on Article 1 of the directive - on extending the concept of broadcasting to cover the new services - partly because the Commission had told us in the meantime that the promised green paper on the new services would not appear.
I regarded Amendments Nos 12 and 46 on Article 1 as workable.
However, such was the outcry in media circles, from the press to television, that I was forced to conclude that the professionals had discovered pitfalls which I had overlooked.
Personally, I remain convinced that the compromise which was reached puts no obstacles in the way of dynamic economic expansion of the new services in Europe, since it must be seen in conjunction with Amendment No 46, setting out the exceptions.
With regard to sport, I believe that we in Parliament must take pains to see that exclusive broadcasting rights do not create a situation in which large sections of the population are excluded from major sporting events.
The amendment in question, No 20, is directed not only at the purchasers - the television providers - but also at the sports organizations, who must be at least as interested in their spectators as we are in our electorate.
It is the same kind of dependent relationship.
Amendment No 48 was simply intended to clarify what is meant in Amendment No 20 by inserting the word 'sports' before the mention of what are termed particularly important events.
Someone who is very ill-disposed towards me has completely distorted Amendment No 48.
For that reason, I have to withdraw it, but I would ask everyone to agree that we can, orally at least, add the word 'sports' to Amendment No 20.
I hope the House will agree to that.
