Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, in terms of the Community's structural policies, the Commission is attaching great importance to 1997.
It is doing so, firstly, because a mid-term review of the Objective I programmes will be carried out next year and, secondly, because an adjustment of these policies will be proposed as part of the programme planning for the Objective II areas for the new period 1997 to 1999.
We hope that, in the process, the wide variety of regional experiences gained with the Structural Funds will be utilized and disseminated.
These experiences are both positive and negative - for example, with regard to the disbursement of funds, because the delays in this respect, whether caused on the ground or by the Commission, are very difficult to explain to the various beneficiaries.
But the regions also have experiences regarding efficiency in general.
This relates to both the substance of the development programmes and the streamlining and simplification of procedures and administrative methods.
However, an important element is missing from the Commission's work programme, namely the announcement of a report in 1999 on the forthcoming revision of the Structural Funds during the next planning period from 2000 to 2005, although the debate on this is currently well under way.
Associations, organizations and a number of regions have already adopted a position.
In 1997, Mr Santer, we are hoping - alongside the Commission's usual oral statements - for some suitably clear indications of your institution's thinking.
In my view, the present cohesion report only hints at - and can only hint at - meeting this requirement.
Consideration must be given to the future of the Structural Funds, in good time and without ideological restrictions.
The manner in which the European Parliament participates in this process must be different, in other words more effective than was the case for the previous period, so as to ensure that the Structural Funds do not, for reasons of time, once again have to be rushed through, as occurred in 1993.
Indeed, the evaluation of the programmes and the establishment of the allocation criteria are important tasks - not least of Parliament and in particular its Committee on Regional Policy.
After all, this area accounts for no less than one third of the total Community budget.
I would urge you to include this important point in your work programme for 1997, Mr President of the Commission, so that your thinking can be discussed and thereby influence the joint decision-making in good time.
