Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in spite of some setbacks tourism is still a growth sector of the economy.
If the forecasts are correct, tourism will become the most important economic activity worldwide in a few years' time, ahead even of heavy industry or the motor industry.
At the present time, more than 9 million people are directly employed in this sector, and the numbers are rising.
The fact that the vast majority of firms involved are SMEs does, of course, create major problems.
On the other hand, the variety of firms involved guarantees the individualism that is particularly necessary in tourism.
Of the 1.2 million tourist firms, 95 % are very small with fewer than 9 employees.
It is this individualism and the regional differences and special features that we must strongly support.
Only then can the consumers be offered a wide spectrum of choices.
And only then can the individual regions emphasize their own special features in a context of fair competition.
We should therefore give special support to tourism as a sector in which great hopes can be placed.
I am thinking in particular of assistance for the small and medium-sized enterprises I mentioned earlier, of targeted tax measures to support the tourist infrastructure, of provision of the appropriate regional aid, and so forth.
But most particularly I am thinking of the need to improve the quality of European tourism; in order to do so it is quite vital to improve the training level in this sector.
Adequate knowledge of this sector with its manifold differences is most important if effective measures are to be introduced.
PHILOXENIA follows the right direction, especially in the fields of information and coordination.
Europe's great power of attraction resides in its cultural, geographical, historical and ethnic variety.
The consumer wants to continue being able to choose among the widest range of offers.
Let me therefore emphatically repeat the call for tourism to be incorporated in the EU Treaty.
