Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, really I can only confirm that, which is why I am also cutting my speech by half.
So many right and good things have been said that it would be wrong to repeat them all over again.
I believe the main point is not just that all the Member States of the EU should sign the IMO rules but that they are also applied uniformly.
That is the decisive point if we want to protect the people, to protect the environment and also - and I believe my Danish colleague agrees with me - to create equal conditions of competition in every part of the Community.
It also meets the wishes of the industry.
That is why the report by Mr Kaklamanis is a very good report and that is why I will confine myself to Amendment No 1.
In my humble opinion the justification for amendment is sightly unfortunate.
The reason we ask for the sentence 'This paragraph shall not apply to radiocommunications equipment' to be deleted is not in order to exclude the testing of radiocommunications equipment from this directive.
It is quite clear from the annexes that the radio equipment must also undergo the necessary tests.
Much more to the point is that we do not want to have several procedures side by side but a uniform, sensible testing procedure which will help us avoid bureaucracy and therefore provide a fair procedure both for the equipment makers and for the shipping companies.
Regardless of its justification I therefore hope that you, Commissioner, will approve Amendment No 1 for the right reasons, of which I am sure you are aware.
I do not want the same to happen as unfortunately occurred in the case of overland transport services when we worked very hard in this House to draft sensible amendments that the Commission could support and then the Commission did not put a single one of our amendments before the Council.
Oh yes, it did put one, but a minor one.
So I hope, Commissioner, that you will approve the three modest but clear amendments and will also support them before the Council.
Amendment No 1 in particular is designed to simplify, to standardize and to help create sensible framework conditions for the equipment makers and the shipping companies.
I wonder whether you will follow the House this time.
