Mr President, ' Towards sustainability' is both the title of the programme and its objective.
The scrutiny which the House has to perform today is certainly no easy task, since the rapporteur, Mrs Dybkjær, has transformed the Commission's rather insubstantial communication into an extensive report.
The report is of course an extensive one not least because of the numerous amendments, and my group supports the negotiated withdrawal of some of these, so that the programme which we adopt can serve its intended purpose: a revision, a process of taking stock, providing an overview of the extent to which the objectives are realistic and have been achieved, and of what still needs to be done to reach the goal of sustainable environmental development in the Union.
We know that we are a long way from achieving these objectives, as the European Environment Agency has confirmed.
Not only will major efforts be required, but also a very specific timetable, which must be practicable and verifiable.
I should like to comment on three areas which are of particular concern to me.
First of all, it is especially important, in my opinion, for us to pay heed to the international commitments and agreements entered into by the European Union in the field of sustainable development.
I am not only thinking here of the Rio follow-up process, Agenda 21, a European strategy for biodiversity and measures to reduce CO2 emissions; what is even more important, in my view, is our participation in the Environment for Europe process, since it involves countries which have applied for admission to our Community, and towards which we already have certain responsibilities.
I also feel it is very important that the Community's environmental standards should be raised to the level of those in the three new Member States, so as to introduce better environmental standards throughout the Community, for the benefit of all our citizens.
It is also extremely necessary and important to examine the extent to which existing Community policies ensure sustainable development.
A good deal has already been said on this point, but a brief list would include the policies on chemicals, energy, waste management, transport, tourism and above all, of course, agriculture.
We have tabled amendments dealing in greater detail with how the budget can be adapted to take more account of environmental concerns, and what is to be made of 'green accounting' .
Most important of all, without a doubt, is the protection of human health, because only if this is protected will we have a future at all.
Finally, forward-looking Community policies which respect the environment and create jobs must be promoted, because only by setting ambitious environmental objectives for the future will we be able to develop our economy in a way that secures a future for Europe.
