Mr President, to the extent that the Dublin Summit dealt with the areas of the third pillar - combating organized crime and drug trafficking - it has become clear that this is a case where the gap between what the public expect and what has actually been achieved is growing wider and wider.
So far, if I may say so, our respective Council members have advanced with the utmost caution and suspicion in this area, pausing to pick the occasional daisy but with no sign of any willingness to press forward resolutely.
The explanation, so we hear, is that no real progress can be made until after the British elections.
That explanation is an illusion.
What is preventing any progress in the combating of organized crime in Europe is not the British elections but the lack of will to find a joint solution to such problems - a lack of will not just in the United Kingdom but in other countries, too.
And we hear it said that a joint solution would be a breach of national sovereignty.
That is a fetish from the nineteenth century, which a few governments carry around with them like some pagan image.
The real meaning of sovereignty is the expression of national independence.
It ensures the fulfilment of national interests.
Today, national sovereignty is abused as a pretext for preventing the joint solving of important problems.
That was never the point of national sovereignty.
This misinterpretation of national sovereignty is directed against the public interest rather than fighting for it.
Organized crime, the control of immigration and population increase in Europe - these are problems which, today, can only be solved by a joint approach.
It is not true that the elimination of the internal borders made cross-border organized crime in Europe possible in the first place.
The truth is that the disappearance of those borders is a consequence of present-day mobility, because the stagecoach has given way to the jet aircraft.
Modern policy has to come up with answers to this.
And they can only be European, Europe-wide answers.
The Council must finally make up its mind to find answers to these problems.
