Mr President, Commissioner, employment policy and social security go hand in hand.
It is thus logical for us to hold a joint debate on the 1996 employment report and on the amendment to the European Union's most important social insurance legislation - Regulation 1408.
High levels of unemployment jeopardize our social systems.
There is no shortcut to combatting unemployment - the only way is by the countless short steps proposed in the White Paper on employment and in many other European Union documents on the confidence pact, for example flexible work organization, positive flexibility of working hours and part-time working.
This is certainly not confined to dividing up the day, but also includes dividing up one's working life: older employees are given the opportunity of a progressive transition to retirement.
In Germany, pre-retirement benefits are paid on the basis of a law on part-time working for older employees.
If the employer tops up the remuneration for part-time working and the pension insurance contributions, the Federal Institute for Labour reimburses the employer for these benefits if he takes on an unemployed person or trainee.
Regulation 1408, which I mentioned earlier, is intended to coordinate the statutory social security systems for workers who move from one state to another.
This coordination has not hitherto included the harmonization of the widely differing pre-retirement arrangements that have been introduced in seven EU States.
The Ribeiro report provides a very good description of the problems that have arisen as a result of this and as a result of the increasing number of systems, especially if the employee's job and place of residence are in different countries, as with frontier workers, or if the worker moves his place of residence to another Member State, as when he returns to his home country.
The intention of the Commission's draft to extend the scope of Regulation 1408 to pre-retirement benefits is obligatory, and collectively agreed arrangements are also to be included.
The Commission has proposed sensible solutions, such as for example the right to export the benefit from the country of last employment, in which the entitlement was acquired.
The controversial provision of benefit by the labour authority in the country of residence would cause serious problems for EU States that have not introduced the preretirement status.
In Amendment No 1 and in the explanatory statement, the rapporteur goes beyond the problems of preretirement to suggest prospects for the coordination of the special civil service systems and non-statutory social security systems, though I am convinced that excessively detailed European regulations would be counter-productive here.
The Ribeiro report makes an important contribution to planning the social dimension of the Union, and the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of it.
