Mr President, Commissioner, it is thanks to the European Parliament and its Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection that we have the opportunity today to discuss a European Community water policy.
We realized a long time ago that water policy in Europe is a rather hit-and-miss affair, and there is no point in continuing to draw up reports on groundwater, surface water or bathing water if we do not have at least a basic water policy at Union level.
Europe currently has some 30 to 40 different directives on water, yet there is not a single workman or indeed a civil servant in the European or national institutions who knows which directive covers what, or which one he needs to follow.
It was for this reason that Parliament organized a highly successful hearing on water policy last year, at which everyone agreed that we need some kind of framework programme to form the basis of our future water policy.
The Commission has now issued a communication on water policy which I personally find extremely weak.
This is not just the fault of DG XI, it is also influenced by the Council, which currently seems incapable of summoning up the courage or strength to establish proper European targets for protection of the environment.
The Commission communication is still based on the old approach which was already a failure 21 years ago.
If you look at the 1976 water directive, it aimed to fix parameters for over 100 separate harmful substances, and in the 21 years since then, we have managed only 18.
This is not the right way to set about a European water policy, and we need to change it.
What we would like to have instead is a combined approach involving parallel quality objectives and emission standards, framed within the overall concept of prevention and environmental protection.
Prevention policy is enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty as an integral part of environmental protection, and this is why I think the Commission's approach of making the Member States responsible for setting targets, parameters and figures is entirely wrong.
I am in favour of setting common objectives, while at the same time allowing the Member States to adopt different methods and possibly also different deadlines for meeting those objectives, depending on their capabilities.
This combined approach of emission standards and quality objectives is the only way of making proper provision for prevention, as required under the Maastricht Treaty.
This also makes sense both ecologically and economically, since there is no point in allowing our industries to pour effluent into a river and then sitting down together to discuss how we can clean it up again.
We all know that water does not recognize borders, and the Rhine takes no time at all to get from Basle to the Netherlands.
This is why we need to consider preventive measures as a way of cleaning up our rivers.
I understand that this approach has found favour with you, Mrs Bjerregaard.
We did things a little differently this time: having initially called for an action programme, we reached a sort of agreement with the Commission that you would provide a written assurance that you will include this new combined approach of emission standards and quality objectives in the framework directive to be drafted over the next few months.
We are delighted that you are prepared to do so, since these are the very building-blocks on which our water policy needs to be based.
We would remind you that you yourself proposed this to the committee, and that you yourself said that you wanted to develop a practical framework directive which includes emission standards and quality objectives.
This automatically means that the directive on the ecological quality of water cannot be seen as a framework directive.
This new Community approach is a good way to begin rectifying the current weaknesses in our environment policy.
We know that you support the paper you forwarded to us, and we hope that the other Commissioners will continue to support you on this issue.
We will be doing everything we can to ensure that Europe gets a forward-looking water policy.
