Mr President, Commissioner, on 13 May the European Council adopted an action programme for Russia.
The purpose of that programme was, in the run-up to the Russian presidential elections, to reaffirm the importance of a real, genuine partnership between the European Union and Russia and at the same time to keep open the prospect of further reforms.
In recent weeks it has once again been made clear that this partnership is of great importance in ensuring security and stability throughout the continent of Europe.
The power struggles within the Kremlin, focusing in particular on the position of security adviser to the Russian President, in recent days have created uncertainty throughout the European Union, and especially in the States associated with it.
We are very glad that this job has now gone to Mr Rybkin, the former President of the Duma, because we hope that that previous experience will enable him to reinforce and restructure the process of dialogue with the European Union institutions.
But the internal stability of Russia is important to us not just because Russia is our immediate neighbour: it is also important because it offers the only hope of solving the serious economic problems of that country.
The successful introduction of new systems and the economic reconstruction of Russia would make the Republic a reliable partner for us.
The war in Chechnya is a heavy burden in itself, and especially on the Russian budget.
We hope that the peace negotiated by General Lebed will be preserved in the future and that a new start can be made on reconstruction in that region.
Further to this, absolute priority must be given to the economic reforms.
Recent reports received by us suggest that 75 % of the Russian population are living below the poverty line, and that millions of Russian workers have already been waiting months for their wages to be paid; this social disaster could be another contributory factor to uncertainty and instability in Russia.
The action programme before us today can help to ensure that the European Union helps Russia to overcome its problems and further the process of reform.
But that will not be enough - additional, radical measures are needed.
We hope that the Council and Commission, together with Parliament, will prepare a further programme of measures, into which previously existing instruments must be integrated at once.
We hope that we will be able to continue discussions on this during the drafting of Mrs Lalumière's forthcoming report in the Foreign Affairs Committee.
In my view, the partnership agreement remains the central element in the West's strategy for partnership with Russia.
Both sides are going to have to continue making great efforts to breathe life into that agreement.
I hope that we in the European Union will be able to make our contribution to those efforts.
