Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the language of the audiovisual media is still - and will increasingly be - the first language of mass communication, entertainment and understanding: levels of active and passive participation will continue to increase because, for very many people, the audiovisual media constitute the arena for deciding whether they are to be winners or losers.
At the same time, however, the audiovisual media are suffering a fate similar to the enclosure of the medieval commons: language and expression are being reduced to market commodities, instead of being understood as the objects of a continuing public duty - a duty of care and custody, renewal and creation.
Likewise, innovation and creativity are not mere by-products of the competitive market, and that is why we need the resources to offer them public support.
The Guarantee Fund is one important element.
However, we should never forget that it is equally important to strengthen public-service production and distribution.
Nor should we fall into the trap of seeking a European answer to the abstraction that is Disney culture.
We need genuine diversity, including the capacity to enter into dialogue with others; we need genuinely panEuropean initiatives in which there will also be a place for smaller countries and language areas, which are part of our rich heritage.
We need a political logic that will counter the unquestioning acceptance of the WTO logic on a world scale.
We need this report - and I thank Mrs Guinebertière for it - but we must also realize, given the increasingly capitalintensive nature of this particular field, that the alliance of European film-makers, which first mooted this project, was certainly unrealistic in thinking that the money would be enough for some 17 years, without the addition of further resources.
We must also be clear that the figure of two to three million potential jobs - which has been used in arguing the case - is, unfortunately, not a realistic one, given the rationalization that is taking place in the audiovisual media as a result of new technologies and organizational concepts.
It is all the more important to activate this political catalyst, and to draw on the political will of the Member States to ensure that it actually works.
To recap, therefore: we shall support the motion, but we should be under no illusions - we have not yet achieved the decisive breakthrough.
