Mr President, officially this is an oral question to the Council.
But Commission representatives are present and I would like to go into the matter in a little more depth.
Let me repeat what we all know.
On 26 April 1994 we had the result of co-decision between Parliament and the Council.
This was the first co-decision act since Maastricht and at the time the two institutions were quite happy with the procedure.
The Council and the European Parliament, and let me stress this fact, the Council too, were satisfied with the result at the time.
Barely two and a half years have passed since then, and although the refinancing should have occurred before 30 June, we find ourselves in a desert.
I cannot think of any other term to describe it.
The Research Council has not taken any decision, it is waiting for Ecofin.
Ecofin has asked the Commission to present a new proposal.
Well, I really do ask myself whether the European institutions have become unable to act.
What are we as Parliament doing?
The Linkohr report concerns a Commission proposal that not only calls for an increase in funding but - and I say this plainly to the Commission - is also an entirely new version in terms of content.
After the Linkohr report I heard that the Commission had somehow or other produced a new proposal that was not, however, any different from the first one, although our colleague's report was different from the Commission proposal.
So why are we actually here and why are we working?
Second question.
In the light of our responsibility for the difficult financial situation in the Member States - even my own country, Germany, is not doing particularly well financially - we as Parliament are proposing a reserve of ECU 100 million with the prospect, as you have just heard, of maintaining this increase over the next two years too.
We have received no response to this proposal, which is a quite genuine proposal.
So I want to ask why not?
During this period - and I am coming back to the Commission now - the Commission has been working away on a fifth framework programme, but why in fact?
It evidently seems unable to bring the middle of this fourth framework programme to a conclusion.
What is actually happening with research now?
What can the researchers expect now?
What can the SMEs expect of this Commission now?
In short, we are in a right mess, that is all I can say!
Mr President-in-Office, can you actually give us and the citizens of Europe a plausible answer to this question: why are you prepared to put so much money into maintaining the existing and in part obsolete structures and so little into the only thing that protects jobs, namely research and development and strengthening the innovative power of the SMEs?
I regard that as in total contradiction to the declared aim of President Santer, which was to reduce unemployment in the European Union.
You can all see how difficult that is from the efforts the Member States are making at national level and from the fairly meagre results.
Here again I do not exclude my own country.
For the rest, I have to say this: as far as I remember, you were not there on 8 October, Mr President!
That you or one of your representatives went to the Socialist Group last week is not officially known to the European Parliament.
Mr President, you are a minister and enough of a politician to know that has something to do with party politics!
We still exist too!
