Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, four years ago - at the Environment Summit in Rio - the world's political leaders, with Germany's Chancellor Kohl playing a prominent part, promised that they would finally take action and no longer shut their eyes to global dangers such as the hole in the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect and climatic change.
Two years ago, when the WTO was founded in Geneva, only the preamble still contained any reference to sustainable development.
At the point where the WTO Statute moves on to specifics it is solely concerned with imposing free trade and growth ideology.
Now, at the ministerial meeting in Singapore, the WTO Committee on Trade and the Environment is to present its first report.
Unfortunately, there is nothing whatever to suggest at present that the growth of world trade is really taking place on a sustainable basis - in other words, an environmentally compatible and socially balanced basis.
Worse still, even the call for a viable world economic structure is being heard increasingly rarely in public.
Two weeks ago, for example, the Council, headed by Helmut Kohl, resolved not to set up a WTO working group for social standards in Singapore.
If the European Governments show a similar level of commitment to environmental protection, there is reason to fear that Singapore may be an ecological Waterloo.
Today, most European governments believe in free trade the way children believe in Father Christmas.
They voluntarily relinquish their democratic rights and leave the economy at the mercy of the big transnational corporations.
They portray globalization as an inevitability, making no mention of their own leading part in setting up the WTO.
The creation of the WTO wasted a great opportunity to lay down social and ecological rules for world trade.
Now it has become all the more difficult to reform and extend the WTO, but in any case the Council is probably not yet prepared to do so.
We in the European Parliament must today call upon the Commission and Member States of the Union to take action at last and fight in our interests in Singapore.
The Green Group in the European Parliament this week called upon the Environment Commissioner, Mrs Bjerregaard, to do her homework or resign.
In virtually all problem areas, the Commission will fail to achieve its own reduction targets by the year 2000.
So the Commission falls far short of serving as a role model in environmental matters.
As far as its role within the WTO is concerned, it has at least - I am delighted to say - published a comprehensive paper on trade and the environment.
Even though we cannot agree with a number of the Commission's assessments and proposals, the document did show that the Commission's heart, and especially that of Sir Leon Brittan's Directorate-General, is in the right place.
Unfortunately, even the Commission's proposals have been received with great reluctance by the Council.
So the obstacles to a socially and ecologically acceptable form of world trade are being created not only in Brussels but, even more so, in the capital cities of the Member States.
This makes it all the more important that we in the European Parliament should make a comprehensive ecological reform of the WTO a priority of the Singapore meeting.
My report, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on External Economical Affairs, contains, for example, a call for environmental experts to be involved in WTO panel proceedings.
Article 20 of the GATT must be extensively revised to enable more pressure to be brought to bear in favour of ecological production.
In calling for bans on imports, our aim is not to obstruct imports from the Third World but to provide additional aid to the developing countries through new financial resources, technology transfer and additional quotas and the easing of customs duties for all products of fair trade.
Import bans, though, should be a last line of defence.
Global environmental protection can be achieved only by a multilateral procedure, and we therefore call for all multilateral environmental agreements to be preserved unconditionally.
As we have seen from the example of the recent exports of toxic wastes, stricter monitoring of these agreements is a matter of urgency.
We are entirely in favour of the use and further development of instruments of selfregulation, a code of conduct for transnational concerns or an ecolabel.
Of course, an ecolabel only achieves anything if it is regarded as a reward, a prize for top-quality ecological products, and is independently supervised.
The main purpose of reforming the WTO along social and ecological lines is to subject it to democratic control.
Transparency and the involvement of NGOs, unions and consumer associations have hitherto been totally inadequate or, indeed, non-existent.
Should the WTO prove incapable of reform, should it become no more receptive of social and ecological interests, consideration must be given to creating a new structure for world trade within the framework of the UN.
The EU is the world's greatest trading power.
It must throw its full weight into the scales to ensure that such a reform is successfully carried through.
There are a few sharp operators in this House, though, who still believe that world trade takes precedence over the environment.
To them I say, anyone who destroys the environment will finish up with nothing left to trade in!
