Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let us remember that the Council's sudden notion about this action plan for Russia could not conceal the fact that it amounted to an attempt to boost Yeltsin's election campaign.
Nor, of course, the fact that it was yet another attempt to persuade the world, and especially the USA, that a common European Union foreign policy is not just hot air.
But, apart from the fact that any such action plan for the Russian Federation supports the dominant role of the Russians within the CIS, and apart from the danger that this may be misunderstood as supporting their claims for hegemony, this action plan really is nothing more than hot air.
It contains nothing that had not in any case previously been included in the partnership and cooperation agreements, the interim agreement, the TACIS Regulation and other forms of economic aid.
But, of course, it is true that Russia does need extensive support with the process of democratic and economic reform and with coping with the disastrous destruction of the environment within Russia.
What Russia needs most of all is an open Europe, willing to plan a joint security structure instead of adopting senseless decisions, such as the expansion of NATO and the drawing of new frontiers by means of the Schengen agreements, which in reality have the effect of partitioning Europe and furthering confrontation.
This, however, cannot excuse the inactivity of the Western Europeans when political intervention was urgently needed, as in the case of Chechnya, where massive violations of international human rights took place.
I need only recall our more than shameful silence on the crime of the war in Chechnya after it became known that Russia had used a new weapon of mass destruction - the vacuum bomb - against its own civilian population.
I expect the Commission's statement to provide specific answers.
I want to know what really has been done in the last six months to further the cause of democratic evolution in Russia.
To this extent, the action plan is a very welcome project, but there are still unanswered questions, one of which is what representations the Commission has made to the Russian government regarding Alexander Nikitin.
The Commission is already taking advantage of the excellent results of the Bellona report to prepare urgently needed TACIS programmes.
I know from my visit to Murmansk that the aid programmes are producing results there.
But Alexander Nikitin is still being held in an FSB jail; I was not even able to visit him.
Indeed, he is being tried for espionage, though he has done a genuinely valuable service for his country and has supplied the essential information for the work we are doing.
He has been charged under a secret decree with having betrayed his country.
I consider it urgently necessary for the Commission to say, in highly specific terms, when and where it is taking action and what means it is using to bring pressure to bear.
