Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it was very encouraging to see the PPE Group agreeing on 29 October that television on demand should fall within the scope of the directive.
Mr Hoppenstedt's comments this morning were therefore all the more regrettable.
That is why I should like to remind you once again that it is clear in the amendment that the intention is not to include every possible new service, that electronic publications are explicitly excluded, and that a number of provisions of the broadcasting directive, such as the rule on quotas for example, will not be applied to television on demand.
The argument that the development of new services could be jeopardized by the inclusion of television on demand is no longer tenable.
I should be curious to meet a supplier of television on demand who is deferring his investment because his output is to be subject to the same conditions for the protection of minors that apply to traditional television.
I do not know of any.
In taking our decision today, we must also consider the political context.
The Commission has not kept its promise to bring forward a set of rules parallel to those in the broadcasting directive in its green paper on new audiovisual services.
In fact, the slimmed-down green paper on new services and the protection of minors explicitly states that legislation is to be postponed indefinitely.
I would say this to the rapporteurs: anyone calling for technical devices to filter programmes on traditional television, but failing to lay down legally enforceable conditions for the protection of minors in relation to television on demand, must begin by explaining that contradiction.
Today, Commission money is still being used to finance studies which conclude that we shall end up with the total commercialization of the entire television sector, but which also quite clearly provide backing for our contention that the transmission method does not matter, and all that is to be provided is a kind of electronic poorhouse for the less well-off.
I believe that the broadcasting directive is our only hope of regulating television on demand, and today could be our last chance of doing this.
