Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all let me give very warm thanks to the rapporteur.
On the Hyland report I may say the following: the development of rural areas is only possible, in my view, if we have a competitive agriculture.
That is true EU-wide.
The rural areas must not degenerate into a museum of folklore.
When future developments are discussed in Cork in Ireland in early November it will have to be established from the outset that rural areas are not just of residual value.
In Germany 80 % of the entire country is rural.
Half of all the inhabitants live in rural areas, but only 20 % of them can find jobs there; all the others are commuters.
The figures are very similar in all the EU countries.
Rural areas tend to be regarded as an important functional and services resource for over-strained urban centres.
Such a view does not, however, form an adequate basis for a programme of rural development and does not generally help stabilize rural employment markets.
There is no getting away from the fact that the remote rural areas in the EU are deprived areas in terms of employment.
In times of shortage of funds, little can be done to change this through the classical form of regional policy.
Doubts have also been expressed as to its effectiveness.
For the remote rural areas it is therefore urgently necessary to consider alternative ways of providing real prospects for people with little chance of gaining a foothold on the standardized labour market in the medium and long term.
To place ones hopes solely in Commission Green and White Papers is, in my view, not enough.
We have enough papers in Europe.
Some hope can, however, be derived from the new accent placed on the concept of independent regional development, which has meanwhile also found its way into European policy-making.
The development concept of independent regional development is aimed at protecting employment in rural areas on the basis of own initiatives.
Its objective is to integrate people in the world of work and to improve their chances of obtaining their own income independently of state transfers.
State aids can only serve as start-up finance!
That is why the aim of independent regional development remains to identify fields of activity by the creative use of local resources.
This should produce an employment market that is predominantly regionally based and draws on knowledge of the situation of the people, the land and the region.
Unconventional small-scale initiatives and small projects can be particularly useful here; I think that new technology also offers new opportunities for rural areas.
The crucial question is this: what specifically regional demand actually exists, what specific fields of activity can be established in rural areas, how can these fields of activity be commercialized?
The entrepreneurial principle should continue to apply wherever possible.
