Mr President, I too realise that we are dealing here with a very important market - involving many jobs, large revenue, good business - and do you know why that is so?
It is because until now we have left this sector out of our organizations of the market!
And now we get proposals to regulate it, even from Liberals!
Mr Mulder, I am most surprised to hear you now call for subsidies to be introduced in this prosperous market even though everybody says we have to dismantle subsidies!
The difficulty of this market is surely the fact that it has functioned so well; that is why so many producers entered it, and now there are marketing problems.
Now public funds are to go into a market and a business that is doing so well in the form of promotional activities so that, as is written here, people will buy flowers throughout the year, not just occasionally, but all the year round.
If that is what is wanted, then this industry should do it itself, this market should regulate it itself!
If we begin to do so, we will be opening the door not just to financing promotional activities but also, as Mr Santini said, to subsidizing and supporting exports; for that is the next step.
Then the gentleman from Madeira comes along and says: since we are so peripheral, I would like some of these funds too because we are doing so badly!
But you have better conditions for growing flowers than anywhere else!
After all the Netherlands have to use a great deal of oil and energy, whereas in Madeira they grow by themselves.
But of course, the fact of being peripheral once again justifies receiving subsidies.
What we are embarking on here is a race to obtain public funds, and the next stages are quite predictable.
And I must say again, Mr Mulder, that I am very surprised that you as a Liberal actually want to smear this flourishing market!
A further consideration: we have agreements on minimum import costs, for instance with Israel; otherwise duties are levied.
Of course that could also be done with third countries and would be a sensible measure.
But surely one should not intervene in a flourishing market by imposing an organization of the market on it!
We can discuss other measures, but we cannot endorse this report as it stands!
I may be the only person to speak against it here, but really it seems total nonsense for you all to head in the wrong direction!
