Mr President, as neighbours of Slovenia who, from the beginning, have followed and supported that country's struggle for independence with much sympathy and active involvement, we Austrians naturally have an interest in bringing Slovenia into the EU.
But assistance and sympathy cannot be unilateral.
So we as free democrats cannot understand why Slovenia is today unwilling to revoke the decrees of the Yugoslavian partisan government of Jajce and declare them invalid, as Croatia long since did - those decrees that have brought so much harm and injustice, death and misery to the German-speaking former Austrians in that country.
Not only that, but for some obscure reason Slovenia is still unwilling to grant an equitable minority status to these German-speaking people or those in the Gottschee area.
I must emphatically contradict the previous speaker on this point.
This step has already been taken long ago with other minority groups, such as the Hungarians.
Furthermore, we have justified and still unresolved misgivings about the safety shortcomings of the Krsko atomic power station, which posed a genuine threat to the area around the Austrian border, especially during the struggle for independence.
Again, we have justified fears that insufficient consideration has been given to the moves towards closer economic ties which are laid down in the agreement, and in some cases take place automatically, or to free movement in the labour market - including family members...
(The President interrupted the speaker) ... that comes about because the smaller groups are given so little speaking time.
So, to repeat: we have justifiable misgivings in the economic sector and regarding freedom of movement in the labour market.
All of these are problems which have to be overcome primarily by Austria, and to some extent by Italy too.
It is easy enough for the other States to go ahead cheerfully with adopting resolutions - they don't have to bear the consequences.
That is partly why the Land Government of Carinthia expressed its misgivings about the agreement on 9 October this year.
Finally, we note the absence of any sign of goodwill by the Slovenians towards their neighbours regarding some form of accommodation over the dumping policy practised by the Slovenian duty-free shops, which has such disastrous effects on small traders in the border region.
So we cannot vote for the agreement as it stands.
