Madam President, the number one problem of economic and social policy facing the Member States of the European Union and the Community is unemployment.
Unemployment is a challenge, too, to the Union as such.
The trans-European networks must be created, though this is difficult to achieve at present.
That leaves the employment policy options which were also recommended at the Essen Council in 1994: joint focal points with employment policy activities and appropriate multiannual programmes by the EU States.
The informal ad hoc Working Party on 'Follow-up to the European Council in Essen' , which was established around the beginning of 1995, was supposed to nurture an exchange of information and experience between the Member States and to review the application of the programmes in question.
The present document finds that an informal group is actually insufficient to deal with the matter efficiently.
The proposed employment and labour market policy committee would form a more stable framework.
Since 1974 there has been a Standing Committee on Economic Policy, working towards the Ecofin Council.
A comparable committee for the Council of Labour and Social Ministers is needed, because although unemployment is an economic problem it is also a major social one.
In Mr Theonas' valuable report, the view is expressed that the Commission should be involved to an appropriate extent in the committee's work and that Parliament should be consulted.
A Standing Committee on Employment and Labour Market Policy can make an important contribution to the coordinated implementation, nationally and between the social partners, of the priorities adopted in Essen.
Those priorities are action to assist problem groups in the labour market, young people and women, reducing ancillary wage costs, a modern wages policy and investments in the vocational training sector.
What we want is not just economic upturn but its conversion into a sustainable process of growth which creates new jobs.
For this reason, the PPE group will be voting in favour of the Theonas report.
