Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as competition intensifies and, at the same time, young people perceive that they have less and less chance of sharing in society's prosperity, they try to escape from the pressures which they face as individuals by taking drugs.
Drugs become a comfort and a means of escape from reality.
The Irish presidency has made drugs policy in the EU a priority.
I welcome the action programme and the specific recommendations.
Increasingly, what we are seeing, as opposed to heroin users, are people with multiple drug addictions.
This means that different kinds of help must be provided for them.
But it also means that cooperation between everyone involved in caring for drug addicts is essential.
It is also important to provide comprehensive information, particularly in our schools.
Dialogue with children at risk, and their parents - especially as early as the pre-school years - is a very important aspect of prevention.
Drug abuse, drug dealing and the associated crime to which it leads have a destructive effect on society.
The European Union must therefore continue to concern itself with combating these problems.
There must be room for an open debate on drugs as part of federal and national politics, without any taboos.
We must encourage the harmonization of legislation in the Member States.
The Dutch presidency is facing intense pressure from many EU countries, and I hope that the Netherlands, with its policy of tolerance, will be prepared to endorse more stringent interpretations in the area of drugs policy.
As a practising pharmacist, I oppose any attempt to make hashish available over the chemist's counter.
To do so would be to put drugs on a par with medicinal products, and I believe that would be extremely dangerous.
As far as I am concerned, there can be no question about the illegality of drugs.
The primary concern of any drugs policy must be to help those who are addicted - to offer therapy.
But prevention, using new methods and approaches, is and remains our first task.
This makes demands on all those who hold positions of responsibility in society, especially in the areas of education and child care.
Living out an example is the most effective method of prevention.
