Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, consumers have a right to information about the use of genetically modified organisms in their food.
We should demand that those who produce and market food should provide comprehensive labelling.
The authorization of genetically modified foodstuffs must only be granted when very stringent scientific criteria have been met.
Genetic engineering is also a science of the future, and it is estimated that approximately 8 % of new future job opportunities could be created by this technology.
In medicine, for example in the production of insulin, this technology has been recognized for a long time.
It is now possible to save thousands of human lives using this technology.
In the food industry too, consumers must be guaranteed absolute safety, and all risks should be ruled out.
Special, controllable approval procedures form the basis for the harmless use of genetically improved foodstuffs.
For ethical reasons too, comprehensive labelling is absolutely essential.
Labelling provides additional security for the consumer.
He can decide for himself whether or not he wants to use the product that has previously been scientifically tested.
If market research findings are correct, i.e. that about 80 % of the population reject these products, then they will not be successful, and so they will automatically be withdrawn from the market.
It is only possible to place them on the market when they have been approved by the experts.
Allergies are a danger to consumers; there is no doubt about that.
However, scientists tell us that they can be prevented by the proper use of genetic engineering.
We know that the use of genetic engineering can also help to reduce the amount of pesticides used as well as the use of fertilizers, and this in turn would bring environmental advantages, in the shape of improved soil and water quality.
Therefore we really do need to make a conscientious examination of this technology, and not simply condemn it out of hand.
Testing and labelling, however, are absolutely essential for European consumers in all cases.
I should like to ask the Commissioner, in all seriousness, whether he shares the opinion of Mr Bangemann on this subject.
