Mr President, when presenting the Commission's work programme for 1997 at the October part-session, Mr Santer named as the first of four priorities: ' fostering growth and employment' .
He is undoubtedly right in this respect, since the fact that there are 18 million people out of work is a problem that threatens the social cohesion of the individual Member States and the European Union as a whole.
The Union as such is faced with a challenge, although the main responsibility for employment policy lies with the Member States - and, in this context, above all with the two sides of industry.
Europe's employment strategies have so far met with only modest success.
The Member States do not give adequate support to the endeavours of the Commission and Parliament on this front.
A proposal from the Committee on Budgets could enable the first steps towards the realization of the trans-European networks to be taken.
Under that proposal, funding for a number of the projects would be transferred from category 3 to category 4 of the budget.
I welcome the fact that, in 1997, the Commission intends to promote the measures set out in the confidence pact concerning the reform of employment systems, the adjustment of structural policy and the conclusion of territorial employment pacts.
Monetary union will be a means of bringing about increased employment.
1997 will be a key year in its achievement, in which it will become clear which Member States can participate.
In this context, adhering to the timetable is just as important as fulfilling the criteria of a sound economic and monetary policy.
Only that will create jobs in the long term.
Furthermore, the Commission has announced that, in 1997, it will free from the ice of the European legislative process a number of the proposals which are blocked in the Council.
I would mention just the proposal for a Statute for the European Company.
According to the calculations of the Chiampi Group on the promotion of Europe's competitiveness, the lack of such a statute is costing European industry around ECU 30 billion every year.
In this context, the PPE Group indicates in its motion for a resolution that the rights of participation and codetermination of workers in all companies under European law must be established by mutual agreement of the two sides of industry.
I am hoping for further clarification of the social dimension of the European Union from the conference of Heads of State or Government by the middle of next year, for example through the incorporation of the social protocol into the EU Treaty, the addition of a new employment chapter - whereby I am not, however, reckoning on additional powers for the Community - and the inclusion of a general ban on discrimination and thus provision for the equal treatment of women.
Here too, the Commission can make an important contribution through its work in 1997.
