Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, how can we hope to succeed internationally in the fight against poverty if we cannot even agree on a common basis in Europe?
The legal basis does, in fact, seem to be a crucial obstacle to the further development of a successful poverty programme in the European Union, because the United Kingdom and Germany are refusing to allow further progress at EU level, on the grounds that this is a national matter under the principle of subsidiarity.
The action before the European Court has succeeded, for the moment.
So it is dubious whether they will agree to the adoption of programmes and schemes designed to react to the needs of Europe's poor, vulnerable and disadvantaged.
Under Commissioner Flynn's proposal, Council decisions would in future have to be taken by a qualified majority.
I doubt whether the countries in question will vote for the proposal at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Another factor is that definitions of the term poverty vary from country to country.
Some countries also have reservations, considerable reservations in some cases, about the so-called alternatives or the second labour market.
In this situation, from the Commission's standpoint at least, the only hope is a favourable final judgment by the European Court.
Assessing the results of this programme is certainly very difficult.
The objectives, at any rate, can be rated as unambiguously positive.
The reintegration of marginalized people into society by finding them meaningful employment through a social programme is certainly desirable.
And those concerned must be helped to continue developing their own skills by way of appropriate training and retraining.
The areas suggested, independent recycling works and small-scale craft-based enterprises, which will eventually be viable without subsidies, can be rated favourably.
The tandem concept, by which the individual concerned is allocated an experienced social worker as a guide, is the right answer to the problem of reintegration.
Intensive involvement of the older population of the so-called ghettos in aspects of education is being tried, as in America.
The homeless - of whom there are, after all, 3 to 5 million in Europe - are to be put to work building their own future homes.
That too is another good idea, where the resocialization of the marginalized and the creation of jobs go hand in hand.
The promotion of social activities, though not yet to be equated with regular employment, is important.
It remains to be noted that clear criteria for the target groups are observed.
The Commission has laid down six criteria, of which those concerned must satisfy three.
This, too, seems to me to make sense.
The Council and Commission must reach an early agreement to enable them to provide rapid, unbureaucratic assistance in the future.
It is irrelevant here whether the main focus is at national or European level, or whether Europe provides the framework and the Member States coordinate the individual initiatives.
The critical thing is that action should be taken immediately to benefit those afflicted by poverty.
That is what I ask, on behalf of the PPE, on this International Day for the Elimination of Poverty.
I should also like to thank the Irish presidency and Commissioner Flynn for their commitment.
