Mr President, I should like to thank Mrs Fontaine for the sterling work she has done.
The directive that we are discussing here - on the free movement of doctors and the mutual recognition of their diplomas, certificates and other evidence of formal qualifications - is a very important one in the eyes of the public.
It makes a practical, and not merely a rhetorical contribution to the implementation of freedom of movement and the internal market, as laid down in the European Community Treaties.
It therefore represents an important step forward.
However, the Council has simply ignored the substantive amendments that were put forward by the House at first reading.
These concerned, in particular, the position of nationals of Member States who hold diplomas awarded by third countries.
Although the directive will not prevent the Member States from allowing the holders of diplomas, certificates and other formal qualifications not acquired in a Member State from becoming established and practising as doctors, it leaves open the issue of how this should be done.
In particular, it leaves open the question of how the system of recognition should be applied in the context of freedom of movement in the European Union.
It is therefore essential to begin considering this issue, in the light of the Commission report on the state of application of the general system for the recognition of higher education diplomas.
I fail to understand how the Council can object to considering possible solutions to problems - and that is really all that we are asking for in our amendment.
I have no need to go into detail on Parliament's other crucial amendments.
Mrs Fontaine has emphasized the importance of the role played by the Standing Committee of European Doctors and of the comitology procedure that is to be applied.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists is also fully behind the amendments on these questions that have been reintroduced by the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Thank you for your attention.
