Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report presented by Mrs García Arias on the Commission's twenty-fifth report on competition policy displays an ideologically-loaded rejection of the Community's policies geared to competition, privatization and liberalization.
To that extent, it opposes the Commission's consistent liberalization and deregulation policies in the fields of transport, telecommunications and energy.
And, lastly, it castigates those Member States which have give privatization and deregulation precedence over the maintenance of public monopoly undertakings.
The political preconceptions are particularly evident in the explanatory statement, and less so in the motion for a resolution.
On behalf of my group, I should like to make the following points clear: if, in tomorrow's vote, paragraph 15 is not removed from the report, then we shall reject the report as a whole.
The Christian-Democratic group - like the Commission - opposes any amendment of Article 90(2) of the Treaty.
The calls for restriction of the application of the Treaty competition rules to public service undertakings and the deletion of Article 90(3), above all with the aim of preserving public service undertakings as state-owned enterprises, are rejected by my group.
Also, the result of such a measure would be a reduction of the Commission's role and, of course, an extension of the powers of the individual states.
The deletion of Article 90(3) of the Treaty would undermine our policy of liberalization in the fields of telecommunications, energy and postal services.
These proposals would lead to the reorientation of the Treaty in favour of national public services, at the cost of market integration.
Furthermore, I believe that paragraph 16 in the report - which obviously coincides with the Commission's views - is extremely questionable.
Such an addition to Article 3 of the Treaty would have considerable and fundamental repercussions in the European Union.
If the amendment which is called for were to come about, basic services would acquire a scope that could no longer be circumscribed.
The introduction of such a clause would thus have a serious impact on the application of the competition rules, and in particular on the aid regulations and in the area of cohesion.
Moreover, such an amendment would be an additional means - or at least a possible means - of preserving the monopolies of state-owned enterprises.
It is a second way of achieving that aim.
That cannot be our policy!
The PPE Group has always advocated strong integration and competition policies.
That is why we have made our misgivings clear, and I hope that in tomorrow's vote we shall be able to make a number of amendments to this report!
