Mr President, much of what has been said about Mr Bertens' report also applies, of course, to Mr Carnero González' very good report.
So I will confine myself to a few comments on the problem specific to this region.
Even more than South America, Central America has for years been the subject of fierce debate in this Parliament between the European parties and their Central American partners on the right road to follow.
Today democracy and peace prevail in most of the countries.
A democratically elected president has just been freely elected in Nicaragua for the second time and the EU has signed an agreement with Nicaragua aimed at supporting the education system and improving the judicial system.
The San José dialogue that has begun between Latin America and the EU and its results since 1984 may well be regarded as one of the few truly successful examples of a common foreign policy.
The framework agreement between the partner countries of the 1993 general agreement on Central American integration forms an important cornerstone of this cooperation.
It must be extended and updated.
What we do not have, however, is an institutionalized parliamentary dialogue, and that is what the EP would like to see.
But where there is light, or at least a little more light, there are also shadows: the high indebtedness, poor economic conditions, social conflicts, the integration of returning refugees, unemployment, an integration policy that does not always work and the retraining both of former soldiers and also of resistance fighters are a threat to democracies that are not yet stable.
There are still human rights infringements.
The European Parliament has discussed these questions on numerous occasions, e.g., in relation to the street children of Guatemala.
But it is Guatemala that has just introduced a peace process on which we again want to congratulate the negotiating partners.
We welcome and support that process.
But the most difficult task is to carry it through.
After years of military action, terrorism, countless deaths and distrust, a common policy needs to be formulated, which will not be easy.
Here it is up to the European Union and its joint committee to act as a suitable instrument of conciliation.
We must persevere in our cooperation with the government and the parties, unions and social organizations.
We must propose measures to promote the rule of law and an independent judiciary, human rights and their enforcement by the police and the military.
It is essential for a civil society to develop that really is prepared to assume political tasks and responsibilities and to resolve economic and social problems on its own.
We must do our share with programmes for local development, decentralization, land reform and the equality of women, and they must not just be programmes for times of crisis.
They must be real programmes, for unless we can persuade this civil society to take on responsibility for itself, if we, the EU do not help, then all the splendid words spoken in this Parliament are useless. that is why we ask the Commission to give real support in this area.
