Madam President, I should like to do two things, and also make some comments on behalf of the Committee on Regional Policy.
In 1995, total payments from the Structural Funds amounted to about ECU 21 billion.
As is shown in the 7th Annual Report on the Structural Funds, the competent Directorates General, Regional Policy and Budgetary Control, carried out a total of 220 inspections, 134 being carried out by Regional Policy and 80 by Budgetary Control.
As you might imagine, this was not enough.
However, not every project that is supported by EU funds can be inspected by the Commission staff.
The main task, i.e. that of preventing or identifying irregularities, lies with the Member States, as part of the partnership system.
In view of the fact that hundreds of millions of ECUs go missing every year as a result of fraud, however, weak points need to be recognized and remedied.
As things stand at present, I can see three such weak points.
The first weak point is organizational problems at the Commission.
Between the two Directorates General that I have just mentioned, there is the problem that the results of financial controls are not notified to the competent bodies, or else notified too late.
The second weak point is the Member States themselves.
As long as money from Brussels is not used with the same degree of care as national tax-payers' money, any form of control will be inefficient.
The misuse of money from the Structural Funds must be punished with the same degree of severity as the fraudulent obtaining of subsidies from national funds.
The third weak point is that there is no adequate legal control over the financial corrections.
We do, admittedly, have Articles 23 and 24 of the Coordination Regulation, but these have never yet been used as the basis for financial controls.
I agree with the rapporteur, who is asking for a solid legal framework.
The European Parliament has already, in its approval decision for the 1995 budgetary year, asked for a clear legal basis, under the heading 'Approval of the Structural Funds' .
As a member of the Committee on Regional Policy, I am aware that we bear a heavy responsibility for the correct use of one third of the budgetary resources of the EU.
The funds are intended to be used for economic and social cohesion purposes, and should not be allowed to trickle away, senselessly and uselessly, as a result of inefficient administration or fraudulent dealings.
I am able to support Document SEM 2000, Commission Document 3 and also the rapporteur's conclusions.
