Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is a good thing that President Santer is presenting Agenda 2000 to the European Parliament first, and I expressly welcome that.
However, I would have welcomed it even more if a spokesman for the Commission had not already presented important elements of Agenda 2000 to the press yesterday evening!
Agenda 2000 shows that the European Union has responsibility for the whole of Europe, but it is more than just a plan for expansion.
It is a self-contained plan for the future of the European Union at the outset of the next millennium.
It is a cohesive, self-contained plan that you have put before us.
The Commissioners have done what it is possible for them to do at this point.
But that will not be enough to meet the challenges of the future.
There are many things that must be and will be the subject of deep discussions during the coming months, in this House, among the public, by the national governments and between the national governments.
That is very right and proper.
But because the President-in-Office is here this morning - which I am glad to see -I should like to appeal through him to the governments of the Member States: please don't start talking this plan to death or pulling it apart or breaking it down!
The European Union needs a cohesive, integral plan summarizing its objectives and policies.
We must put an end to the politics of the chicken run, where each of the 15 governments pecks up a grain here and a grain there and then calls the result a joint policy!
(Applause) We desire and look forward to the accession of the eastern European states and Cyprus to the European Union.
We regard it as inevitable and necessary.
It represents our political and moral commitment to those peoples who have won back their freedom.
We, who have already been Members of the Union for many years, for decades in some cases, we believe we might react with some hostility to what constitutes European policy and European union.
The peoples of eastern Europe regard the European Union, European unification, as the great hope of their future, and we must and will make that hope a reality!
I am not talking here just about the distribution of subsidies or the transfer of funds, but about our recognition that this Europe of ours is a self-contained, cultural, moral unit of value in the world, not just a shunting yard for subsidies!
(Applause) This Parliament and my group will not be found wanting in the determination to meet this great challenge.
Enlargement is not merely a moral obligation.
It is also in our interests - in the very objective interests of the Member states of the European Union and of that Union as a whole.
Of course there will be a cost, there will be political problems, and not just for us but for the eastern European states, too.
The issue there, too, is for them to accept the social, economic and ecological rules that we have arrived at within this European Union.
Most of all, they face the task of creating or supporting political stability.
That is why I say that, for all European Union rules, for the adoption of the acquis communautaire , we can lay down transition periods and deadlines.
But enlargement cannot include any transition period for democracy.
We must, of course, ask ourselves the question: what does accession cost?
President Santer has made a proposal regarding the financing.
But when we ask what accession costs, we must also go further and ask what the nonaccession of the eastern European states will cost.
Because the issue is clear-cut: either the European Union, through enlargement, exports economic, political, social and ecological stability to the East, or the day will come when we have no option but to import instability from the East.
If you put it like that, the decision we have to take is a very easy one!
(Applause) As well as asking how many, and which, eastern European states are capable of joining the Union, we must also ask how many, and which, accessions we can afford in future years.
Part of the challenge confronting us is to make eastward enlargement acceptable to the citizens of our Union.
Acceptance of enlargement is greater among politicians in the Member States than among the general public.
We need to be aware of that in what we do.
We want to export stability.
But we ourselves must also be stable, which means that the Union must finally solve its own problems!
It must make its contribution to creating employment in the European Union.
The 18 million unemployed will not accept a situation where the European Union takes on new problems before it has solved the problem of employment.
(Applause) In this context, the summit in Luxembourg in November must send out a signal: a signal which says that the Union is at last concentrating its policy on employment, on the creation of employment.
A success in Luxembourg would also be a contribution to making enlargement acceptable.
What will the cost of enlargement be?
It is not for me to go through the accounts here and now, President Santer - the European Parliament and my own group will be doing that in the coming months.
I would prefer not to evaluate the Commission's proposed reforms now, except to say that they seem plausible at first glance.
Be that as it may, one thing is clear - and was made clear by what President Santer said - there can be no zerorated enlargement, financially, politically or institutionally.
Regarding the financial cost, there are still things to be discussed, but there is one principle that I can state today, Mr President.
The new Financial Forecast must include a revision clause specifying that the Financial Forecast, too, must be revised on the accession of new Member States.
And this is not just a matter of broadening the financial framework beyond 1.27 % of the gross national product - it is a matter of using it up completely and redistributing expenditure within the framework.
It is also a matter of correcting the inpayment mechanism.
This correction should not benefit the so-called wealthier 'net payers' at the expense of the poorer 'net recipients' but will be designed to ensure greater fairness in future between the wealthier Member States, the net payers.
(Applause) If enlargement cannot be zero-rated financially, the same is true politically.
President Santer has announced the continuing reform of the agricultural policy.
Here again, I do not wish to go into details.
We can all see the need for this.
Of course the burden of enlargement cannot be borne by the farmers alone.
But anyone who simply wants to enforce the present system on eastern Europe will make enlargement impossible to pay for.
We are prepared to reform the Structural Funds.
I welcome the basic outline and the plans President Santer has put forward.
It is nonsense - politically, economically and socially - if every second EU citizen lives in an EU development area.
We shall not be able to sustain that in the future, nor should we want to, because it is not a sensible development policy for the European Union.
Regarding the institutional costs, the Amsterdam summit has not made the European Union capable of enlargement.
As it stands, the European Union is incapable of meeting the challenges it will encounter in the new millennium.
As far as institutional reforms are concerned, it will not be enough to tack on a few bits and pieces here - weighting the votes in the Council of Ministers, for example - or do a little pruning there - in the number of Commissioners, for example.
Nor will it be enough to refer to the very obscure additional protocol to the Amsterdam Treaty, the interpretation of which will provide employment for lawyers for generations to come.
Never mind that.
In all seriousness, enlargement - which means the fate of Europe - is not going to depend on whether there are fifteen or sixteen or twenty or twenty-two Commissioners, or on whether country X or country Y has ten or twelve votes in the Council!
That is just absurd, that cannot be the purpose of the European Union.
(Applause) The capability for enlargement depends on our finally making all this Union's decisions majority decisions in the Council.
And it depends on whether we can succeed in striking a new balance between the necessary flexibility in a larger Union and the necessary greater solidity in an expanded European Union.
This balance must be found.
We must not become bogged down in trivial arguments about the number of Commissioners or the weighting of votes.
We want and need a fundamental reform.
A fundamental reform, not just an adjustment to this or that institution!
I am really very grateful to President Santer for making this clear.
We need this fundamental reform before the first new Member State joins us, not after one has already joined.
(Applause) And another point: this cannot be achieved by an Intergovernmental Conference, burning the midnight oil to cobble together a wild, incoherent treaty of bits and pieces.
(Applause) A treaty of bits and pieces in which no one can actually tell which are the bits and which are the pieces.
(Laughter) Not all governments have grasped the fact that the coming enlargement - never mind whether there are five or six or eleven new Member States - is going to happen.
Not all governments have grasped the fact that this enlargement that confronts us now is not comparable with any past enlargement - not that of 1973, not that of 1985-86, not that of 1995.
This enlargement, one way or another, will fundamentally change the Union.
It will be a different Union after it has absorbed eastern European states.
And not all the governments in the present Union have grasped the connection between enlargement and reform.
To enlarge the Union and carry on as before is not an option.
Without reform, an enlarged Union will very rapidly degenerate into nothing more than a free trade area.
That is not our objective.
Let us be absolutely clear about this: if the price of enlargement is the degeneration of the Union into a mere free trade area, then that price must not be paid.
(Applause) That price would be too high, not just for the Member States that belong to the European Union already but also for the states of eastern and central Europe.
Because they want to join a Union that works, a Union that is capable of doing the job it has to do, a Union that is capable of granting them aid and solidarity - not a Union that is in the process of disintegration.
There are some governments that are saying yes, a massive yes, to enlargement but no to the reform of the Union.
They want nothing more than for this Union to break down into a free trade area.
And there are other governments that are saying no to reform as a way of preventing enlargement - they exist too.
Let us beware of this trap.
Anyone who rejects enlargement in order to extort reform will prevent enlargement and then get no reform either.
That is the problem that will face us during the next few years.
The Commission proposes that negotiations should begin with 6 states, 5 + 1.
I would like to emphasize what Commissioner van den Broek said about Cyprus - that this can or must be used as a catalyst to find a solution to the Cyprus problem.
We must be careful, too, that Cyprus does not become the hostage of a reluctant negotiator.
(Applause) For the remaining four states, and others, special arrangements are to be made by this European conference.
Well and good.
We shall see what it can do.
There is another plan, too: that we begin the negotiations with all the candidates jointly, but of course do not end with all of them jointly.
Be that as it may, we must always be careful to differentiate without marginalizing.
We will need to examine in future months whether the concept of the European conference is a suitable way of guaranteeing this.
This conference must not be a mere discussion forum - it must be able to conclude agreements, at least within the second and third pillars.
(Applause) Incidentally, perhaps I may be permitted a personal comment: I proposed a similar plan in a strategy report presented to this House as far back as early 1993.
I said the same thing again at the European summit in Essen.
There was not response at the time.
I am glad that the Commission has now taken it up.
Whether there are six new Member States or more, one thing is clear: for us - and I speak here for the Socialist Group - there is no connection with the enlargement of NATO.
We are not confining ourselves to the NATO three.
No state must be excluded from the negotiations because it is not present in Madrid, nor will any state have to attend our round of negotiations just because it has first been refused NATO membership in Madrid.
Membership of the European Union is not a consolation prize for rejection by NATO - it is a prize in itself, and must be treated as such.
(Applause) So we start with the six - all right, as I said, we will see whether that is the sensible thing to do.
But if anyone wants something different from what the Council proposes, he must tell us how we can handle it and how we are going to pay for it.
Incidentally, that also applies - anticipating the objection - to the Heads of State and Government in December if they want something different.
They too will have to tell us how we are to handle it and how we are to pay for it.
Whatever happens, it will be a hard road for us all: a hard road for the peoples and states of eastern Europe, because they are now going to have to make massive efforts to achieve what we ask of them, but a hard road for us too.
Because we too, the European Union, have to become capable of enlargement.
You, the Commission, have already made your contribution today.
I congratulate you.
The Member States have not yet made their contribution.
We, the European Parliament, will be making our contribution in the months ahead, between now and the Luxembourg summit, and afterwards.
The issue is nothing less than the future of Europe!
(Loud applause)
