Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schulz, I have enjoyed listening to the various defences put forward today.
I feel we are indulging not just in a comic opera debate, but in a comic opera debate on something which in fact is no longer on the agenda at all.
The fact is that everyone knows - and Mr Schulz even said as much - that the question of the transition from K9 to K1 does not arise; the question that arises is to what extent the third pillar is or is not, for practical purposes, being absorbed in the first.
All Members have said the same thing: all that is happening, the way we are dealing with things and negotiating at present, is that we get more and more intergovernmental agreements and intercontinental agreements and less communitization, meaning less European debate that can be monitored both by the European Parliament and by the European Court of Justice.
This is fatal!
This is an abandonment of the ideal of a European institution which is also required to monitor sovereign institutions.
That is why I believe that we must do more, be more aggressive in attacking governments when the issue is developing the role of Parliament.
But we must also resolutely attack the philosophy of this debate.
We always say that Europe means more freedom for its citizens.
But we are catering for a security phobia and at the same time driving out freedom.
Because we say: more security and less and less freedom.
The classic example is Schengen, the argument about freedom of movement and the implementation of Article 7a.
We have decided in favour of freedom of movement.
We cannot implement it, so all we do is conclude intergovernmental agreements to safeguard security.
That is why I believe that this report has simply come too late.
That is why I call this a comic opera debate.
It is no longer on the agenda.
What is on the agenda is the debate about the freedom of the citizen, and I would ask all those who rightly believe that Europe has security problems not to confuse the protection of the citizen with the abolition of the necessary freedoms.
The citizen wants security in his life, but he also wants more freedom, and at present we are providing that only in a limited way and to a limited extent.
That is why our group will be abstaining in the vote on this report, because the report serves no purpose.
That is the simple, unvarnished fact today: it no longer serves any purpose at all!
Instead, we must argue about the third pillar when it becomes a pillar 1a, as it is really communitized, so that we have European controls exerted by the Parliament and the European Court of Justice.
To that extent, I agree with the remarks made by a previous speaker, Mr Schulz.
