Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, pursuant to Article 8 of the EC Treaty, Union citizenship confers upon every national of a Member State the right of freedom of movement and residence within the sovereign territory of the Member States.
However, this fundamental right of the individual is being obstructed by numerous obstacles which restrict the mobility of those who would like to live and work beyond the borders of their country of origin.
In particular, the recognition, certification and validation of educational courses and qualifications is often a stumbling block to their progress.
As a member of the Committee on Culture and the Committee on Petitions, I often find myself dealing with these obstacles to mobility.
I therefore welcome the Directive on freedom of movement for doctors and the mutual recognition of their diplomas within Community territory, in the version contained in the joint draft that is now before us.
It will bring us a step closer to our objective of free movement of individuals within Europe.
I note with satisfaction that the conciliation committee, originally in the face of resistance from the Commission, persisted in its view that the Advisory Committee on Medical Training should have the right to make recommendations to the governments of the Member States and the Commission regarding the recognition of diplomas.
For Germany, in particular, it was especially important that the association of specialists should be included.
This guarantees a comparably high standard of medical training within the Community.
The recognition of diplomas acquired by EU citizens in third countries was also discussed in the conciliation committee.
The problems associated with that are being dealt with within the framework of the general rules on the recognition of university diplomas.
It is, therefore, exclusively EU citizens that benefit from the Directive.
As we steer the European ship today, our objective is to establish the genuinely free movement of persons within Europe.
Let us set our course for that objective.
I believe that this Directive will make an important contribution to this, and I thank Mrs Fontaine for her great and successful efforts.
