The sessions of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva are, you might say, something else that comes round once a year.
But I believe that we in this House, more than most, should take them very seriously as a possible yardstick for worldwide respect for human rights.
Because this is a situation in which diplomats scrutinize the worldwide human rights situation while giving the most careful consideration to the interests of their own countries, that scrutiny carries a great deal of weight with the various states.
The European Parliament is more motivated by considerations of democratic policy, and so here too there are occasionally differences.
With the aid of the EU Commission - and I must contradict Mr Dupuis here, to some extent - the Council appears at such conferences as the co-ordinator of the Member States, and last year demonstrated a consistency which is astonishing for our Member States.
So we should like to pass on to the Commission and the Council the points that have emerged from past years' work as being necessary.
Nothing much has changed - the problem countries are still the same.
The list is a long one.
This afternoon, some of those problem countries will be dealt with here.
Nor should the death of the reforming Chinese politician Deng prevent us from drawing attention to the constant human rights violations in that country, as indeed other Members have done, and that point should not be removed from the Geneva agenda.
The motion for a resolution calls for other things too, of course, things that we feel should really be taken to heart by the Human Rights Commission, such as the development of standards or conventions for impunity, or for the trial procedure for politically motivated crimes.
This is becoming a key question in more and more of the world's countries as they make the transition from dictatorship to democracy.
Then there is the protection of children against sexual abuse and exploitation: I think that what Mr Schulz said applies in reverse as well, and that if we have, for once, achieved something good in our own countries we have the right to promulgate it elsewhere.
Majority opinion in this House favours the abolition of the death penalty, and we should always clearly emphasize that.
The questions relating to indigenous peoples, too, have become very important.
We therefore call upon the European Union and the Member States to treat human rights as a really central issue in the structuring of foreign policy and relations between peoples.
