Mr President, it is no secret that my own party, the German Social-Democratic Party, is against nuclear energy.
Nor is it a secret to colleagues that I personally, although a convinced Social Democrat, take a different view.
So I want to offer the rapporteur warm congratulations.
I would have written a similar report.
Let me say the following to Mr Weber: if it really were true that nuclear energy does not save on CO2 , then can he explain why about 7 tonnes of CO2 a year is produced per capita of population in France and 11 tonnes per capita in Denmark, which has no nuclear energy.
These calculations can be refuted by the real figures.
Turning to the matter in hand: what is our role here?
We are not building nuclear power stations.
We are not deciding whether and where a nuclear power plant is to be built.
But we are responsible for keeping the crossborder damage as low as possible - in other areas too, not just the nuclear area.
So it is our duty to see to safety, which is why it makes sense, even for those who do not want to use nuclear energy, to make research funds available.
And available not just for us but for the whole world, to cooperate, to offer technology, with a view to reducing the risks.
And now to the technology itself.
People very often have the impression that nuclear energy is becoming a dated technology, yesterday's technology, so to speak.
That is utter nonsense.
In any case there has never been a technology that simply stopped at some point.
Every technology goes on being developed.
Nuclear energy, nuclear research are also continuing to develop and in any case the research is free; this is even laid down in our German constitution.
It will go on developing and is doing so on a worldwide basis.
There are a number of examples of this.
The question facing us is: do we want to hold back our knowledge, to destroy it in a sense?
Or do we want to offer our knowledge, so that other sovereign states that are willing to invest in this sector can at least do so safely?
Nuclear disarmament is another subject we should consider - with a view to destroying stocks rather than building up new ones.
Here too we have an enormous know-how in the European Union.
No, I really think we should not close our eyes to reality here but make our contribution towards reducing the risks in nuclear as in other forms of technology.
