Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Peter has produced an excellent and comprehensive report on the Commission Communication on the social dialogue.
I congratulate him warmly.
The discussion of both documents shows that the Maastricht Treaty has opened up a new chapter in European social policy.
The United Kingdom's accession, in Amsterdam, to the agreement on social policy, has strengthened this development.
The most important aspects of European social policy were initially the coordinating rules for social security for migrant workers and the minimum standards for employment protection.
Both policy fields, employment protection and social insurance, also form the beginnings of national social policy.
Then came the idea that employees should be able to cooperate as partners and to help shape social policy.
It is in this phase of development that the social policy of the European Union currently finds itself.
I am referring to the Directive on European Works Councils, which, without the social dialogue, between the European Trade Union Confederation and UNICE, and the hearing in accordance with the agreement on social policy, would have come to nothing.
Moreover, under this agreement, it is possible for agreements to be made between social partners who, in some circumstances, may become partners under Community law by means of a Council Decision, as was the case, for example, with parental leave.
It is therefore, of course, extremely important to know who can take part in the social dialogue.
In 1993, the Commission developed a catalogue of representativeness for organizations involved in the legislative process.
If European employment law is to be created in the manner described, then this will affect not least the small and medium-sized undertakings who employ the majority of employees in Europe.
With the SMUs in mind, it is essential that there should be a rapid updating of the catalogue of representative organizations.
We await a corresponding new Commission Communication, as soon as possible.
That is the background to our demand for a separate vote on Point 16 of the Peter report, and that is why we want the section that suggests that there will be a delay to be deleted.
In principle, we are in favour of the criterion of voluntary membership in the associations that are allowed to participate in the social dialogue, but we are also in favour of a special rule in favour of the model country when it comes to social partnership, in other words Austria.
This means full participation by the Chamber of Business of the Austrian Republic, an organization under public law.
But my colleague Hubert Pirker will be saying something about that.
In order to explain our positions, we propose that in Amendment No 3, Parliament should expressly refer to the Reding Report of May 1994.
In that report, not only is the concept of representativeness clearly defined: it is also expressly demanded that the Commission should create binding structures between all representative bodies of the social partners.
The social dialogue is an expression of the principle of subsidiarity.
Therefore I would warn against trying to give the actors who are represented by it too much official advice as to what they ought to do.
In most cases they know better.
This tendency arises in some of the other amendments, which we shall be rejecting.
Subsidiarity means, in cases of doubt, giving the smaller entity preference, but also, in cases of doubt, giving preference to the arrangements of the social partners as opposed to government solutions.
It is important that the social partners should be able to use the opportunities that the Treaty on European Union offers them.
They can make use of the fact that they are closer to the reality of the situation, as compared with government and Community institutions, in order to overcome socio-political problems.
It is equally important that the Commission should be active, in issuing a new communication on the social dialogue.
With this in mind, we wish to vote in favour of the Peter Report.
