Mr President, Commissioner, the freedom of movement of individuals - as Mrs Fontaine pointed out - within the European Union is constantly being obstructed by the fact that diplomas, examination certificates and other credentials are not recognized in all Member States, or are subject to conditions.
This is incomprehensible to many citizens, and dilutes their enthusiasm for Europe.
When I hear that, according to Mrs Fontaine, we have been working on making adjustments here since as long ago as 1975, that seems to me a very, very long time.
We see the same thing in the many petitions that are constantly being presented to the Committee on Petitions, because European citizens have extreme problems as a result of their diplomas not being recognized within the Union.
Today, we are debating this amendment to the Directive to facilitate the free movement of doctors.
That really is a very long title.
My group welcomes the result so far achieved by the Conciliation Committee, and we shall accept it in that spirit.
We do regret, however, that this conciliation procedure has been unnecessarily protracted by the behaviour of the Commission.
Mrs Fontaine previously touched on a number of points, and I agree with what she said.
I should therefore like to thank Mrs Fontaine for the work she has done and the rapid progress she has made with it to enable us to accept this proposal today.
Parliament was able to get what it wanted in the so-called management committee procedure.
This is important because, by this procedure, the new developments in the medical field can be properly taken into account.
The amendments proposed by Parliament were also accepted by the Council; they were drafted and presented by Mrs Fontaine in the course of the conciliation procedure.
My group, however, had great difficulty in accepting the Directive, principally because acceptance took the form of a statement by the Commission without prior notification of Parliament.
That statement merely emphasized that equal treatment of diplomas gained outside the European Union is one of the outstanding problems.
We trust that further rapid progress will be made with this, so that people who have acquired their credentials outside the Union will be able to practise their professions inside the Union, too, where they have made their homes.
