Mr President, so the shadow of the BSE crisis has now fallen on the fisheries industry, albeit in a positive sense.
In February this year, Jacques Santer, the President of the Commission, assured the European Parliament, in a reaction to the BSE crisis, which had just been mentioned, that in future all veterinary-law decisions would be taken within the framework of the codecision procedure.
The Commission thus gave an undertaking to Parliament that any proposals that affect public health will be dealt with using the co-decision procedure set out in Article 101a of the Maastricht Treaty.
This procedure is now being applied, actually for the first time, in the case of the directive that covers hygiene and health provisions in the fisheries sector, and in this case, in particular, the control of marine biotoxins in the production and marketing of live mussels and fishery products.
Perhaps we are dealing with a precedent here, as a result of which the co-decision procedure will become the main decisionmaking process in the fisheries sector.
That, in any case, is our request to the Inter-Governmental Conference on the further development of the Maastricht Treaty.
In Amsterdam the 15 EU governments will certainly not be able to ignore it any longer.
As for the content of this report, the proposal contains two decisions.
In the first place, there is the implementation of the hygiene provisions for the production and marketing of the above-mentioned live mussels and fishery products.
For this purpose, every Member State has to designate a national reference laboratory which is responsible, in particular, for the control of marine biotoxins.
Great Britain has now, finally, complied with this requirement.
Secondly, the Commission is proposing to simplify the procedure for dealing with such matters.
In future, it will only inform Parliament when a Member State wants to change the address of the national reference laboratory.
I think that goes without saying.
The Committee on Fisheries has also agreed to it unanimously, provided that the basic principle is not put at risk, i.e. that laboratories of this kind in a Member States should, basically, be given prominence.
I must also add, that the action that Great Britain has opted for here is basically contrary to the procedure.
I can understand my colleagues' disappointment, but all the same I am pleased that, after some difficult negotiations, we have found what I hope will be a good solution.
