Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to make two requests for the Council and the Commission to take with them as they leave for Amsterdam.
The present draft Treaty provides for a step backward in terms of freedom of movement.
It no longer refers to freedom of movement but only to free movement of individuals, and that in turn is further differentiated into free movement of individuals for Union citizens and for third country nationals - in other words, people who are living among us permanently but do not have naturalized status.
If what we fear does come to pass, and a distinction is made between Union citizens who enjoy freedom of movement and third country nationals who are legally resident here but have restricted freedom of movement, then we shall be in danger of re-creating a two-class structure within the European Union in the area of civil rights, which is a dangerous business.
I therefore ask that the Conference should not lose sight of the approach adopted in the previous treaty and should ensure the implementation of that freedom of movement which was, in fact, guaranteed in the previous Treaty of 1 January 1993.
My second point is this: visa policy, customs policy, customs co-operation, asylum policy and immigration are to be communitized without full powers being given to the European Parliament, but if powers are withdrawn from the national parliaments the result is a democracy-free zone in central areas of civil rights within the European Union.
Ladies and gentlemen, please do prevent this, because it really would be a tragedy.
Madam President, I would never venture to criticize your handling of these proceedings, but I would like to make one comment.
This Parliament, too, has to undergo reform in connection with the revision of the Maastricht Treaty and the debate on revision.
If, as I hope, this Parliament is really to acquire additional powers, then this Parliament must change its way of working.
It cannot be right that men like Mr Brok, who represented this Parliament at the Intergovernmental Conference for more than two years, and Mr Dankert as a former president of Parliament are not allowed to finish what they have to say and are cut off on the pretext that we have to begin our midday voting orgy at 12 noon.
I simply cannot accept that.
We should be able to conduct a debate like this flexibly!
