Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all Mr Botz rightly says in his good report that rising unemployed is the biggest social problem facing the united Germany.
But real unemployment is far higher in the new Federal German L채nder in particular than the statistics suggest.
The European Union and the Federal German Republic have certainly used the European structural fund resources successfully to improve the situation in the Objective 1 regions in the new Federal L채nder and the Objective 2 and 5b regions in the old Federal L채nder, although unfortunately there were considerable delays in the latter case, Commissioner.
It is essential to avoid such delays in future!
It is not easy to achieve the aims of creating and protecting jobs in the new Federal L채nder, although ECU 13 640 million have been planned for 1994-1999.
In the Objective 2 regions, ECU 1 590 million are also to be set aside for the economic and social restructuring of industrially backward regions.
The lion's share of ECU 1 130 million goes to NorthRhine Westphalia and Berlin.
Lesser amounts go to states, for instance c.
ECU 32 million to Bavaria.
Instead they will receive ECU 1 230 in Objective 5b assistance.
This assistance is very important for the rural regions, especially in states such as Bavaria and Lower Saxony, for instance to enable them to tap new agricultural income sources, create new jobs and to promote training and further training.
Commissioner, at this point I would like to address your plans for concentrating and improving the efficiency of the structural funds after 1999.
In the event that Objective 5b assistance really is abolished, it is vital for rural development and assistance measures to continue, otherwise we will risk a further flight from the land and an unhealthy growth of conurbations.
At the same time, you want to assist the environment, which is damaged by this kind of trend.
Ladies and gentlemen of the European Parliament and of the Commission and the Council, when you continue with the development of the structural funds, do not forget to assist the rural areas and the people who live in them!
