Mr President, only a few weeks ago I was in the chair as the oldest Member of the European Parliament, and I was aware then that anyone who is as old as I am will have seen many things and will also have seen the opposite of everything.
I can only say this to you: when I hear the news from Belarus, I am reminded very clearly of the spring of 1938, when Hitler occupied Austria.
The selfsame approach, the selfsame technique, the selfsame language are being used here.
It is concealed totalitarianism, and there is another similarity, of which regrettably scant notice has been taken in our part of the world, namely the fact that the Weimar Republic in Germany collapsed at a time when the National Socialists and Communists together commanded an absolute majority in the Reichstag.
And however much Boris Yeltsin, to whom I might still ascribe a degree of goodwill, might squirm in this situation, we must not forget that in today's Duma exactly the same combination of forces exists as in the German Reichstag of that time.
On the one side there is the whole faction around Shirinovsky, and on the other side there are the Communists, so that we again have an absolute totalitarian majority which, although it may not manage any positive action, is able to destroy any initiatives.
That is the terribly depressing thing about these developments in Belarus.
It is therefore imperative that everything possible be done to overcome this situation.
There is not very much we can do, but we should certainly make our point most emphatically, and we should devote the utmost energy to persuading other bodies, including our esteemed Council, to take immediate action on this issue.
Mr President, there are always masses of resolutions with which all our views can be broadcast, but if these resolutions are given no teeth, totalitarian dictators will make fun of them, if they heed them at all, but they will not take them seriously.
Just look at Mr Lukashenko's repeated declarations, at the way in which he is dismantling civil liberties bit by bit.
Freedom of the press has virtually been eliminated, and parliamentarians, as Mrs Schroedter rightly said, have already been imprisoned.
We should therefore signal very emphatically our solidarity with these parliamentarians, with the opposition in Belarus.
And we should perhaps also demand that our Council finally adopt a decisive and resolute position in this situation.
That is really what is needed here.
I should like to conclude by expressing my sincere thanks to Mrs Schroedter.
She was one of the very first to go to Belarus and to see what was happening there.
I also remember that there were many at the time who ridiculed her, who thought she was imagining things.
But what she saw was no figment of the imagination; it was a demon which, unfortunately, is more alive now than ever before.
Had we perhaps reacted more vigorously at the time, we might have changed something.
Possibly not, but we still ought to have tried.
I therefore ask the House to do everything in its power to exert pressure on Belarus, and on Russia too, so that the situation there can at least be brought partly under control.
The fact is that failure to do so may result in the long run in a terrible international catastrophe.
