Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the situation in Albania is extremely difficult, as we have just heard.
Unfortunately, many Western press reports from that country have done nothing to clarify the situation but have confined themselves to laying the blame on President Berisha and his Government.
Let me say, however, that the source of the troubles in southern Albania is not political, but lies in the collapse of the pyramid investment schemes and in President Berisha's attempt last autumn to put an end to Mafia activities, especially in the southern part of Albania.
Many speculators and crooks who were defrauding ordinary people saw their financial success evaporate and exploited the misery of these people for their own ends.
Sadly, the opposition, consisting largely of old Communists - whom not even their political soul mates in the Socialist International would accept as members - also used this situation for the political purposes they had failed to achieve through the ballot box.
I do not share the opinion of the Council representative that everything went wrong last year.
The fact that the local elections in September produced the same results as the elections in March shows how the outcome of the March election is to be judged.
I am not speaking of the irregularities, which were eradicated, and I believe you should also take account of that.
For these reasons, when you speak of the Berisha Administration, you must proceed on the assumption that it is a legitimate government.
The proclamation of the state of emergency has to be understood, or so I believe, in the light of the despotism to which the people of the south have been subjected.
Which Western Government would stand by and let that happen in its own country?
May I say to the representative of the Council that the dismantling of a legitimate Government with Western assistance is, I believe, unprecedented.
When similar things were happening in Russia, not one of you would have dreamed of cutting Mr Yeltsin adrift.
The idea that the old faces of Communism, who bear responsibility for the lack of democratic traditions, are now supposed to establish democratic conditions under pressure from abroad is grotesque.
The Berisha Government has made considerable progress towards democracy and a market economy, as this Parliament unanimously acknowledged last autumn.
It is therefore wrong to lay the whole blame at President Berisha's door.
We know full well that he is not without fault.
But the reasons for the terrorism and anarchy in the south are to be found elsewhere.
It must also be said that we have scarcely any conception here of the antagonism which has existed for hundreds of years between various regions and is now erupting into open hostility.
The arrangement that has now been concluded between President Berisha and the opposition parties must be implemented by both sides, and so I cannot accept being approached today by anyone asking me to help ensure that Mr Berisha leaves the country and receives asylum somewhere or other.
I do not believe that this is the proper way to honour an agreement.
The European Union must help to create democratic structures, to promote education and training, to establish market structures backed up by a genuine system of social protection and to promote investment and thus create jobs.
Should the arrangement that has now been reached by President Berisha and the opposition fail to take the heat out of the situation, which I must sadly assume, since the origin of the crisis is not political - a fact we are trying to demonstrate here - an international task force will have to be sent in to restore peace.
There is one point on which I am in full agreement with the Council representative: I too am in favour of a thorough examination of the occurrences in Albania.
