Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome the report and the communication from the Commission.
I believe it is important to continue expanding relations between the European Union and the Latin American continent to avoid the risk of being edged out of this continent by the United States.
Moreover, I agree with the rapporteur that in many areas the Commission's communication fails to make any concrete proposals.
We will urgently need an action plan here in the near future.
For example, there are no proposals on dealing with the drug problem, which is very acute in these countries.
That means that the general socio-economic structures have to be improved.
But a specific programme also needs to be formulated with the aim of substituting alternative crops for narcotics through a specific agricultural development policy.
I welcome the proposal concerning the importance of information about that continent and mutual understanding, with a view to strengthening the rule of law and involving civil society in the development of a genuine human rights structure.
My experiences in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media and in the South America delegation have shown me how important it is to promote exchanges, especially between young people.
That is why I would suggest developing the existing programmes of scientific and technical cooperation and aiming them in particular at universities, to give young people and budding scientists a chance to be actively involved in the new partnership and benefit from their mutual experiences.
In general, we need research on Latin America and a comparative study of European-Latin American development, bringing out both the common features and the differences between the two cultures, so that we can base all our future measures on the findings.
That is the only way to ensure that Latin American culture is acknowledged and treated as independent.
Finally, I want to address one other aspect where I think improvements are needed: the much-criticised European bureaucracy makes it difficult for good ideas to be translated into action in this area too.
It is important to simplify the system of applying for projects and the administration of the research programmes.
Only then can the applications be processed rapidly and projects be approved quickly.
