Mr President, let me first of all offer my sincere congratulations to Mrs Pack on a truly excellent report.
Allow me, as a scholar of sport and a former Austrian national coach, to make my observations on European sport from a quite specific perspective.
The importance of sport has hitherto been totally underestimated in the EU; on the rare occasions it is ever mentioned, it is considered as a purely economic factor.
Sport has no legal basis at all in the EU; there are no explicit references to sport in any article of the Treaties.
And yet sport has many very important functions to perform in today's society.
There is scarcely any other domain of activity that is so capable of motivating young people to make good use of their leisure time and of reintegrating marginalized groups into society through meaningful activity.
It encourages elderly people to keep themselves physically fit.
So the importance of sport lies both in its enormous impact as an instrument of preventive medicine and above all in its great sociocultural potential.
We in the Freedom Party of Austria are therefore entirely in agreement with the rapporteur that sport should be incorporated into Article 128 without delay as tangible evidence of its significance.
Lastly, sport is also extremely important as a means of international understanding when it takes the form of fair and sporting contests with other countries, when people take pride in representing and supporting their own nations without letting that pride spill over into senseless and excessive nationalism.
Sport is an international language.
Sport binds people together!
Sport is a celebration of what we have in common, not of our differences.
Sport can therefore do more to foster mutual understanding than many an artificially conceived European project.
We should not therefore regard sport as a primarily economic activity but as an essential social and cultural contribution to international understanding, and we should do all we can to promote it within the strict bounds of the subsidiarity principle.
