Madam President, I am convinced that non-conventional medicine can be of great use to patients.
I take it as read that there is a need for action at European level in this field, but I would stress first and foremost that Community interference in the organization or contribution and reimbursement obligations of national health insurance schemes is unnecessary.
In accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, dealing with these matters remains the responsibility of the Member States.
As a practising pharmacist, I feel it is important that the report gives valuable impetus to the debate on the question of self-medication.
There are calls for increased selfmedication in a great many countries, when health systems come under review.
Pharmacists must therefore come to grips with the question of self-medication and bring their knowledge to bear in consultations on the choice of treatment with so-called gentle medicines.
In any event, they need to able to judge confidently the nature of the illness and the extent of the threat.
Non-conventional therapies are based on the same natural laws as conventional therapies, but seek to stimulate the body's internal self-healing powers to a greater degree.
It is also important to stress that the different types of therapy are not mutually exclusive, but complement one another.
It is extremely important for patients to be guaranteed a very high level of safety, and it must be ensured that they are given detailed information on the quality and effectiveness - and also the possible risks - of non-conventional therapies.
It is therefore necessary to secure the highest possible level of qualification and a requirement to provide information.
The level of Europe-wide qualifications must be as least as high as that already required for non-medical practitioners in Germany and Sweden.
Furthermore, in the interests of patient protection, there is a need for compulsory liability insurance which is not of a lower standard than that required for conventional medical practitioners.
It has been my experience in the Committee on Petitions that we frequently discuss the recognition of diplomas at European level.
And there is no indication in the Treaty that non-conventional medical disciplines should be excluded from such recognition.
In the interests of securing cross-border mobility, the recognition of diplomas in this field must also be promoted.
In general terms, it must not happen that the practice of a non-conventional medical discipline is prevented in a Member State because the profession does not exist in that country.
I also believe that, in an age of Europe-wide telemedicine and teleshopping, the existing study courses in medicine and pharmacy should be reviewed rather than harmonized, and I would likewise propose that courses in nonconventional medicine should also be offered at universities.
I welcome Mr Lannoye's proposals for the Commission to draw up studies on non-conventional medicine, using them as a basis for any coordinating legislation, and for the Council and Parliament to encourage the development of research programmes in this field.
