Mr President, Mrs Gradin, we in the Green Group do not, in any way, feel able to join in with the congratulations given to the group of advisers on ethics.
On the contrary, The group of advisers on ethics has proved itself to be a group of hired applauders of the European Commission, and its job is simply to create acceptance for gene technology and biomedicine.
In its reports and opinions to date, it merely covers the Commission's back as far as ethical issues are concerned, and in its most recent opinion on cloning, even the embryo research that has been prohibited in Germany is declared to be ethically acceptable.
The cloning of animals is also given an ethical certificate of harmlessness.
With its opinion on cloning, the group of advisers on ethics has once again proved that as far as they are concerned, it is not a question of the ethical assessment of new technologies, but a question of gaining acceptance.
It makes no proposals at all about what steps should be taken at international level to stop the cloning of human beings.
In view of the unsatisfactory reports from the group of advisers, and its obvious role as an acceptance creator, it is completely unthinkable that the ethics advisory group should be congratulated on its work to date in the joint resolution proposed by the Christian Democrats and the Socialists.
This is a sign of political inadequacy in the European Parliament.
Mr Liese has already referred to the example of gene manipulation.
I would also remind the House that the group of advisers on ethics also declared that the Commission's secrecy regulation concerning the novel foods regulation was ethically acceptable, etc. etc.
The ethics group also meets behind closed doors, and the opinions of Parliament, as Mr Liese has already pointed out, have not been taken into account at all in the group's work so far.
In its work, the ethics advisory group has very much taken into account the interests of research, and has completely ignored the effects of the new technologies on society.
The ethics advisory group operates as a sedative pill for the public.
The discussion about social issues will be avoided altogether, if the public debate is delegated solely to so-called experts chosen by the Commission.
The ethics advisory group does not inform the public; on the contrary, it tries to mollify public opinion.
It is therefore completely incomprehensible that these two major political groups should be turning themselves into the lackeys of the EU Commission and the Group of Advisers on Biotechnology Ethics.
Owing to the one-sided orientation of the group of advisers, and its role as the creator of acceptance for the EU Commission, in our opinion the mandate should not be renewed under any circumstances.
Mrs Gradin, I can understand that the EU Commission is interested in having someone who will always keep their backs covered where ethical issues are concerned, but when it comes to public debate, this ethics advisory group has made no contribution at all.
On the contrary!
We need to promote public discussion, for example, by holding consensus conferences like they do in Denmark.
Instead of having an ethics advisory group that meets behind closed doors, we need democratic participation in our dealings with the ethical issues arising form gene technology.
The human issues should not be left to experts appointed by the Commission, who meet behind closed doors; they must be discussed by society at large.
My final point is this: the question of what is ethically permissible can only be decided on by society itself, not by competent experts acting as the guardians of that society.
