Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if I may I should like to comment on two essential points: the stability pact and Professor Monti's action programme.
First, the stability pact.
You will recall that the stability pact was the subject of very intensive negotiations between the European Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
I must say to President Santer and the President-in-Office that we had an exceptionally fruitful dialogue on this matter.
Parliament has proposed a few amendments, and I would like to recall the most important points that were made by Parliament.
The first is that we believe that the so-called golden rule whereby investment must be higher than new net indebtedness should be taken into account in the structuring of the stability pact.
This rule is already enshrined in the constitutions of some Member States, whereas in others that is not yet the case.
Those Member States whose constitutions include this rule are currently experiencing certain difficulties with it, which shows that it is a strict rule.
I believe that it will be valuable for this rule to be incorporated into the stability pact.
I should also welcome it if this rule were to be phased in to the constitutions of the Member States, because this would not only comply with the principle of subsidiarity but also offer an additional guarantee that all Member States would pursue a course geared to stability.
That is my first point, one demand made by Parliament, and I must say that the President-in-Office, Mr Zalm, basically took a very positive attitude to it.
I should be very pleased if it were to be proved possible to achieve a result here.
The second point, on which we are negotiating, is that we believe that money from fines that are paid must be treated in accordance with general principles of budgetary law, in other words it must go into the budget of the European Community.
I know that the Finance Ministers are looking for some arrangement outside the budget.
But, gentlemen, I have the impression that no legal basis has yet been found for this.
I do not know whether the Council, in its search for the legal basis, has yet succeeded in finding a solution outside the European budget.
We in this House are of the opinion that the solution must lie within the European Budget.
The European Parliament's Committee on Budgets has again confirmed that very emphatically.
As to how these monies are distributed, we can worry about that in due course.
This is a question we can talk about.
The European Parliament is ready to play its part in a process of creative thinking.
People like Mr Christodoulou have been involved in the negotiations, and he has already distinguished himself as the inventor of the negative reserve.
There is a need for creative thinking here.
I should be very pleased if we could achieve a result.
