Mr President, Commissioner Monti, the European Parliament would forfeit its credibility if it adopted the Rothley report, which is totally unacceptable in terms of ethics and morality.
Parliament will be a laughing-stock if it adopts a report to which it was still opposed on 1 March 1995, on the basis that the Commission keeps making it vote until it comes up with the desired result, until Parliament has bowed before the genetic engineering industry.
The new proposal still provides for the patenting of living organisms.
Even human genes can be patented; the only proviso is that they must be isolated from the human body.
If Parliament adopts this report, it will have set its seal on one of the greatest and most scandalous property redistributions in history.
Life would become a commodity, a product.
As Klondyke fever sets in, humankind will be reduced to a source of raw materials which can be exploited at will.
That will violate human dignity.
The human race will be degraded to mere biological material and the human body to a marketable commodity.
If Parliament approves this report, the ethical floodgates will come under intense pressure.
Human dignity and selfdetermination will be bartered away in the marketplace.
For the first time since the abolition of slavery, it will be possible to claim property rights over human beings.
Is our life an invention?
Life is not an invention of genetic engineers.
Not even the cloning of body cells, as was done in the case of Dolly the sheep, or the patenting of biological weapons are excluded in the Legal Committee's report.
For the first time, treatments and diagnoses of patients will become patentable.
That will restrict treatment options in a life-threatening manner.
The patenting of living matter will lead to an huge upsurge in the commercialization of medicine.
Doctors will no longer be free to choose the most effective treatment.
A two-tier system of health care will be firmly established.
The directive does not set out a fundamental position on genetic engineering.
The patenting of a medicinal drug produced by means of genetic engineering will be entirely unimpeachable, despite the fact that the gene in question, which has existed for centuries, could never be called an invention.
The patenting of genetic material will stifle applied research and impede innovation.
That emerges clearly from the patenting of umbilical-cord blood cells, which has erected a barrier to applied leukaemia research.
Patents will establish a monopoly on all uses of genes, including potential future uses.
We are using this directive to privatize nature.
I therefore appeal to you to reject the report as it now stands and to adopt the amendments tabled by the Green Group.
That is the only way to ensure that the moral floodgates are not forced open here in the European Parliament.
