Madam President, a few days ago, Baruch Ivcher was stripped of his Peruvian citizenship.
His crime?
On his television channel, ' frecuencia latina' , he had reported on the tapping of telephones belonging to human rights activists and intellectuals.
In Peru at the present time there is neither freedom of the press nor freedom of opinion.
Anyone who expresses criticism of President Fujimori is putting his life in danger.
A female secret service agent was quartered because she denounced government attacks on the press.
Her lawyers were afraid for their own lives.
Justice in Peru is muzzled.
Three judges who considered a third re-election of President Fujimori to be unconstitutional were promptly prohibited from practising their profession.
The Supreme Constitutional Court is about to be dissolved.
The Peruvian system is increasingly coming to resemble a military dictatorship.
A presidential advisor called Montesinos, but known internationally as Narco-General, is firmly in control.
Courageous members of parliament, such as Xavier Diez Canseco, who visited us here in Parliament two weeks ago, have been and still are the victims of assassination attempts planned by people like Montesinos, and this has been proven.
Thousands of political prisoners are vegetating, without trial, in prisons that are an affront to human dignity.
Not even the Red Cross is allowed to visit them.
At the same time, an amnesty law protects the military personnel by giving them immunity from prosecution for their acts of violence and atrocities.
We had an opportunity last year, when we were there, of holding discussions with President Fujimori.
I can only say one thing: I have never experienced such an ice-cold, inflexible politician as him.
Even if he can point to economic successes, a system that is so undemocratic that it forces the population to be quiet in order not to be murdered can in no way be tolerated by us.
I expect the European Union to make any further cooperation with Peru conditional upon substantial improvements in the human rights situation and in democratization.
Otherwise, we cannot continue to maintain our high expectations here.
