Mr President, today's debate is linked almost seamlessly with Agenda 2000, and virtually obliges us to pre-empt some of its content.
The participation of the CEECs - Hungary, Romania and the Czech Republic - in EU education and training programmes is a major structural step towards the consolidation of relations in preparation for their accession to the EU.
If enlargement to the east is to be conducted in a socially responsible way, priority must be given from the outset to education and training programmes.
This cannot be stressed often enough.
Nor can there be any doubt about the need for adequate and credible funding of the Socrates, Leonardo and Youth for Europe programmes.
To this end, all the proper mechanisms must be put in place by the EU - or rather, by the Council - and that has yet to be done.
The design of the programmes is also crucial.
Activities to promote foreign language knowledge under the programmes must be supported and stepped up: this is what the Commission describes in its proposals on the implementation of the education and training programmes as the east-west dialogue using the present EU official languages.
More vision needs to be shown here, and considerably more resources could be made available in the CEECs and the EU if, as well as the official languages, those of the future Member States were also included in this dialogue, especially since some of these already have the status of regional languages in parts of the EU and are being kept alive by minority groups.
This, moreover, is what the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs is calling for.
An overall concept of integration, for example with regard to lesser-used languages, also means taking into account those such as Romany, the language of the Roma and Sinti, which is spoken in many EU countries.
Ultimately, this would help to raise the profile of lesser-used languages and also to preserve Europe's cultural diversity, a basic prerequisite for long-term intellectual competitiveness in Europe.
Enlargement towards the east should not just be regarded from an economic point of view: the inclusion of the CEECs in EU education and training programmes is a key aspect of our strategy of eastward enlargement.
Languages and cultural aspects in general are a vital component of democratic and social integration, and are at least as important as any financial aspects.
