Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing four reports on telecommunications and we are discussing them jointly.
That is indeed sensible.
For there are so many aspects to the information society that we can only consider them together.
But what is the real situation in the European Union?
At present we as producers are losing market shares, and on an annual basis.
We only have two large firms, accounting for just 10 % of the market, that are European.
We are fuelling a broad social debate on the potential hazards of the information society, on those who might lose out.
We do not have harmonized markets.
We are cutting back on resources for research and development in the field of information technologies too.
So we find the Americans asking us - as they actually did at a meeting last week in Bonn - why are you actually so against E-mail and the Internet?
Incidentally, when we discuss the Internet we spend more time on the risks and on child pornography than on communication between remote parts of the world.
So what do we need?
First we need more R&D resources.
And we need broad consensus on that.
We cannot just finance things we want to keep.
We must also finance things that will secure our future.
This research has to be coordinated and to be applied research.
That in turn also means we have to agree to pay far more attention to applications, going so far as really to offer assistance to the industry where that is necessary.
We also need broadly based research on standards.
Only if we can develop our own standards will we be able to conquer the markets of the future.
And it is precisely in this context of the information society that we need a far greater and far better transfer of technology than we did in the past.
Why is it beneath us to finance applications, why do we only stick to the basics?
There is nothing wrong with satellites that bring in money, with satellite applications.
We do not have to confine ourselves to sending out research satellites.
But above all, we will only create an information society and create networks if the people accept them, if there is a demand for them.
In other words - and even if I do not think much of this in other contexts - in this case we need a broadly based information campaign, but also a positive information campaign that begins by listing the potential and opportunities of the information society rather than its possible risks.
For the rest, we need a largescale offensive to promote teleworking.
If we have a lot of teleworking that will also contribute to rural development and will encourage women to work by making it easier for them to combine family and a job.
If we create a large number of teleworking jobs, we will have to introduce accompanying social measures.
But if we reject this from the start and take a negative attitude from the start we will never make headway here.
I sometimes fear that we will miss out on an opportunity for the future.
In the field of the information society it is particularly important that we act centrally, and we must do so now.
That is why these four reports and the four Commission proposals are so welcome at this particular point in time.
