Mr President, there are numerous aspects of both the Commission report and, unfortunately, Mr Cohn-Bendit's report that cause me some difficulty, because it seems to me that they have both taken the wrong approach, at least as regards timing and also in terms of geography.
However, I shall leave the geography to Mr Oostlander.
It is clear that despite the bloody collapse of one-party rule in Yugoslavia, too many Europeans still fail to realize that any pressure in the direction of cooperation at the present time will simply be rejected because people will fear that it is a dressed-up attempt to create a new Yugoslavia.
How is it that we have ended up applying double standards?
Slovenia, which is also a successor state of the former Yugoslavia, has enjoyed and continues to enjoy all kinds of preference and assistance, without being subject to the conditions set out in the report.
I am sure that following the lifting of the Greek boycott and the sanctions against Serbia, Macedonia will now at last be able to develop freely and resolve its Albanian problem; and that Croatia too, after the end of the illegal occupation of a third of its territory, will now be able to attend more effectively to developing its democratic structures and economy and, of course, repatriating refugees.
However, just like Slovenia, it must receive the necessary help from the European Union to enable it to do this.
It is obvious that some form of regional economic cooperation will then emerge.
To that extent, I would endorse what Mr Cohn-Bendit has said in recital E: that a regionally based approach must be more broadly based and does not imply the re-creation of the former Yugoslavia, but should take into account the individual special features of each country, and the fact that one country might decline to cooperate must not be allowed to prevent any other country from effecting a rapprochement with the EU.
All very impressive!
Unfortunately, Mr Cohn-Bendit, your report fails to reflect that principle.
And if the European Union intends to reward what you yourself refer to as cumulation of product origin, then that will effectively mean a return to the former Yugoslavia under the cover of trade.
Such a proposal is totally insensitive!
We cannot put the cart before the horse.
Nor, by the same token, is it possible to compare what now needs to be done in this area with what we were able to do in Europe long after the Second World War.
My point is that we must begin by ensuring that order is established in each country.
We must ensure that refugees are able to return to their homelands, so that the experience of coexistence once again becomes part of national life in these countries.
Only then will it be time for cross-border cooperation.
On the question of Bosnia-Herzegovina, I entirely agree on the need for consolidation, but ultimately that also needs to be worked for!
And it is time for everyone who signed the Dayton peace agreement to start putting it into action.
I very much hope that we shall have the backing of the House for the inclusion of one minor point, namely support for the European schools.
I believe that these schools, through their multi-ethnicity, have a long-term impact which an event like the pop festival - which I also support - cannot hope to have.
The festival will encapsulate a moment in time, and that is worthwhile, but it will not lead young people in the direction that we have to lead them - along the road to multi-ethnic coexistence.
To do that, we need curricula in the schools and teachers to do the work, and this is where we should deploy our manpower and our expertise.
We should also learn the lesson of Albania: that money alone is ineffective, the only effective way is to put people on the ground in the country.
I share the belief that an institution such as the proposed foundation can achieve something positive.
But I do not believe that it can be effective in isolation.
We must also involve the ECMM and all the people on the ground, and work with them to rebuild the state.
The fact is that there is precious little will to live together in BosniaHerzegovina.
Very few people there genuinely wish to make coexistence a reality.
The bodies that were elected last September lack a common civic identity.
I very much regret that this should be so, and we must begin by helping them to develop such an identity before there can be any question of achieving cross-border cooperation.
