Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on External Economic Relations, Mr Dimitrakopoulos, cannot present his opinion himself today, because he unexpectedly had an important engagement outside Strasbourg.
On his behalf, I would therefore like to thank Mrs Carrère d'Encausse for her excellent and in-depth report and also note that she has incorporated all the Committee on External Economic Relations' proposals in her report, which of course gives us great pleasure.
The Committee on External Economic Relations also welcomes the call for closer regional cooperation between Armenia, Georgia and Azerbaijan, the leitmotif of the entire report.
Without this cooperation these three countries have little hope of improving their economy and standard of living.
The bilateral partnership agreements between the EU and these three Transcaucasian republics are based on this need.
We are concerned with no more nor less than a global political approach that combines economic, political and financial aspects and also includes humanitarian aid.
The economic resources of these countries can only be developed if the energy and transport infrastructures are modernised on a cross-frontier basis and substantially improved.
Closer cooperation is needed between Azerbaijan, Georgia and also Armenia in extracting the oil resources of the Caspian Sea - greater than those of Saudi Arabia - for export to Europe and the rest of the world but also for processing in situ .
Regional cooperation can also help ease the political tensions in the region.
Access to the Transeuropean networks and other international trade flows is the only way to open the door to close cooperation with Europe.
Politically, the aim is the stabilisation of three former Soviet republics that have achieved independence, which implies very radical economical and social changes.
As a peaceful partner, Europe can achieve a great deal in cooperation with Turkey and Russia.
So we should aim at the necessary coordination of bilateral relations too, in order to ensure that our desire for cooperation is taken seriously by our Transcaucasian partners; joint and even further-reaching proposals in the framework of bilateral relations, i.e. with Azerbaijan, Armenia and Georgia, could also act as incentives during the future negotiations.
As draftsman of the opinion of the Committee on External Economic Relations, let me also indicate some of the potential prospects for Azerbaijan, which will perhaps make it easier to understand the problems in Transcaucasia.
Azerbaijan is potentially a rich country.
As said earlier, its oil reserves in the Caspian Sea are larger than those in Saudi Arabia.
Its industry, agriculture and services sector also have good development prospects.
But at present it is a poor country, much in need of economic development.
It is suffering severely from the lost war with Armenia.
It is situated on the door-step of the eastward enlargement of the European Union and in a few years will probably only be separated from it by the Black Sea and the Caucasus.
European investors are most welcome there and are particularly sought after in the oil industry, capital equipment for that industry, transport and the emerging construction industry.
Azerbaijan is already providing the necessary framework conditions for investment.
The basic conditions for overcoming the economic crisis are the planning and development of transport routes via Georgia for the oil and derived products.
All the possible routes and networks should be examined in terms of their profitability and environmental compatibility, which must be borne in mind in our future deliberations.
