Mr President, much as the standardization of higher-education diplomas is to be welcomed, that does not actually guarantee what the successful completion of a diploma course is supposed to reflect.
In practice it often means very little that graduates of different universities have the same right of access to the various professions in the entire European Union; the only guarantor of equal professional opportunities throughout the EU is comparability of training levels.
The oft-repeated argument that every university and every country should have the right to develop its own curricula is only justified if graduates emerge from their courses of study with comparable qualitative levels of training.
It is therefore especially important to uphold the subsidiarity principle by enabling Member States to decide whether the practice of a profession should or should not be regulated.
It therefore ought to be possible for individual countries, irrespective of mutual recognition of diplomas, to enact their own laws or regulations governing proof of professional aptitude.
The fact is that with no coordination of the various countries' curricula at all, the European Union would soon have a similar situation to that which prevails in countries like the United States, where a diploma from one university guarantees a far higher level of aptitude than the same diploma from another.
In this modern competitive society, where success and promotion depend on the free market, graduates of the so-called élite universities will generally swim to the top.
And if entry to these élite universities then becomes correspondingly more expensive, that will create unfair conditions, with university entrance becoming dependent on the financial clout of students' families or other sponsors.
Free access to the employment market throughout the EU - and that is surely meant to be the whole purpose of standardized diplomas - is therefore not guaranteed by mere recognition of diplomas.
That would be a phoney type of equality and would possess no credibility in the real world.
