Madam President, the Green Group also congratulates Mrs Dybkjær on her report, which it welcomes.
In Rio, the industrialized countries accepted the main responsibility for the worldwide environmental crisis and for correcting the ecological mistakes of the past.
As yet, no action has followed this expression of remorse.
That point has already been made.
Environment and development policy is stagnating, and indeed we should actually be talking about a 'roll-back' in environment policy.
Nor has the EU taken on a pioneering role.
It gauges its measures not by the scientific need for them, but by the willingness of industry to compromise.
Of course, the same also applies to the Member States.
Hence the energy tax in Germany is blocked by the argument that Brussels is responsible for it, and Brussels argues that the responsibility lies with the USA and Japan.
It is clear to us that the sparkle of Rio has gone.
Now we can see the reality.
And the reality is that we have no biodiversity convention, no biosafety protocol and no climate protocol.
Kyoto is scheduled for December, and we still do not know if we shall succeed in adopting a protocol on climate protection there.
And we are still miles away from a convention on forests.
Not even Rio could agree on that.
We must therefore put the subject of sustainable development back at the top of the world's political agenda.
The Special Session of the General Assembly in New York must send out some clear political signals, to the effect that implementation of Agenda 21 needs to be binding - too many of its provisions are still optional.
We really need binding force here, the introduction of minimum social and environmental standards in world trade, a binding framework convention on climate, with a biodiversity convention containing climate and biosafety protocols, and an agreement on the protection of forests.
I hope that UNGASS succeeds in doing this, because otherwise Rio will have achieved nothing, and we shall be set back years in our discussion of the environment.
