Mr President, having heard the stance which the Council is adopting - and, viewed objectively, it is the only one it could have been expected to take - namely that the first priority in this difficult issue is to examine the WTO ruling, I have to say that I believe this ruling comes as a severe disappointment to the majority of Members of this House.
The panel is calling for the banana regime to be brought into line with obligations under the WTO licensing agreement and GATT.
To justify this requirement, the panel refers to Article 16(4) of the Marrakesh agreement under which the WTO was set up.
We are all quite clear that if the European Union and its Member States refuse to toe the line, this could constitute a breach of that agreement and possibly call into question important aspects of the WTO - an organization which we promoted and helped to create.
That is why it is very important for the European Union that a solution should be found in the context of the WTO.
I would urge the Commission to consider the possibility of reaching an agreement with the USA - as was done in relation to the Helms-Burton Act - before we find ourselves on the losing side for a second time in a dispute settlement case.
The European Commission would be ill-advised to make its relationship - and Parliament's relationship - with the WTO dependent on the success or failure of any particular dispute proceedings: the party with the weaker case must be prepared to be a good loser.
But whether our case is the weaker is still an open question.
The possibility must also be considered that the WTO ruling was one-sided, and legal steps should be taken to examine this.
I am afraid, Commissioner, that we may soon be discussing another similar ruling in the dispute over hormones in meat.
In the present case, the WTO panel maintains that regardless of whether they come from EU countries, ACP countries, framework agreement countries or other third countries, bananas are products of the same description under GATT and must therefore be treated in the same way.
We have to consider whether that view is correct.
As regards the preferential tariff for ACP bananas, this may well breach the basic principle of most-favoured nation status.
However, this breach should be covered by the derogation allowing the EU to grant special treatment to ACP countries until the year 2000.
This means that the EU is also entitled in principle to grant a preferential tariff for non-traditional ACP bananas.
There has already been public speculation that the Commission is considering seeking an alternative solution.
Our view is that the EU should not act in breach of the agreement.
But we shall support any move that is necessary to establish whether this WTO ruling has a clear legal basis, and we hope that it may yet prove possible to resolve these matters in a way that does not undermine all our expectations of the panel.
