Madam President, I can basically endorse what was said by Mrs Lenz, although I must correct one thing.
There is not just a threat of assassinations, they have in fact been carried out, which means that this form of violence has taken place alongside the violence on the Serbian side, in the prisons and so on.
So the first thing we must call for is certainly that this violence should come to an end.
But Mrs Lenz was right to say that Kosovo is a powder keg, and we also have to realize that the Kosovo question can only be solved within the context of the overall situation in Yugoslavia.
I should therefore briefly like to mention the following five points, which seem particularly important to me and to our group.
Firstly, there must be fair and transparent elections, in other words the elections which take place must really offer every person, every party and every section of the population the chance to present their programme and their candidates.
Secondly, there must be media laws, but above all media practices too - and this was brought home to us on our visit to Yugoslavia - which correspond to freedom of the media.
It must also actually be possible for human rights abuses, whether in Kosovo or other areas, to be described publicly and discussed, because there are many citizens who know nothing at all about these, since such matters are concealed from them in many cases or across the board.
Thirdly, the European Union and above all its cities and regions must support the new municipal authorities, thereby signalling that this new democracy also has Europe's full support.
Fourthly, there must of course be full recognition of human rights, in particular the minority rights of all groups.
In this context, I would very much refer to the Hungarian minority.
Lastly, a real solution must be found to the problem in Kosovo.
It is important here to make it clear to all sides: stop the violence, take part in talks, and find a solution within Yugoslavia.
If we are talking here about holding a conference, then all the factions must be prepared to engage in dialogue, and the European Union needs to spell it out to all of them that this dialogue must take place inside Yugoslavia.
We can provide help from outside, but the solution to the problems must be found in Yugoslavia itself.
