Mr President, I am addressing the House on behalf of Mrs Soltwedel-Schäfer, who is unfortunately unable to attend.
When we look at this document we can only say that it is the opposite of what is desirable - a flexibility derived from principles.
What happens here is that the principles are formulated first - as Mr Van Velzen has just pointed out - and then the opposite course is pursued.
Above a firmament of bright ideas and good intentions we then have a substructure, a basis of practically oriented historical materialism of the cynical variety, and the only thing left to politicians is to push ahead with adapting man to the new technology.
There is a fundamental philosophy here, which says: living means functioning, living means working, living means participation in capitalist competition.
So really only private entrepreneurs are living.
There is also the implied promise that the information society will open up these delights to more people, but I think Wim van Velzen was right here when he put the question another way, from the standpoint of the socially disadvantaged.
I think it needs to be put even more radically - as a question of power and supremacy relationships and the new opportunities for social and political emancipation, a question which is linked to the new technology and the new organizational concepts it has produced.
If we picture the information society, without any advance preparation, impacting on our present hour-glass society, where insecurity and the downward differentiation of wages are affecting more and more groups in society, then we get the effect of a huge new proletariat which has to be entertained by 'tititainment' , as they say nowadays, a petit bourgeoisie of passive users and a new nomenklatura who hold the power and are the masters of the game.
Secondly, in a situation where communication is taking on totally new dimensions as a result of the creation of virtual realities and communities, we have the two sides of one coin, the culture industry, bringing passivity to the masses in the guise of activity, and the secret services, centralizing relevant information and screening information as a way of activating the elite, and this is made worse rather than better by the information society.
We in this House have very often criticized the Commission's piecemeal tactics in the past.
Here we see something of those tactics surviving.
Mr Bangemann has already promised this House that he will do better.
There is to be a framework directive.
The report by the high-level group of experts suggests that the possibility exists of a more comprehensive approach.
The action plan we have been promised will, we hope, mark the end of this onesided procedure.
The role of government, too, requires discussion: is it to function as a residual parameter or is it to become a leader of innovation?
We need greater clarification of what might be fair methods of standardization, whereby it would not be just to those economic groups which exert the most pressure that are able to impose their interests as general standards.
We need to overcome the previous lack of synchronization between technological, entrepreneurial and regulatory development, which time and again has thrown away opportunities for planning, and, if I may just add, ceterum censeo : the overdue socio-ecological reconstruction of Europe's societies must not be put off any longer.
Even the possible transition to the information society cannot offer the slightest excuse for doing so.
