Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not always share Mr Nassauer's views, but on this occasion I have to agree with him entirely.
It is indeed one of the most shameful results of the Dublin summit - and the fault not of the Irish presidency, in my opinion, but rather of the obstructive approach on the part of certain Member State governments - that ringing declarations are still being made about Europol as the body which is about to crack organized crime in Europe.
The fact is that, apart from the ringing declarations, there is no movement at all on Europol.
Europol was supposed to be the magic solution for combating drug-related crime.
But is Europol combating drugrelated crime?
No.
Europol was supposed to be the magic solution for combating crime involving nuclear materials - an issue, I might add, which has completely disappeared from public debate.
Is it the case that nuclear materials are no longer being smuggled in Europe?
Probably not, because it is no longer election time in Germany.
It was said at the last summit in Dublin that Europol was to be an instrument for combating the sexual abuse of children, and that action in that area was urgently needed.
But no action is being taken.
We in Parliament have long been aware that in the Member States, the reservations over national sovereignty - and that is ultimately what is at issue - are more important than taking effective action against crime at European level.
The members of our group have no hope of a change of attitude in the Council of Ministers or on the part of the Member State governments.
It is to you that we look, Mr President of the Commission.
You ought to be able to take the initiative, for example by asking the Member States to make operational resources available to your Commission departments which are responsible for third-pillar matters, so that they at least could function effectively.
I am thinking of UCLAF, the anti-fraud unit, which could be much more active in tackling organized crime.
If for once the Commission - instead of taking time off to celebrate apparent decisions at summit meetings, which were not really decisions at all - could decide to call on the Member State governments to put deeds before words at long last in the fight against organized crime, then you could be sure, Mr Santer, that we would applaud you.
But there will be no applause if you continually issue the kind of statements in which you mention all the things which have been decided but not actually implemented.
Be more courageous, and you will have Parliament on your side.
