Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I appeal to you to discuss this matter a little more calmly and to try to differentiate between what we agree on, namely to ban human cloning, and what we perhaps do not yet agree on, namely our position on other cloning in nature.
When I listened to the Commissioner a moment ago, I was rather taken aback to hear her refer to a surprise result.
For if we were honest, we would admit that of course we realised long ago that we would be facing this situation one day.
This is a clear sign that there is no dialogue between the political and the research level.
But we must have one in future.
Our task, your task, Mrs Cresson, and ours as the European Parliament is to discuss this matter with the researchers: what do we want, what is the purpose of research, what is the ethical responsibility of research in our society?
And that is just what we are discussing today.
That is why I am convinced that we need to have a world-wide moratorium on the cloning of animals, and that does not mean I am convinced that there will be no more cloning of animals.
Nature does it by itself.
Nature reproduces itself asexually and clones itself without our intervention.
I am also convinced that in individual cases cloning can be ethically valuable and very important for people; but we must define the limits of the usefulness of experiments.
We must clearly define where they could be useful to humans.
To what extent are they morally and ethically acceptable to society?
It is our task to establish that.
A round table between the Commission and the European Parliament is not sufficient.
What we need is a world-wide round table at government level.
That is why I would ask you, Mrs Cresson, to urge the governments of North America, Canada, the United States and Japan to send responsible representatives who would then also have the authority to issue directives and take decisions.
We must be able to state clearly what our views are, what moral responsibility we must assume and where we draw the limits.
And then laws will have to be decided.
We will then have to pass laws that apply throughout the world.
At present it is not a question of saying what we lack in the Union but of saying where our ethical limits are in the world.
I ask you, Mrs Cresson, to assume your responsibility in relation to this question for the European Union, together with North America and Japan and the rest of the world.
