Mr President, since November there have been huge changes in Belarus.
My last visit in March opened my eyes to a change that had never been apparent during my previous visits.
The way in which this treaty is being handled and the lack of public consultation are manifestations of this change.
The reality in that country is that parliamentarians are being convicted, imprisoned and fined, although on paper they continue to enjoy immunity.
That is why I believe we must not miss the opportunity to invite these parliamentarians here.
Mr Lukashenko's reply to us is very telling, for while he was writing his reply, these arrests were taking place.
The free press is in a no-win situation.
The latest threat is that the newspapers - the only free voices left in the country - are to be closed down.
That is why it is essential that those measures in the TACIS democratization programme which are still possible should be implemented very quickly indeed and that access to them should be granted to all sections of the population.
The most difficult thing at the present time is to continue dispensing aid to the children who are victims of Chernobyl, and I receive numerous phone calls and complaints about the severe problems faced by the NGOs in trying to pass on humanitarian aid to the victims freely and without constant state interference.
I therefore ask the other groups to accept our oral amendment on this subject.
What is particularly disturbing and symptomatic of the development of Stalinism in this country is the creation of state youth organizations with some of the trappings of fascism.
It is important to conduct a dialogue, but the prerequisite of dialogue is the creation of conditions in which it can take place.
Another important point is that support should be given to the OSCE envoy who is initiating round-table talks in order to promote the restoration of dialogue with the forces of democracy, for it is also essential that these democrats be given due recognition from our side and that they do not become fair game for dictatorial actions.
