Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, a discharge decision and a discharge debate are naturally concerned with the past.
We are discussing and evaluating things that have already happened.
I think that any evaluation that deals with the past only serves any purpose if it also indicates what lessons that past can teach us for the future.
It is from this angle that I should like to comment on this discharge on behalf of my group.
What does the future hold for us, then, and what lessons must we learn?
We hope for the conclusion of the Intergovernmental Conference.
We hope for a positive conclusion, so that we can start discussing enlargement.
An enlargement which is not only a political decision but also calls for the celebrated strategy of the pre-accession phase, a strategy that was announced to us by Commissioner Liikanen and one where, we hope, we will be involved in the discussion and in the budgetary procedure.
But enlargement is not all that lies ahead.
We can also look forward - with or without enlargement - to a reform of the agricultural policy, a reform of the structural funds in general, and we are going to have to conduct a highly political debate on the financing of the European Union beyond the year 1999.
From this standpoint, the evaluation of the implementation of the budget may take on a dimension that overrides matters of detail.
The resolution which I hope will be adopted tomorrow is, much more than past resolutions, addressed to this House itself.
There were specific instructions to the Committees of this House to be stricter in supervising expenditure and the implementation and efficiency of the budget, and to make critical proposals where improvements are possible - from own resources through fisheries policy to development co-operation.
But we should not lose sight of the fact that the largest areas are the ones that cause us the most concern: the programmes, the Structural Funds, PHARE, TACIS, MEDA, development co-operation.
Strangely enough - and I now turn to Commissioner Liikanen and the President of the Court of Auditors - we are not at all worried about the fraud that takes place, or even about the possible lack of efficiency as such, but what does worry us is the fact that certain funds are not being distributed.
This is the big political problem, the problem we are going to have to examine very carefully in the future, I can tell you that on behalf of my group - that is something we have learned from this debate.
Because it is unacceptable that we appropriate monies to a budget line for political objectives which the Council and Parliament have decided upon, appropriate resources in the budget, and argue about how much money to earmark, and then a year or two years or three years later we find that those resources were never distributed at all.
That is unacceptable!
The Court of Auditors, too, criticizes precisely this same point.
Let me just give you a few figures: ECU 1.9 billion in the case of PHARE and ECU 0.6 billion in the case of TACIS at the end of 1995 -that's a lot of money.
You could really achieve something with that in the context of the strategy of the pre-accession phase if you were to spend it then.
And until such time as that money is distributed, we cannot form any opinions about efficiency and we have no need to concern ourselves with fraud.
But there is one thing that should not be forgotten: undistributed money is not a sign of economy as such.
We should not think - and the ladies and gentlemen listening in the gallery should not think either - that if we haven't distributed money it means that we have been frugal with the money they have paid in taxes.
What we have really done is to betray the political objectives that we set ourselves.
That is why we are going to press for that money to be distributed, efficiently of course and in line with the funding commitments.
But to split it up and then pay it out to the Member States in a few years' time is a game that we are no longer prepared to play.
I believe it was a German minister who said that the EU had too much money for development co-operation and not enough administrative capacity to make the best use of it.
If that is true - and in principle anyone might have said the same - then I see a very great danger here: if people think we have too much money and that we lack not just the administration but even the political ability to distribute it, then the result will be renationalization not just of finance but of politics too.
And with that in mind, there is one conclusion we are going to draw from this discharge: we expect that money to be distributed, efficiently and frugally, yes, but distributed as this Parliament resolved.
