Madam President, an old proverb tells us that every cloud has a silver lining, and today's silver lining comes in the shape of these three reports.
I should like to congratulate everyone who has worked on them.
We must ensure that we identify young animals which come from third countries.
This point has been addressed.
It is absolutely essential that we insist on this compulsory identification.
Everything required of the enterprises based in our single market must also apply to imports, otherwise we are talking about half measures.
The electronic identification system should be introduced, and I recently read, on a very prominent page of a prestigious daily newspaper in Germany, an essay on three identification procedures.
I must say that each of the three procedures undoubtedly represents a prudent solution, but the challenge at the moment lies in finding out which of them is best.
But without such identification we shall make no headway at all.
I might also add, of course, that such electronic processes can usually work out cheaper in practice.
Identification naturally costs money, but what about the enormous amount of money that non-traceability has cost?
So this is hardly the direction in which the argument should be pursued.
The matter is urgent.
We are, of course, in an awkward situation if we are saying this while Mr Mayer, on the other hand, is moving an oral amendment to have everything dealt with under Article 100a.
Commissioner, I am fully aware that, in purely theoretical terms, this will result in a delay.
It can last for up to a year, but here is my appeal to you: perhaps in this Parliament we might demonstrate how quickly codecision procedure under Article 100a can be implemented.
Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, I have no doubt you would agree with me on that.
We should set a good example here by applying Article 100a in record time, thereby also sending a message, perhaps, in the spirit of the Intergovernmental Conference.
The gentlemen who head our national governments get themselves terribly bogged down; everything takes such a very long time.
We agree on the substance; there are no disputed points as far as that is concerned.
I therefore call upon you to deal with these reports as tabled here together with us in a summary procedure under Article 100a.
