Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Lambraki's production of her report on the application of Article K9 comes at an interesting time.
Discussion of the report in our committee took place at the same time as the Intergovernmental Conference was discussing the following questions: what is happening with the third pillar?
What is happening with the subjects covered by the third pillar?
How are they to be dealt with in future in the revised Treaty?
What is to be transferred to the first pillar, and what must on no account be transferred to it?
If transfers are made to the first pillar, what is to be democratically structured, and how?
So instead of turning immediately to a topic covered in the report, I shall begin with a question.
We have heard several reports in recent weeks - it would be very interesting if Parliament's observers at the Intergovernmental Conference occasionally had an opportunity to comment on it - about plans to transfer certain fundamental areas of Community policy which Mrs Lambraki has touched on, such as the campaign against drugs or problems of immigration and asylum law, to a new pillar - 1a), as it were - meaning transferring them from the third pillar to the first, but using a kind of separate structure, whose purpose will be that although the result is Community law it lies outside the jurisdiction of the European Parliament.
Let me repeat that: pillar 1a) - given that structure - transfers fundamental, absolutely necessary areas of policy to the level of Community law, to Community policy excluding the democratic public.
That seems to me constantly to be the ideological background in the whole debate about Article K9 as well.
The issue is that inexpensive declarations are made, that we naturally need a common asylum strategy.
The term 'race to dishonour' has already been used here; I shall not adopt it, because it seems to me rather too harsh.
But the constant levelling down of asylum standards to a lowest common denominator, which ultimately amounts to plugging the leaks, is a strategy which is more pronounced in some governments than in others, although it is always present.
As far as the influence of the European Parliament is concerned - or at any rate this has been the case in our committee - both as regards Mrs d'Ancona's report on asylum policy and as regards the debate on Mrs Lambraki's report - the reaction of the Commission and the Council to parliamentary involvement is zero.
In the case of the Commission, though, I will make an exception for Commissioner Gradin, who personally takes a very different view and deals very aggressively with Parliament.
I particularly emphasize that, Commissioner: if I am going to tear a strip off the Commission as a whole, I must make a specific exception for the democratically inclined Commissioners.
When we come to immigration and the drugs control policy, we have virtually the same situation: our debate always takes the same form.
We need joint action, nobody disputes that.
Situations exist which are no longer within the power of the Nation States of the European Union to control, nobody disputes that.
The European Union is the level, the organizational form, within which we can cooperate most efficiently and come to grips with the problems most effectively.
Nobody disputes that, either.
The phenomenon whereby, in the course of the communitization of these areas of policy, the national parliaments are increasingly being excluded from the legislative process and from the process of control over the new organizations arising in this area is one side of the coin; and the non-transfer of democratic control and legislative powers to the European Parliament is the other side.
This is creating a democracy shortfall in the European Union, which will take on dangerous dimensions unless swift and energetic action is taken to put a stop to it.
Well, unfortunately, we have to say that we would gladly do that, but we don't have the power.
So Mrs Lambraki's report comes at a very interesting time.
We are now considering a report which, we know, describes machinery - the machinery of Article K9 - which, in conjunction with Article 110 of the Community Treaty could result in all these areas of policy - asylum, immigration, third-country nationals, the campaign against drugs and international fraud - all being transferred to the first pillar.
But the trouble is that the report we are adopting here today may, at the time we adopt it, already have been overtaken by other considerations at the Intergovernmental Conference and the Council of Ministers.
We may have our suspicions of that, though officially we know nothing at all, because this circumstance is the best proof that the question of the organization of policy around the subject areas can really only be described now as a bigger and bigger, more and more dangerous dedemocratization of policy in the European Union.
Mrs Lambraki's report points out these phenomena and highlights ways in which things could be changed, but comes at a time when things may already have moved on and, to some extent, bypassed the European Parliament.
That is the really regrettable feature of today's debate.
