Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, during the debate over the last few weeks, we have become acquainted with a great many extreme positions, and it will undoubtedly be the case again this evening that these extreme positions clash with one another.
At the beginning of my speech, therefore, I should like to introduce a somewhat more conciliatory tone.
I am myself a so-called conventional medical practitioner.
I underwent medical training and - to the extent that my time allows - I still work in the field of conventional medicine.
I am sure that there will be general agreement, as a number of colleagues have pointed out, that conventional medicine has made tremendous advances over the last few decades and helps many people.
On the other hand, we have to recognize the fact - and I know this from practical experience - that many people do not find what they are looking for in conventional medicine.
Especially when they are suffering from chronic illnesses or long-term health disorders, many people turn to so-called non-conventional therapies.
There is, of course, a reason for this.
Like many other colleagues, I believe that the vast majority of these therapies have absolutely no effect, other than that of a placebo.
Nevertheless, people do turn to them.
I believe that the reason for this is, above all, that therapists and other practitioners of non-conventional medicine listen to people.
They perform a function that clearly no one else in society fulfils.
We cannot blame this on doctors alone, since because of the billing system, because of the costs, doctors are not always able to take as long with their patients as is perhaps necessary.
This is a reproach to society as a whole.
The decline of the family, perhaps in some ways also the increased detachment from the Church, are leading to the disappearance of traditional structures which once ensured that people always had someone to listen to them.
In some countries of the European Union there are non-medical and similar types of practitioners, and in others there are not.
Perhaps the fact that there are no non-medical practitioners as such in Italy has something to do with the fact that this need is catered for by other mechanisms in that country.
I do not know, and it is very difficult for us to judge the matter this evening.
I am merely offering food for thought.
We should not simply believe that everything about conventional medicine is perfect, but should give some thought to the reasons why people turn to non-conventional medicine.
Nevertheless, my group has serious problems with Mr Lannoye's report in its present form.
I have long endeavoured to reconcile the different positions that exist in Parliament in some way.
However, there is a key problem which we cannot get round, even with the best of compromise proposals.
On the one hand, Mr Lannoye's report seeks the greatest possible freedom of choice for patients and therapists.
On the other, it seeks the greatest possible safety - and therein lies the problem.
It transpires that certain therapies have proven effects which can be scientifically verified.
I am greatly in favour of promoting these therapies and their use by doctors.
However, there are other therapies which, by their very nature, are not susceptible to basic scientific verification.
The user believes that a therapy helps.
Indeed, he is convinced of the fact.
But a third party cannot verify this in accordance with scientific principles.
The question is: how, in such circumstances, does one establish the border between use and abuse?
How, for example, does one pursue an action for damages, if objective verification is impossible?
I believe we must consider this very carefully, not least because some non-medical practitioners in Germany and other countries maintain that it could be dangerous for Europe to lay down strict criteria, since that could lead to them no longer being able to practise in their own country as before.
We also receive critical letters from users of non-conventional medicine telling us that it is better to leave well alone.
The question of subsidiarity must also be considered in this respect.
I believe that all these reasons should lead us not to adopt Mr Lannoye's report in its present form.
This is not a rejection of so-called gentle medicine.
It is a rejection of what has so far been an inadequate attempt to harmonize it at European level.
