Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Institutional Affairs is unanimous in presenting three essentially points to the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
I am pleased to say that two of them have been taken into consideration.
The rapporteur has now distanced herself very vehemently from one of them, much to my regret.
The two points concern the powers of the European Court of Justice.
Firstly, an appeal to national parliaments to make their ratification dependent upon powers for the Court of Justice, and secondly, an urgent appeal to the Council not to leave examination of the powers of the Court of Justice for a year, but to do so immediately.
A third point concerns a defect which was not mentioned in Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi's report on behalf of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, namely the absence of the minimum constitutional requirements for the operation of such extradition requests.
It may not be known to some, but it is an incredible fact, that the most primitive legal guarantees of civil rights provided in every criminal code - the right to a lawyer, a right to instruction on the law, trial dates - are not provided in these national extradition procedures.
That means that citizens can be held for months without a trial date, and without an investigation of arrest, and there have been no attempts by the Council to reach an agreement.
I have the utmost regret that the rapporteur has distanced herself from this.
This Parliament has always been an advocate for two objectives: the intensification of cooperation in Europe, and the creation of a European democracy with basic and civil rights.
The way in which Parliament conducts itself in a disagreement is important, and such a disagreement between intensified cooperation - which we welcome - and civil rights is the case here.
The rapporteur has simply pointed out that a number of obstacles have been removed here.
That is one view of things, and obviously we welcome it when obstacles in the way of the extradition process between EU states are removed.
But it is important to keep a close watch lest these obstacles represent constitutional safeguards for the citizen.
This not a matter of a few administrative obstacles.
It concerns, for example, the prohibition of extradition if the crime is not punishable in one's own country, prohibition of extradition of one's own citizens, or a prohibition of extradition to third countries, without reference to the first country.
All these so-called obstacles represent substantial civil rights.
I think it is right to question these obstacles as part of an intensification of European cooperation, but - and this 'but' is absolute - uniquely where legal safeguards and legal competency are being created at a European level.
We are facing a conflict which is very, very important.
I think that if we do not stop centralization in some areas, particularly concerning internal security, and demolishing national civil rights and democratic standards in the process, without recreating them simultaneously at European level, then we cause a deep conflict in this issue of European integration.
I appeal to you, therefore, to support this resolution - which is also supported in the main by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs - for minimum guarantees in extradition procedures.
My parliamentary group will not vote for this report, for the reasons given.
