Madam President, in the context of eastward enlargement, this report has a very special significance.
It is an expression of the urgency of change in the funding of both cross-border and interregional cooperation in the Baltic and Mediterranean regions.
The situation in the Euroregions, the fact that money earmarked for cross-border cooperation can practically only be spent on assistance to immediate frontier zones on our side of the border, is intolerable.
Trust that has been painstakingly built up and successes that have been wrung from a vast number of joint talks on the development of projects are all in vain if the projects cannot be financed from one fund.
That is why the jewel in the crown of this report is that it provides for the possibility of financing from a common fund not only joint interregional cooperation projects but also those in the domain of cross-border cooperation.
We have agreed that the Greens will withdraw their amendment, because point 4 is an adequate means of presenting this request to the Commission.
Speed is now of the essence if the hopes of the regions are not to be dashed.
The Commission acts and implements these things.
It could already be promoting pilot schemes during the current programming period to test a joint financing and evaluation system.
The 1994 Schroedter report gives it scope to do that, and I hope the Commission will respond very rapidly.
Our perennial problem is that money flows indirectly into the coffers of the central authorities.
This call for a common fund offers a means of ensuring that the money can really be administered in the Euroregions from now on.
Clear steps are being taken here to foil and preclude attempts by central administrations to misappropriate funds for their own purposes.
The Commission is also called upon to ensure that this abuse is not continued in the current programmes.
It is truly a matter of creating cross-border links between villages and towns, overcoming divisive factors and restoring bridges destroyed during the wars.
Nowhere is the idea of a 'fortress Europe' so tangible as at the external borders.
The Schengen rules are a huge obstacle to cooperation in the Euroregions.
It is down to the courage of local authorities that projects are nevertheless possible.
The theatre island in Guben, on the River Neisse, had not been used for 50 years until a concrete bridge enabled the inhabitants of Guben and Gubin to hold a Festival of Europe there together.
These are opportunities for Europe.
Above all, an open Europe requires political will at all levels.
