Madam President, giving the European Union the ability to act, and hence the ability to expand, was one of the primary tasks of this Intergovernmental Conference, and the Dutch presidency - like its predecessors - did its very best to make progress in those areas.
But, more's the pity, the distrust between the governments of our Member States is so great in many areas that only limited progress is possible, and I should like to thank President Santer for his reference to Article 113.
If in the services sector - to take just one sector among many - we provide for three pages of exceptions in a protocol on copyright and direct investment, we are ultimately not so much reforming the article as reversing it.
I can only encourage the Dutch presidency to use this example to make it clear that a breakthrough must, after all, be achieved in Amsterdam, so that we are not worse off than we were before, with governments defending positions which mature reflection would show are against their own interests, as in the case of negotiations in the WTO round.
The same applies to policy on legal and internal affairs.
I think it is urgently necessary that the areas proposed by the Dutch presidency that are to be transferred from the third to the first pillar really do make that transition, to give us the ability to act.
And that ability to act must be underlined by an automatic transition from unanimous voting to majority voting, to enable us to take a genuine step forward.
I am tired of hearing political leaders say that Europe wants to combat international organized crime and then refuses Europe the instruments to do so, which is what has happened!
It can only be done by this automatic procedure, which must be integrated into the first pillar.
That this also involves the rights of Parliament is something I need only mention in passing.
The same applies to the foreign and security policy.
Some marvellous ideas have come to light here - I am not sure whether they will really give us more ability to act in practice, but I am sure that the possibility will be examined.
The second point was concerned with more democracy, and with bringing Europe closer to the citizen.
I believe, Mr President-in-Office, that you will last the course, with the support of this Parliament, and achieve progress in the field of codecision.
I hope that we shall be able to thank you next Wednesday for ensuring that this has happened.
There are a few adjustments needed, such as with the antidiscrimination clause and in one or two other areas.
Maybe there will be a moment of generosity on Monday or Tuesday that will enable one or two of these questions to be improved even now.
That could also include the right of Parliament to make changes to treaties, as Mr Schäfer mentioned a few moments ago.
I think that the great pressure brought to bear by the European Parliament in recent years has achieved something with regard to the third point, and we are arriving at a better social equilibrium.
The employment and social protocol is being incorporated.
I hope that we will also obtain improved decision mechanisms in this area and greater cooperation, than has been the case in the past, including codecision procedures for example, if the previous strategy can be sustained.
I also believe that we need an employment chapter offering genuine co-ordination of national employment policies.
We do not need any new European powers - just co-ordination, because differing or even conflicting employment policies cancel each other out because of our interdependence in the Common Market.
This is in everyone's interest.
What matters here is not the new finance programmes - they are completely unimportant here, we might just as well use the Structural Funds.
What matters is getting the mechanisms moving and getting employment moving.
That is the starting point.
Employment is a macroeconomic objective, together with others.
This will also enable us to overcome the problems associated with the ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
