Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, all too often in discussions I am confronted with the view that the European Parliament has too few powers, cannot make any real decisions and is basically not a proper parliament at all.
We know that these preconceptions are rooted in ignorance, but we also know that our public image will only change if we represent the interests of our citizens even more effectively than hitherto and are seen to be doing so.
To that end, the Maastricht Treaty gave us this new right of investigation, which has now been exercised by two committees of inquiry.
These two committees, on BSE and on fraud in the transit system, have considerably strengthened our Parliament.
Even a year ago, who would have thought that the House would carry a suspended motion of censure on the Commission for its scandalous mismanagement of the BSE crisis?
How would have said just 15 months ago that fraud within the Community transit system and the related problem of organized crime were matters that concerned all levels of responsibility and could no longer be dismissed with platitudes about the smooth functioning of the single market?
Both committees of inquiry have proved that when Parliament is granted a right it knows how to exercise it competently and purposefully.
We have been given a potent instrument here with which the Commission, the Council and the Member States can be subjected to close scrutiny.
In this way, things that were previously concealed are brought into the open.
Where supposition and unsubstantiated suspicion once prevailed, we are now able to prove which person in which post, by abusing his powers and neglecting his responsibilities, has inflicted damage on the Community or individual citizens and to indicate whether and how such damage can be repaired.
The crucial point, however, is that this right of enquiry is creating a European public who take an interest in what is happening in the EU.
In this way a two-way process is established, in which Parliament develops as a source of democratic control and consequently - or so I hope - the people of Europe gain confidence in the European institutions.
Nevertheless, if this right of enquiry is to be made even more effective in future, the existing loopholes must be closed and present weaknesses remedied.
To that end I propose the following five points: those in positions of political responsibility, whether in the EU institutions or in Member States, must have an obligation to appear and give evidence to the committee.
Surely it cannot be left to the discretion of Mr Hogg, the Minister of Agriculture, whether he justifies his actions to the BSE Committee or not.
Secondly, committees of inquiry must be granted a general right to summon witnesses, swear them in and impose penalties for infringements of the rules.
Thirdly, the power of investigation must be extended to cover the actions of individuals and corporate entities, even if they have not been operating on behalf of the Community or the Union, as for instance in the tobacco industry.
The fourth point follows from this, namely that individuals and corporate entities must also be compelled to submit documents; the fifth point is that committees of inquiry will need to have their own right of access to all documents of the European institutions in future.
And one final point: the secretariats must be better equipped in future.
Michael Shackleton and his crew often managed to do the impossible, and the demands made of them sometimes bordered on the unreasonable.
For that we give them our sincere thanks.
