Mr President, the directive on biocidal products, which we are discussing at second reading today, is a convincing illustration of the need for European legislation.
Neither at European level nor in the Member States are biocides regulated in any systematic or uniform way.
This directive therefore fills a legal gap and is essential not only to protect the environment and consumers, but also to guarantee free trade in Europe.
Biocides are active substances contained in products such as disinfectants and pesticides, as well as preservatives.
At present, there are some 500 active substances of this kind on the market in the European Union, and around 5000 products containing these substances are manufactured, mostly by small and medium-sized enterprises.
Following Parliament's adoption of a large number of critical amendments - some quite fundamental - to the Commission's proposal at first reading, I can now say on behalf of my group that I regard the common position as a successful balancing act, taking due account of the interests of all concerned.
Our group fully endorses it.
We believe that most of the amendments which have been retabled are counterproductive, and we shall not support them.
However, we are extremely concerned, suspicious and distrustful as regards one point which has already been raised by both the rapporteur and Mr Bowe: this is the problem which Mrs Jensen referred to as Commission declarations in the Council's minutes.
Where such declarations cover future technical guidelines and the inclusion of active substances in Annex 1, they can perhaps be tolerated.
However, they cannot be tolerated when they amount to an interpretation of the individual articles of the directive.
These declarations have no legal status for the purposes of the legislation, since they are not part of the act itself, but given that they are intended to interpret certain aspects of the legal text, they do have an effect on it in legal terms.
This is a form of legislation which is not provided for in any legislative procedure set out in the Treaties, and it cannot be tolerated by the European Parliament.
My group and others will therefore seek to ensure during the conciliation procedure that either these declarations disappear from the minutes or their content is incorporated into the existing legal text.
We therefore support some of the amendments, with a view to maintaining the possibility of making a statement in the Conciliation Committee.
Mrs Bjerregaard, please tell us here and now what is the purpose of such declarations in the minutes.
If the entry into force of such an important measure - which is fine in its present form - is now to be delayed, then it is the conduct of the Commission and the Council, not Parliament, which is to blame.
This conciliation process would be superfluous if we clarified matters beforehand.
Therefore, Commissioner, we shall be very interested to hear what you have to say.
