Mr President, the Commission has agreed to the authorization of genetically modified maize, although it has not been possible to dispel the doubts that exist with regard to health and the environment.
It has bowed to pressure from industry, and has sacrificed the consumer and health protection.
The majority of Member States were against the marketing of this product because of the risks attached to triple gene manipulation.
The results are ineffectual antibiotics, increasing allergies and chemical-contaminated soil.
Transgenic maize is a time bomb as far as consumers and environmental protection are concerned.
For example, there is a real fear that the built-in antibiotic resistance will cross over into human disease pathogens.
This could mean that ampicillin will be forever lost as a treatment for disease.
The Commission is thus accepting the fact that human beings will have to be exposed to disease pathogens without any protection.
In the meantime, there is now absolutely no dispute, scientifically, about the fact that foreign genetic material can pass into the gastro-intestinal tract via food, without being fully decomposed.
It has even proved possible to detect foreign DNA later in the cells of the body.
The question arises as to why these risks are being ignored, and why consumers are thus being used as guinea pigs by the genetic engineering industry.
The approval for the marketing of transgenic maize is a slap in the face for consumers, and you, Commissioner Bjerregaard, have ignored not only the health and ecological reservations, but also the provision of transparency and the consumer's wish that genetically modified products should be labelled as such.
Genetically modified maize is being palmed off on consumers, and keeping everything secret like this is contrary to consumers' interests.
This is almost like a kind of forced feeding.
By giving approval for the marketing of this product, you have irresponsibly turned yourself into the lackey of the genetic engineering industry.
Commissioner, we expect some answers to our questions today!
Why, for months on end, have you tolerated the illegal importation of transgenic maize?
Is the information correct, i.e. that you have given the USA an undertaking not to intervene?
Although the Commission is responsible for foreign trade, did you deliberately fail to take action when these illegal imports became known?
Are the accusations made by your colleague, Mrs Bonino, true, i.e. that in approving transgenic maize, economic interests took precedence over consumers' interests?
And how, Commissioner, do you propose to cope with the ban on imports that exists in Austria and Luxembourg?
Are the rumours true, when they say that the Commission will try to withdraw only as far as the formal aspects are concerned?
Why do the ten genetically modified plants for which marketing licences have been applied for not fall within the scope of the novel food regulation, and why do you want to leave it to the genetic engineering industry itself to decide what type of labelling should be used?
We expect the marketing of transgenic maize to be abandoned until all reservations have been taken into consideration.
The principle of taking precautions, and the protection of the environment and of consumers, must take precedence over economic interests, and we therefore want to hear your position with regard to the accusations regarding the marketing approval and the question of how to proceed further.
