Mr President, Mr Bangemann, the Commission is not always able to adopt such welcome positions as this one.
I gather from what you said and from a letter from Mr Fischler, which he sent to the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection a few weeks ago, that the Commission, like the European Parliament, is adhering to its many decisions and resolutions to continue banning the use of natural or artificial growth-promoters, i.e., hormones, in the European Union.
Their use is prohibited in the European Union for good reason.
No long-term studies exist on the effects on humans.
Scientists have produced very different assessments of the uses and risks of hormones in animal feed.
Nobody knows the effects of the hormone cocktails that are so often used, not just on the animals but in particular on humans.
When we consider all that, it becomes quite clear to myself and my group - and, I am sure, to the majority in the European Parliament - that we must adhere to our ban.
Let me say a few words on the situation in the European Union and what we expect the consumer to accept.
The loss of confidence we have suffered recently in the European Union in relation to food production, but also as a result of the BSE scandal, is quite incalculable.
It can probably be calculated for farmers and can also be calculated for some distributing and marketing organizations, but we cannot calculate what it means for the people.
If the WTO now forced us to authorize hormones, imported from the United States or wherever, labelled or not, we would face a further enormous loss of public confidence, and quite rightly so.
That is why I am convinced that our strategy in reorganizing the market in beef and veal and milk must ensure that we continue to prohibit any use whatsoever of hormones.
Moreover, we must evolve a strategy on how to deal with our partners in the framework of the WTO.
Mr Bangemann, I ask you to take the appropriate measures in the Commission to enable us in the European Union not just to present the scientific evidence offered by the WTO but also to look into it.
For once again, the supposed evidence of harmlessness that was produced has not been checked at all and we all know the old saying about ten scientists and ten different opinions.
The same applies to lawyers.
Looking at the evidence the WTO has submitted, I think we are just as capable of finding different evidence.
If we want to be sure of ever building up any kind of consumer confidence again in the European Union, any kind of certainty or conviction that we are ensuring that our meat and food is harmless, we will have to adhere to our ban on hormones.
