Mr President, the Commission communication, and consequently Parliament's report on the arms industry and arms cooperation, have come at the wrong time and are guided by the wrong principles.
I should therefore like to express the misgivings of the German social democrats on this subject.
There must first be an agreement on the concepts of common security and defence before there can be any moves towards arms cooperation of a kind that can meet our demands, namely to encourage the disarmament that will produce the peace dividend which people have been expecting since the end of the Cold War.
The communication and the report are geared to arms production rather than conversion, to rearmament rather than disarmament.
At a time when the world is waiting for conversion projects for the arms industry and for clear signs of disarmament, these documents equate the competitive advantage of the arms industry with the competitiveness and viability of European industry as a whole.
In my view, that is not what is required.
What is needed is investment in conversion research and conversion projects.
In the end, no industry requires such a high level of capital investment for each job as the arms industry.
We should be supporting greater investment in environmental technologies, civil technologies and new materials, rather than in arms cooperation, because that will not generate the jobs that we are led to believe will be created.
Moreover, I believe that there is a tremendous danger that arms cooperation at European level will produce monopolies which will then be able to dictate fictitious prices for defence products to governments.
Also, undertakings which produce non-military goods will be exposed to cut-throat competition, because subsidizing the European arms industry for civil production as well will give it a competitive advantage over such undertakings.
I also believe that there is a great risk that arms cooperation of this kind will clear the way for an expansive export policy, and that competition between the European Union and the United States will jeopardize the adoption of a restrictive arms export policy in the EU.
In my view, therefore, this report fails to set out a forward-looking strategy for the European Union.
