Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, I am speaking only on the subject of Serbia.
I welcome the Council's decision of 9 January, calling on the Serbian Government to respect in full the results of the local elections in Serbia - in other words the victory of Zajedno, the alliance of opposition parties - to grant freedom of the press, to stop putting the independent media under pressure and to promote dialogue among all Serbia's political groups.
After one foreign minister of this European Union brought the whole of the EU's foreign policy into disrepute through his unnecessary trip to Belgrade before Christmas, coupled with his imprudent remarks there, my own visit to Belgrade last week was made very straightforward by the Council's statement of 9 January.
The opposition alliance Zajedno, the students and also hundreds of thousands of Serbian citizens have been coming out onto the streets for several weeks now.
If our foreign ministers had experienced for themselves this atmosphere of a country reawakening, as I did last Thursday night, they would probably offer even more support for this democratic revival and also threaten - and actually impose - more stringent sanctions on Milosevic and his government.
All those who think that we know where we stand with Milosevic, but not with the opposition, should pause for a moment and consider this idea.
Is someone who brutally suppressed a democratic demonstration in his own country in 1991, who ordered the attack on Slovenia and the war against Croatia, with the first mass graves in Vukovar, who bears the original responsibility for the war in Bosnia, with its concentration camps, mass graves and displaced persons, who was labelled the butcher of the Balkans by the US diplomatic service in 1992 - is such a person more credible, is he better suited to establishing democracy in Serbia, than the opposition leaders whom he has sought to deprive of their electoral success?
However questionable the political stance of the two male leaders of the opposition alliance may have been in recent years - as I have said here before - the last few weeks have shown that they wish to give Serbia a new democratic face, through peaceful means and with the support of the civilian population.
I am expecting the West to put at least as much trust in them as in Milosevic, if not more, since they have joined in an alliance with Mrs Pesic, leader of the Civil Alliance, who has campaigned from the outset against war in the region.
I am also expecting the European Union to urge Milosevic, or indeed anyone else who comes to power, to solve the problem of Kosovo at long last, because that is where it all began and that is no doubt where it will end!
Milosevic is no longer the sole guarantor of the implementation of Dayton.
Responsibility for ensuring that now lies in Sarajevo, Pale and Banja Luka, and those in authority there must be called to account: they must be regarded as our partners in dialogue.
And everything would be much simpler if Karadzic were at last put where he belongs.
During my days and nights in Belgrade, I sensed that the people there wish to be released at last from the stifling atmosphere and the repression of the Milosevic regime.
Commissioner van den Broek, I hope that the European Union will in particular help the independent media - and especially Radio 92, which is playing a leading role - to facilitate this democratic process.
It was at the time of the last Dutch presidency, and of Foreign Minister van den Broek, that the war in former Yugoslavia began.
Please, Mr President-in-Office, do everything in your power to smooth Serbia's road to Europe, and also to bring real peace to Bosnia.
