Mr President, Commissioner Bonino, I am not one of those Members who are in the habit of offering very profuse thanks to rapporteurs, firstly because it takes up speaking time and secondly because I firmly believe that all our rapporteurs produce good reports.
Today, albeit in Mr Whitehead's absence, I should like to make an exception and thank him very sincerely on behalf of my group for his work.
I thank him not only for analysing, criticizing and proposing improvements to the consumer policy priorities envisaged by the Commission for 1996-1998 but also for evaluating the 1993-1995 priorities, which enabled us for the first time to perceive clearly the targets that were set and whether we had achieved or missed them.
Some of the priorities have had to be carried over into the programme for 1996-1998.
It was not until 1996 that we debated which measures had to be taken in response to the discussion on the Green Paper on Access to Justice.
We have adopted the draft directive on injunctions at the first reading as a preventive measure for the collective protection of consumers.
I hope that we shall soon be receiving the common position from the Council.
We have also discussed the Commission Action Plan to promote out-of-court settlement procedures.
This measure will be highly beneficial if the Member States are prepared to set up impartial bodies for all products as well as for services.
However good the legislation we create at European level may be - and good European legislation is needed - it will be of no use to consumers who want to make full use of the single market unless they can assert their rights quickly and at reasonable cost in their own language out of court, or indeed in court.
As Mr Whitehead said this morning, the 1996-1998 priorities look like a wish-list for Europe's consumers.
In my view they are simply unspecific.
The important thing for us is that the Commission is finally tabling common provisions; these have not hitherto existed, which has denied consumers the full benefits of the single market.
The Green Paper on Food was announced for 1996.
We are still waiting for it.
It has, if we reflect on this week's BSE discussion, become even more urgent.
What is the Commission doing?
Announcing that it will bring an action against Germany and possibly two other Member States before the European Court of Justice for having excessively strict national legislation on pesticide levels in baby food!
Does the Commission somehow believe that parents will comprehend such a measure?
This Parliament has always insisted that baby food must be free of pesticides.
We shall be going on to discuss the report on consumer credit and the report on the Green Paper on financial services.
Both reports show where legislation is urgently required.
Cast off your diffidence, Commissioners!
In matters of consumer protection, we as a Parliament are right behind the Commission!
