Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to make a point of thanking the Commission for taking this initiative.
I think that what is happening here is very important.
This directive is a very important one.
The differences between rules in the EU are obstructing the internal market and the equal treatment of artists in the Union.
It is completely unfair if a British person who sells a work in Germany or Portugal obtains resale rights, but a Portuguese or German person does not obtain such rights in the United Kingdom if they sell a work there.
This injustice must be eliminated, especially in such a sensitive area.
What is actually the point at issue here?
It is to involve artists in the resale of their work.
That is not too much to ask, when one considers that in Germany, for example, artists have an income of around DM 2000.
People cannot live on that.
The market and market conditions are extremely tough for artists.
Half the sale price goes to the gallery owner or art dealer, and it is not asking too much for these dealers or owners to hand over part of the proceeds when they resell these works.
Particularly important here is the fact that this contribution is especially high for the young artists who are not yet well known and do not have so many opportunities.
That is why it is so important for us as socialists and social democrats that the 5 % rate for resale rights should apply to the lowest band.
We set great store by this, and by having this band begin at ECU 500.
There is another problem with Amendment No 57.
This concerns these narrow price bands which are being envisaged.
There are in fact only a few works involved here, and the auctioneers in France have worked out for us that all of 120 works are sold for more than ECU 250 000 each year.
So this means that in general terms there cannot really be enormous sums of money involved, but it is of course a great deal of money for the individual artists.
I also think that the Commission's proposal is a very good one.
If we take a work which costs ECU 110 000, then under the Commission's proposal or our own, the artist would receive ECU 3300; under the rapporteur's proposal, it would be all of ECU 1100.
Is that fair?
And do you believe that for the sake of ECU 3300, works will migrate to the United States, when you think of the cost of insurance and transport?
I hardly think so!
I would therefore call for this generous scheme to be adopted, without too many disadvantages being created for German artists, who are in fact used to always receiving 5 %.
