Mr President, it is true that I was representing the Chairman of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
Mrs Gradin, thank you for your reply.
I also believe that it is right to extend the group's mandate until the end of the year, so that work that has been started can be completed properly and in peace.
That is very important, so that we do not have to rush to have everything completed by the end of July.
It is also right that the group should be strengthened.
However, I must say that your answer did not completely satisfy me, and I would just like to say to my colleagues that this is not the time to be going into the question of the composition of this advisory group.
The debate that we have to proceed with today is a completely different one.
I myself have not always been completely happy with the replies that the group of advisers has given.
That is quite clear, but the problem is that the group has to take decisions, and that actually helps to obscure the decisions.
I should like to ask you, Commissioner, and the rest of the Commission, to think about whether the mandate of this group of advisers could not perhaps be changed in such a way as to ensure that the group identifies and sets out for the rest of us the main ethical arguments.
Because it ought to be an advisory group that gives us the tools to take the right decisions, and it should not be compelled, at the end of the day, to take a unified decision.
This would help to create transparency and would make it clear that we, the European Parliament, the European Commission, and of course the European Council, are the decision makers, rather than the advisory group.
The advisory group is there to advise, and nothing else.
And that really needs to be made quite clear.
Mr Cot has already hit the nail on the head.
It is also very important that this group should be pluralistic in its composition, and it is also very important that the European Parliament, since we want it to advise us, should be involved in the composition and mandate of this group and should also be able to talk to it.
This is very important in order to create transparency, which is something that we are demanding, and something that is so important, particularly on issues such as these, that we should be able to show the people, the citizens that we represent, exactly how we work and how we reach our decisions, particularly on such ethically difficult issues such as biotechnology in all its aspects - and you know how many of those aspects there are.
Just one final point: it is absolutely necessary that the group should be able to work completely independently.
This must be guaranteed, and it must be one of the conditions that we should examine very carefully, independently from the client, i.e. the European Parliament and the European Commission.
I have often had the impression that a certain amount of pressure was being put on the group, pushing it in a certain direction.
It may be that this impression was wrong, but it is an impression that quite simply and naturally occurred to me, as to other Members, and therefore I think we should do everything to ensure that such impressions do not arise.
