Mr President, unlike Mrs Green I believe that the new Turkish Government does give us cause for hope: hope that relations with Europe will return to normal, hope of further progress with democratization and human rights.
I actually welcome the fact that Prime Minister Yilmaz was able to achieve, just four days ago, a relatively large majority in the Turkish Parliament, with the support of two social democratic parties.
I hope that this caretaker government will be able, between now and the next elections, to get things moving and to improve matters in areas where the predecessor governments under Erbakan and Çiller failed to make any progress.
I have formed the impression that today's debate is to some extent geared to defending the former government, which is no longer in office at all.
We in the European Union must look to the future.
I am expressly grateful to the Commission for taking an aggressive approach to this subject.
As far as our group is concerned, it is actually still too early to reach a final judgement today on what has happened in past years and months.
The new government needs time to lay its plans.
It needs time to make its presence felt, to stabilize its parliamentary majority, based on social democratic and conservative support, to introduce a new electoral law, to guarantee freedom of opinion and to implement all those articles that have rightly been referred to in this House.
So it would be better not to hold this debate now but to postpone it until immediately after the summer recess.
The brief speech by the President-inOffice suggested to me that he basically shares this opinion.
I should like to urge the House to give a moderate opinion, one in which we have no need to disown the position we take, Mrs Roth, but one in which we recognize the opportunities the new government has and jointly endeavour to ensure that Parliament's influence is made to count here.
This also applies, obviously, to the withdrawal of Turkey from northern Iraq.
No doubt we all agree on that.
On this basis we should be able to adopt a sensible resolution and give the new government a chance.
