Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at this affair by the light of day, we can see that the Commission has perfected the art of evading directives or regulations that have already been adopted.
It really is a scandal that the prohibition on animal experiments, which was due to come into force on 1 January 1998 - and which in any case has been known about for four years and repeatedly postponed - is now to be postponed yet again, until the year 2000.
It is neither technically nor ethically justifiable for millions of animals to have to die, in the nastiest possible way, merely so that the cosmetics industry can produce a few more pots of cream, when there are already millions of little pots of cream and such like products.
The majority of the population of the EU rejects the idea, as proved by the millions of signatures that we have received.
Parliament is against the idea as well.
Nor is it acceptable that there should be arrangements to allow exceptions to the rule.
If it is not possible to prove in vitro that a new ingredient is harmless from the toxicological point of view, then we must simply do without it.
We already have enough of them anyway.
In any case, it is time we decided, once and for all, whether we should always carry out research into everything using animal experiments.
Something that has been proved harmless in animal experiments may nevertheless cause serious reactions in human beings.
This has already been proved on innumerable occasions.
It cannot and should not be possible to keep on and on postponing something!
Remember the leghold traps!
Something that this House decided on a long time ago is being postponed, by bringing up all sorts of odd arguments, statistics, the WTO and whatever else happens to occur to us.
Then you either say that we do not want such laws at all, and what Parliament has decided is all very well and good, but in principle we shall do as we like - at least that is what it has looked like recently.
But I reject this viewpoint, and I also reject animal experiments.
I like to use cosmetics, but not like this.
It is high time that we stuck to the decisions taken by this House.
That is why we were elected, and that is what the public expects of us.
