Mr President, firstly let me note that in her detailed report the rapporteur has set out the European Union's proposals for a strategy of cooperation for this region.
So the report scarcely differs from the Commission document.
Transcaucasia is important in several respects, we know that.
The Caucasus is a geopolitical turntable and at the same time it is still marked by its variety of ethnic groups and the chequered history and traditions that have resulted from the many conflicts in the region, which in principle could be resolved in modern times.
The region also has enormous raw materials resources, such as the oil reservoir of the Caspian Sea.
A way must be found of bringing peace to the region not through competition with Russia but jointly, by a strategy formulated within the framework of the OSCE.
But among the many own interests at play, I do not see the European Union taking responsibility for the region.
Primarily, Europe is expressing economic interests, which disregard the problems involved in securing a lasting peace and democratization combined with respect for human rights.
In Armenia as in Azerbaijan, democracy is not yet solidly entrenched.
Both states indeed wish to be linked to Europe in the near future and are making formal moves in this direction, but there is a wide gulf between wishes and reality.
There is no real freedom of the press in either country and political opposition is either stifled or banned.
Moreover, political life in Azerbaijan is still marked by clan structures.
The prime example is that the key government and economic posts are occupied by President Aliev's confidants.
Both in Armenia and in Azerbaijan kinship comes first.
Nationalist tendencies are evident in all sections of the population and there are no measures to oppose the traditional hostilities.
Georgia is attempting to build up a democratic structure through its new constitution, but there is one feature that is unmistakeably missing: there is no provision for the status of the two regions of conflict, South Ossetia and Abkhazia.
The consequences of the civil war have by no means been overcome through legislation.
So ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreements (PCAs) should be made conditional on a number of criteria, such as respect for human rights and the principles of democracy and also the willingness to endorse the Council of Europe convention.
The PCAs also include a Chapter 71 on illegal immigration.
I believe the provisions give a distorted view of the real situation in these countries.
Warlike conditions still prevail in these countries, which are declared safe third countries by this automatic signature.
The war between Azerbaijan and Armenia continues.
What we have is merely a ceasefire.
Without doubt, at this stage, when torture is still an everyday occurrence, there will continue to be refugees and this third-state clause is therefore a disaster.
The issue of the civil rights of the millions of refugees has still not been settled and there is no way one could say that the standards demanded by the thirdcountry clause, as defined in the agreements, have been met.
The peace talks are making no headway, as we saw at the most recent OSCE summit.
The success of the longterm OSCE mission depends on the support it obtains from the international community and the reputation of the mediators may be high in the field but also depends on that support.
There is no evidence of support in the field from the European Union.
There is no coherent strategy based on a common foreign and security policy.
That is why we should tie ratification of the partnership and cooperation agreements to a peace settlement.
The problem of the blockade would then resolve itself automatically, for that blockade depends directly on this state of war and could be lifted if a peaceful settlement were achieved.
But the attempt by the conflicting parties to maintain the status quo means that millions of refugees have to continue living in camps for years on end.
Whole generations are growing up in camps and I believe that even at this stage of the negotiations it would be possible to provide aid, to obtain improvements, to build a bridge between ECHO and a TACIS programme.
The first part of our amendment is very confused because of technical hitches.
We have distributed an edited version and I ask you to put it to the vote.
The wording is based mainly on the statement by the chairman-in-office of the OSCE summit in Lisbon.
