Mr President, I should firstly like to congratulate Mr Titley on this report, on behalf of my group.
He himself knows how much effort it sometimes took to find common ground, but the central message of this report - that the European arms industry must resist the hegemony of the US arms industry - is the right one.
It is not that we wish to see the creation of monopolies, which then dictate prices to the Member States.
Europe must be very careful to ensure that a common arms industry does not turn into a set of monopolies with a dominant market position.
However - and after all, this report was dealt with by the Committee on Foreign Affairs - we cannot talk about the arms industry and arms cooperation without outlining the general context, which I see as follows.
Firstly, there is the question of disarmament.
It is not possible to talk about the arms industry and arms cooperation without declaring support for disarmament - as expressed by Mr Titley - throughout its various stages and especially, of course, in cooperation with Russia, since disarmament has to be a joint project.
Secondly, there is the very important question of controls on arms exports.
Efforts are being made in this area, but in view of the conflicts in a great many regions of the world, in view of the large number of dictatorships which unfortunately still exist and which sometimes use armaments against their own people, Europe, which has already laid down a number of appropriate criteria, must ensure that these criteria are strictly interpreted, binding and, of course, applied not only to Europe but to the entire world.
The legal and illegal export of armaments to crisis areas costs countless human lives, and often results in Europe subsequently being forced to combat its own weapons.
Consequently, there is a need for increased controls, and ultimately penalties for arms exports, especially to crisis areas, dictatorships, and so on.
Thirdly, and this is another important point, we are not going to see a process of rearmament that gives a general boost to the arms industry.
There is a need for sensible conversion programmes.
A UN conference on this subject was held recently.
Europe can serve as an example in this field, since part of its arms industry has already been sensibly converted in civil programmes.
I see that as a very important complement to the common armaments policy in Europe.
It must be made clear that the European Community is committed not to rearmament, but to disarmament, as I have already said.
We are strongly in favour of European arms cooperation, but we do not wish to see disarmament taking place at the expense of Europe and European workers alone.
In this sense, we are unequivocally in favour of sensible arms control and sensible arms cooperation on European territory.
