Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee of Inquiry has carried out its task.
I should particularly like to thank the chairman, Mr Böge, and the rapporteur, Mr Medina, for the excellent work they have done.
There was a good atmosphere in the Committee of Inquiry.
Every effort was made to bring the truth to light, and this is also reflected in the report we have presented.
When we began our work, we were almost speechless at what we encountered.
You tell us, Mr Santer, that it could not be known at the time how dangerous this BSE disease was.
If this was not known at the time, then no measures could have been taken, and we would have had to say: we do not know this, or we take a different view.
But that did not happen.
Measures were taken, but they were not implemented.
The ban on feeding animal-based meal was ignored.
What did happen?
Animal-based meal was used as feed up to 1995.
One has to assume that all the mad cows went through the cycle of being fed animal-based meal, and 700 000, a million or one and half million animals at risk from BSE - we do not know how many - entered the human food chain.
It was said to us: we had no powers to carry out inspections.
It finally turned out that between 1990 and 1994, 37 inspections were carried out in the United Kingdom.
However, BSE was removed from the check-list, in other words tests were carried out on meat quality in the United Kingdom, but no longer on BSE.
It is quite clear that an inquiry report in 1990 revealing scandalous conditions in British slaughterhouses was deliberately mislaid in the Commission; it did not reach the political leadership.
So far, we have not been able to establish where it went astray.
Attempts have been made to discredit scientists, the opinions of minorities have been trivialized and the WTO has been used as a tool.
I do not need to spell out the details once again.
You have seen the report of the inquiry - and in any event, it is incredible.
And all this justifies a vote of censure against the Commission.
If we are saying that we do not wish to hold this vote of censure now, it also has to do with the fact that we know you are an expert when it comes to making announcements, Mr Santer!
You have made an excellent speech today, and it is somewhat difficult to send you packing after such a speech.
But while we hear the message, what we lack is the belief.
We want actions, not words.
That is why there was quite a long and intense debate on this vote of censure in the Committee of Inquiry, and I then made a proposal to suspend the vote.
It was thought that you might say today: this is of no interest to us.
Then we would have tabled the motion of censure.
The votes are here, and we have collected the necessary one tenth of Members' signatures.
But it was clear to us that you would make these announcements today, so we are putting you on probation for a year, and we shall see what is produced by these demands.
You have dealt with them today, and I have to say I am surprised at the generosity and also the determination with which you have announced reforms.
If they come, there will not be a vote of censure in December, that is fairly clear.
If they do not, then the vote of censure will be held.
Make no mistake, Mr Santer - you cannot, as in the past, pick all the good things out of Parliament, do what suits you and file away the things that do not.
Through this committee of inquiry, Parliament has gained a new degree of self-confidence.
After BSE, nothing in Europe is the same.
We shall have our say on issues of health, nutrition and agriculture.
We shall no longer allow an arrogant administration - which is still in place and of which you are now the political leader, namely this Commission - to think that it does not need to take any account of the proposals and initiatives of the European Parliament.
If Parliament's proposals had been implemented, if we had had a right of codecision when the mad cow problem was at its peak, then this BSE crisis would not have assumed such proportions.
We should very probably not have had to deal in this way with the consequences which may lie ahead of us.
So I would say that the point is definitely to use this crisis to move forward, to give the European Parliament the rights it needs in order to exercise legislative control over the administration and to ensure that the Commission moves in the right direction.
I am particularly grateful to you, Mr Santer, for saying that we must embark on a fundamental overhaul of the agricultural policy.
These have always been our demands.
If we proceed in that way, we shall not experience another crisis, but benefit the people of Europe, do our job properly and assume our political responsibility.
