Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today, and voting on tomorrow, the report by our colleague, Mr Fabra Vallés.
Until a short time ago, this report still bore the title 'Interim Report' , and I wish to emphasize that point quite explicitly and deliberately.
Now, it seems, for administrative reasons, to which everything is subject, that we are no longer allowed to call an interim report an 'Interim Report' .
Therefore I shall say it here: it is an interim report!
And nobody here should console themselves with the thought that tomorrow we shall take a decision and then the matter will be removed from the table.
It will be neither off the table nor under the table, and certainly not under the carpet!
If we examine carefully the resolution that we are about to approve, we can find plenty of hints to indicate how and in what way the relevant committee, the Committee on Budgetary Control, and thus the Parliament, will deal with matters.
We are agreeing with the committee today, before the summer break, for the sole reason that this will enable the MED programmes to go ahead, so that at last those people can be helped who are least able to do anything about what has been made a complete mess of here, as a result of sloppiness and mismanagement, and I would like to make that point emphatically here.
We want to help those people, we want to cooperate with them, and that is why we are approving this report.
However, this method of working, and this report, and everything that has happened in connection with it - without going into details here - give rise to certain questions in my mind, and not only in my mind, but also in the minds of the other members of my group.
First there is the question of why the Commission is still making the same mistakes.
Why is it that programmes are again and again set in motion, when nobody is in a position to administrate them?
When will the Commission learn, and how will that be demonstrated?
Then again, we believe that there is another question.
We are drafting a report about the report of the Court of Auditors, admittedly.
But the Court of Auditors is criticizing the Commission and private organizations.
The Commission has, for a long time now, had to justify its actions by means of a strictly defined procedure: it does so orally, its answers are published in writing in the Official Journal, and it is able to justify its actions in committee.
But why do we never hear what the others have to say?
I admit, naturally, that we have not always worked in this way, but does that mean that this was right?
Must it be right?
Does only one party have the opportunity to explain what happened, while the others do not?
This is a question that we shall not solve today, but I wanted to raise it, nevertheless.
We shall not let other people tell us how to manage things; that is one thing.
We shall consider carefully what we are doing, why we are doing it and how we are doing it.
We shall emerge from this whole process much more careful and very much more critical.
We have been sensitized, and not only as regards the dependence or independence of UCLAF.
This debate has shown us that we must reflect our own role.
We must perhaps be more self-aware, and we must be more critical of our own work.
One thing, however, is clear: the discussion has not ended, because we shall take it up again, and not only with regard to the MED programmes.
They are only one example, and there will be many others.
The price that will have to be paid for the fact that we give the go-ahead for these programmes today or tomorrow will be a very intensive investigation of how the Commission handles these things.
I should just like to make one final point.
The Commission has acted very rapidly in relation to outside parties.
I should be delighted if the Commission were to act equally rapidly when it is a matter of disciplinary measures within the Commission itself, if it were not simply a matter of just transferring people somewhere else or offering them early retirement, but rather of acting equally rapidly and effectively when there are grounds for suspicion among its own staff.
That would have a crucial effect in raising the level of the Commission's credibility!
