Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this issue is certainly important enough in itself to merit serious discussion.
I agree with most of what my colleagues have said.
We on the Christian Democrat side of the House support the common position and hope that the Commissioner will table a proposal for a followup regulation without delay, so that we do not find ourselves in 1999 discussing the follow-up regulation for 1998.
I should like to highlight two points in particular.
I believe it is extremely important to extend the aid regulation to include support for combined transport, because we all share the objective of moving long-distance freight transport increasingly onto railways and inland waterways and also - as the previous speaker mentioned - short sea shipping, in order to make our roads in the Community safer and to conserve the environment.
We also agree with the second concept in the common position and the Commission proposal, that of simplifying the way that aid is monitored in this sector.
However, we still have certain reservations.
These concern the need to ensure two things - and I would ask the Commissioner if he could give a guarantee in this respect when he addresses the two new concepts in his reply.
My first question is this: if individual authorizations are not to be compulsory in these aid procedures, how do you intend to ensure that the Commission will continue to monitor the aid with the same degree of care?
Exemption from individual authorization cannot mean exemption from aid monitoring, and I should like to have your assurance that you will make your staff fully aware of this.
Secondly, if individual authorizations are no longer required, how shall we ensure that when aid is granted to one company, another company, city or region does not find itself disadvantaged without having any say in the matter?
This is what happens in practice: competitor companies say that they had no idea what subsidies had been applied for, because the details were not published anywhere, and they ask how they are expected to register their misgivings when they only receive the news a year after the event.
That is why I believe, Commissioner, that even with the simplified procedure, some thought must be given to ways of informing competitors and allowing them to raise objections - in the interests of promoting competition, as opposed to distorting it.
