Mr President, I welcome Mr Baldarelli's report in its present form with the compromise amendments accepted by the Committee on Fisheries.
It acknowledges that the Commission proposal provides a good basis, lays emphasis on the legal framework of the proposal and accepts socio-economic responsibility for all fishermen who find themselves on the Italian vessels concerned.
But however explosive the question of driftnet fishing is, we must emphasize that we are not concerned today with a general ban on drift-net fishing in the Mediterranean.
The proposal before us simply does not concern that.
We have to keep to the existing legal framework here, which still allows drift nets up to 2.5 km in length to be used.
It is up to the Council to change the existing legal framework, after the European Parliament decided in favour of immediately abolishing drift nets in September 1994, following a legislative proposal by the Commission.
In that sense, the measures proposed here do not mean we cannot adhere consistently to decisions that have already been taken and we can continue urging a ban on the environmentally incompatible practice of drift-net fishing.
Yet this proposal can still be regarded as a step towards generally abolishing drift-net fishing because the restructuring plan provides for financial incentives for the fishermen concerned to encourage them to give up this kind of fishing entirely and for ever and therefore voluntarily move beyond the existing legislative framework.
We owe thanks to the rapporteur for not forgetting the situation of the people concerned when discussing environmental questions.
Let me just remind you that the regions in question are almost all Objective 1 regions, where there are few alternatives to fishing.
It is also worth noting that he has accepted responsibility for fishermen from third countries who work on Italian vessels.
We welcome the idea of restructuring the FIFG resources earmarked for Italy in order to implement the plan, but believe that the proposed timetable should be adhered to strictly.
Finally, and this is where we return to the environmental issue, let me place special emphasis on the Committee on Fisheries' request that third countries that fish in the Mediterranean should also be included, so that we can agree rules with them which at least respect the 2.5 km length of drift nets.
