Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
We entered the summer break in the hope that the talks under the auspices of the United Nations between Glafcos Clerides and Raouf Denktash would be successful.
Once again these hopes were destroyed - hopes that the 23-year-old partition of Cyprus, and the Turkish occupation since 1974 of 37 % of Cypriot territory, might be ended in favour of a solution that would make possible the peaceful co-existence of Greek and Turkish Cypriots.
These hopes were once more destroyed by the inflexible attitude of Raouf Denktash.
It is quite unacceptable for Denktash to call for a cessation of the membership talks between the Union and Cyprus.
It is equally unacceptable for the Turkish Government and the illegal regime in the occupied part of Cyprus to threaten annexation by Turkey of the occupied part, if membership of the EU by Cyprus should take place.
We reject with disgust and outrage the declaration by Denktash that membership could result in a war in Cyprus.
When will it be realised that it is high time for the use of reason and most certainly not of weapons?
The European Union's resolutions are clear.
Membership talks with Cyprus begin six months after the government conference: at the beginning of next year, therefore.
As has been reiterated in Agenda 2000, talks can be held only with the one constitutionally recognized authority, the Government of the Republic of Cyprus.
I would comment here, that European Ministers should not touch that point either, in private remarks made in public.
Membership should be to the benefit of all Cypriots, however.
That is our declared will.
For that reason ways must be found to include the Turkish Cypriot community in negotiations.
For despite the current failure of the talks, and despite the escalation of words, I hope for a rapid victory for good sense in the interests of all Cypriots.
In Agenda 2000 the Union declares its determination to play a positive role in reaching a solution.
It would be a useful contribution to make it emphatically clear to Turkey yet again that improved relations also depend on a solution in Cyprus.
We know that Turkey possesses the key to this.
