- Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the World Trade Organization's appeals panel recently presented its report on the common organization of the market for bananas.
Following the negative decision of the panel which was set up by the WTO at the request of the USA, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras and Mexico, the European Community went to appeal.
The report will be presented to the next meeting of the WTO committee for resolving disputes on 25 September.
I cannot disguise the fact that the European Commission is very disappointed with this report, because in it the appeals panel reaches the conclusion that several aspects of the COM for bananas cannot be reconciled with WTO regulations.
Amongst the measures which cannot be reconciled with the WTO Treaty, according to the ruling, are those intended to meet our obligations to protect the less stable economies amongst ACP states.
Banana exports to the EC are an important pillar of the economy in these countries, and a guarantee of their political stability.
The composition of the import rules, too, which were intended to further the marketing of banana products from the EC and ACP states, were not considered to be in accordance with WTO regulations, as were aspects of our agreement with the most important countries of origin which were part of the agriculture chapter in the Uruguay Round.
The European Commission fears that the appeal panel's ruling could have very wide repercussions on the interpretation not only of the banana regulation, but of a whole range of important WTO regulations affecting the obligations and policies of all WTO members going well beyond the banana regulation.
The Commission also wonders, with some concern, how the ruling could affect current banana regulations.
The Commission is currently undertaking a careful assessment of the consequences of the WTO process.
Having regard to the European Union's international obligations we shall then arrive at a balanced view of the content and effects of the ruling.
In this the obligations of the EU towards our own banana producers, the ACP countries within the Lomé Agreement, and the effects of the Uruguay Round on our relations with Latin American exporting countries will have to be given equal consideration.
