Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, modern biotechnology offers us great opportunities.
This afternoon we will be discussing the Trakatellis report on the use of micro-organisms for producing medicines and other substances.
I am in favour of being very liberal about this because we have to support the undertakings in making advances here.
But now comes the big 'but' .
When it is a question of applying this to human beings, of manipulating human beings, I think we cannot be strict enough.
Mrs Cresson referred to a consensus against human cloning.
This consensus still seems to exist.
But unless we are very careful, it will very quickly be eroded and I have already heard some disturbing statements made.
Just as in the case of seed manipulation, people will argue that surely exceptions can be made in many individual cases, so that in the end we will no longer be able to avoid an ethical breach.
And let me openly ask this: why should a society have the power to stop cloning once and for all if it is not in a position to stop parents in Europe from aborting their child if it is a girl and they wanted a boy?
This is intolerable and shows that we have already gone too far in many areas.
That is why I agree with those speakers who say that we must act very quickly and very strictly now, using every available means at European level and at UNESCO level.
What we are discussing now is not progress for human dignity but a threat to human dignity, so we have to take very strong action.
A final comment on the Advisory Group on Biotechnology and Ethics.
It has been said here that it should deal with the question.
If my information is correct - and this is my last question - the situation is that this advisory group will only be working until June and that it has a whole lot of other jobs to do too.
Then it is to stop for six months, after which it will be set up again.
I do not think we can allow ourselves that at this stage.
The group has to continue working and if it is to have a new membership, perhaps this can be done at the same time.
But then Parliament should also be involved in the appointment of its new membership.
