Mr President, Commissioner, if we go on stating the case for organic farming alone and treating conventional farming methods as obsolete, agriculture in the European Union will have no future.
It annoys me - and it is misleading - that many people constantly blame the nightmare of BSE on intensive farming: the most recent case of BSE in my country was discovered on an organic holding.
I would congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Barthet-Mayer.
With its proposal to include livestock products in the existing EU regulation, the Commission has taken a significant step towards establishing comprehensive rules on organic farming.
Within this type of farming, livestock products - essentially milk and meat - are particularly important, since this is the area of agricultural production in which the highest added value is generally achieved.
It is therefore crucial for the sustainable development of organic farming in the European Union that legal rules for this area are established.
In doing so, we must appreciate that this production sector is in its infancy, and it is therefore a question of laying down rules which enable agricultural holdings, the processing industry and the food retail sector to build up this market segment rapidly and without an excessive burden of costs.
The great majority of the amendments to the proposal tabled during the discussions in Parliament show that we are dealing not only with a complex issue, but with a very complicated legal text.
In my group's view, it would therefore be very welcome if we could manage to simplify the text to a large extent and make it easier for farmers to understand.
Any increase in detailed rules always means a costly increase in controls.
Using feeds from organic holdings as exclusively as possible is undoubtedly a basic criterion of organic farming.
Our aim should therefore be to ensure that organic feeds are in fact used exclusively, with a suitable transition period.
In this context, I am not impressed with the Commission's idea of imposing what is effectively self-sufficient economic management on organic holdings.
The EU regulation on organic farming must not become a battleground for ideological extremes, but must provide a sensible legal framework.
If anyone wishes to go beyond it by laying down special requirements, they must be free do so.
But these must not be forcibly imposed on everyone else.
In the short time available to me, I can of course only address a few particularly important points.
These include the question of whether we actually need a new, additional livestock units formula for organic farming.
The crucial point is to ensure environmentally compatible stocking densities in organic farming.
And this is guaranteed by the existing livestock units formula and the limits laid down by the nitrates directive.
I am therefore in favour of setting a global upper limit of two livestock units per hectare, in accordance with the nitrates limits laid down by the nitrates directive.
Clearly, the lack of precision in a number of places is also a fundamental defect of this proposal.
General descriptions and wishful thinking have no place in a legal text.
The EU regulation on organic farming must lay down precise rules which are also legally enforceable.
Otherwise, it will add to the loss of confidence among producers and consumers.
I also object to rules which are incomprehensible in practice, such as those on honey.
My time is up, Commissioner, but I wish to say that I can hardly imagine us laying down traffic rules for honey production, with signs telling bees where to fly to and where not.
The German press would once again have a field day!
