Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have been discussing the banana regulations in this Parliament for a considerable time and many of the arguments that have been presented ever since I entered Parliament, rather more than three years ago, have been repeated today.
The debate in this House has moved on a little, however, and I want to emphasize that for anyone who has not entirely grasped that fact.
In May we held a discussion about the first WTO ruling.
Our debate at that time was very heated, and so was the discussion in our delegation; there were even some who felt that the ruling was unacceptable.
The majority decided, however, not to support the wording that the ruling was unacceptable, and I made sure that the liberal group did not support that move either at that time.
So some movement has entered into the debate.
If you now read the motion by the Group of the European People's Party, many of you may be surprised that the PPE of all groups is calling for the Commission to present a proposal to amendment the common organization of the market.
Why has this happened?
Obviously it is primarily due to the WTO.
I believe we have no alternative but to initiate an amendment, because there is no further appeals procedure at the WTO.
Many may perhaps think that we could now offer compensation, but that is certainly not correct.
Those who have complained can make us a proposal for compensation.
If they do not do so - and that appears to be the case - then debating compensation is not an alternative.
The only alternative would be to call the whole WTO into question, but I do not think the majority of this House would want that.
Although the WTO could be further developed, social and environmental standards could be more strongly represented, a majority of this House would not essentially question the existence of the WTO.
For my second point I should like to mention the reason why we should like to see the market regulation amended.
But it is my personal opinion, and there is still heated debate in my parliamentary group about it.
I believe it exhibits important weaknesses.
This is not something I know nothing about: I have investigated the situation in Guadeloupe and St. Lucia, as well as in Latin America.
This is in no way a case of the good guys being in the ACP and European producer states, and the baddies in Latin America.
That is simply not so.
In Ecuador there are more small producers than in the whole of the Windward Islands put together.
In Ecuador 60 % of the bananas are marketed by small producers, and they particularly suffer from lack of access to the European market.
They are coming under even more pressure from the multinationals.
This cannot represent the intention of the initiator.
I feel, therefore, that it is high time for the COM to be amended.
The concept of fair trade as proposed by Mr Miller and Mr Kreissl-Dörfler should in my view receive greater emphasis, regardless of the origin of the bananas, as far as that is possible.
In any case, we cannot avoid an amendment, and I am pleased that here, too, the debate is moving forward.
