Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
The European join-stock company may well facilitate the change towards the internal market if one considers the ever closer economic interrelationship of companies in Europe.
The Committee on Social Affairs and Employment has closely studied the Commission proposal, including an experts' hearing, and I would like to thank the rapporteur particularly for resisting the pressure to produce an over-hasty conclusion.
For indeed we need time to reflect on the repercussions of the statute of a small European joint-stock company on labour relations, on relations between owners, shareholders, management, the labour force, works councils and trades unions.
We could, of course, have shown greater courage for co-determination and not for reduced participation, precisely because we were not under pressure of time.
The vision of a democratic economy, which has also been addressed, would have been important precisely at this time of economic upheaval, in view of employees' fears at globalisation; it would have been a signal to the labour force that Europe also values more than just shareholders.
If you will bear with me, Mr Menrad, I cannot refrain from pointing out a few inconsistencies.
In paragraph 11 I am happy to see that you say there must be no flight from co-determination.
But I as a German must point out that the German government in the last few years has taken two decisions which worsen employees' rights; one of them, for example, is the law on small companies dealing with co-determination rights in companies with fewer than 500 employees.
That is why I am particularly worried about paragraph 14 of your report in which you made specific reference to this matter.
We all know that most workers in Europe are employed in these small and medium-sized companies and I think that they are the ones who need special protection.
And as you also know, Germany has also made works council rights worse for very small firms, for those with fewer than ten employees.
In principle we welcome the study which you referred to in supportive terms.
But we do expect that the results will not only be made available to representatives of the social dialogue but also of course to the European Parliament.
I believe we should discuss our ideas on a future European directive and European company statute in detail and without pressure of time.
I urge that we keep national traditions but at the same time advance democracy in the world of work at the European level.
We are unfortunately still far removed from that objective on the threshold of the next century.
