Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, anyone who has to fly two or three times a week as we MEPs do, is highly aware of the issues of European air traffic management and air safety.
Delays are an everyday occurrence.
They affect every fifth flight in Europe.
Delays, longer flight routes resulting in extra congestion, and the increasing number of accidents and incidents are a burden on the European economy, on the airlines and not least on us consumers.
The fault lies with outdated air traffic management and air traffic control and anachronistic national systems.
All this has been known for a long time, like the expected doubling of the air traffic flow in the next fifteen years.
And Parliament has issued strong calls for a change of course on many occasions.
Without a qualitative improvement in the ATC-ATM systems, these problems will increase exponentially in coming years.
Even if we decided right now to opt for a uniform system in introducing the most recent technology, it would still take about ten years to implement it.
The solution we are seeking today must, therefore, be geared to the next thirty years.
That is why we also need a qualitative improvement in relation to changing the institutional framework of Eurocontrol, as discussed in the White Paper.
We need a uniform solution on a European basis, and we need it soon.
The technical options exist, ranging from satellite-based navigation to the use of telematics in management.
Nor should the financial cost of implementing them present any serious problem.
I, for instance, could envisage a minimum tax on kerosene being imposed specifically for setting up this kind of ATC-ATM system.
The savings such a system would engender would compensate for the extra burden on the airline companies.
The main difficulty remains an institutional one and in principle it can therefore be resolved politically, provided we want to do so.
Of course that would mean that the transport politicians would also have to understand that the airspace we gaze up at can no longer be seen as national.
Looking ahead to the millennium, I think it would do us good to have a European wind or even gale behind us to impel us to resolve the airspace problems.
I thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
