Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as other Members have already said, the human rights situation in Iran really is worse than it has ever been.
Women, religious minorities and intellectuals who venture even the faintest criticism of current policy become victims of blatant repression and brutal persecution.
A clear sign of the steady deterioration is that even the official figure for executions in the year 1996 has doubled to 110.
We know that this is only the tip of the iceberg, and that the number of unreported cases of people being abducted without any form of due process, subjected to the most cruel tortures and then murdered is far greater.
The latest examples of these terror tactics are the repeated disappearance of the publisher Sarkouhi, who was previously held captive in November by the Iranian government and maltreated for 47 days, and - as Mrs Lenz and others have mentioned - the latest increase in the bounty on Salman Rushdie.
Both of these, incidentally, represent attempts by Iran to influence the outcome of the Mykonos trial in Berlin, which has now produced clear proof that the Mullahs have been responsible for the murders of opposition figures abroad.
Time and again, the intolerable circumstances in Iran and the policy practised by the regime of the Mullahs and its secret service of exporting terror have prompted the European Parliament to utter strong words of criticism.
But that criticism is directed not only against those in power in Iran but also against governments within the European Union, and especially against the Federal Republic of Germany.
That criticism is directed against the unqualified commitment to the policy of so-called critical dialogue.
The time really has come to accept that this so-called critical dialogue has failed.
It has been of use to economic relations, and it has repeatedly provided confirmation for those in power in Tehran that their policy can be pursued with impunity.
As far as human rights are concerned, this so-called critical dialogue has changed nothing, and yet the preservation of and respect for human rights is the most important issue of all!
Mordechai Vanunu
