Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission, as a collective body, is obliged, under Article 130(r) of the Treaty on European Union, to enforce and implement the principles of precaution and prevention in order to protect the environment and health.
These principles of precaution and prevention did not enter into the debate when the decision to allow genetically modified maize was taken on 18 December, as we can see if we read the Commission minutes, as published in a French newspaper.
Only a few members of the Commission represented the viewpoint of the citizens of Europe, and spoke out in favour of taking health and the environment into account.
Much greater in number were those who felt that relations with the USA were more important.
That is to be regretted.
The scientific committees have given their expert opinions, and a hearing has also taken place.
It would be interesting, however, to know - and this question has still not been answered - why the British Advisory Committee on Novel Foods, which Mr Bowe has already mentioned, was not invited and involved.
It was, after all, this committee that expressed, very specifically, the reservation about the possible development of resistance to antibiotics.
Nor has it been explained why scientists from the USA were not invited.
They would not only have been able to confirm what Mrs Roth-Behrendt has told us, namely that the genetically modified maize is not permitted in all US Federal States, and specifically not in those where genetically modified cotton is already permitted, but they would also have been able to tell us that the IPE has also prohibited the use of genetically modified maize for the production of popcorn and sweetcorn.
What does it mean, then, for European farmers and for European consumers, when the Commission provides only very incomplete information?
I believe that this is particularly important because we know nothing as yet about the long-term effects, such as whether other plants could develop resistance to this crop protection product, or whether there is resistance to antibiotics, because we have not yet had this genetically modified maize for long enough to have carried out a study that might have provided evidence of the long-term effects on human beings, on animals and on the environment.
I think that on the basis of all these facts it would have been more sensible not to take a decision so quickly, but to find out, first of all, what is happening in other countries and other continents, and although it is a good thing, and an important one, that you, Commissioner, are now proposing an amendment with regard to labelling, in the context of the approval procedure for genetically modified products in the European Union, for this particular labelling it has come too late.
We are talking here about shutting the stable door after the horse has bolted.
