Mr President, Mr Lamfalussy, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Alan Donnelly has already rightly said, the voters have again given us a one-off opportunity to correct the neoliberal and monetaristic concept of the euro and the relevant strategy, moving not back to the fifties, Mr Herman, but forward to the 21st century.
We must and can now open the way to a Monetary Union within the framework of which it will at least be possible to resolve the major structural problems that were simply concealed by the previous policy of casino-style capitalism that was all show and no substance: the unemployment problem, the environmental crisis - when do we now hear anyone talk about the Rio principles and commitments and the Delors promises? - but also the problem of real and not just monetary convergence between our Member States.
We ought really to take the opportunity put behind us the destructive temptation to get 'Back to Brüning' ; we should be moving not back towards classical Keynesianism but beyond Keynes and into selective social and environmental restructuring of our national economies.
That will have to be underpinned by a common and coordinated employment policy because it will not be possible to build a stable euro on the back of increasing numbers of jobless.
Since 1994, this House has again and again drafted proposals that were then ignored by the governments.
These include the establishment of the Central Bank - French Socialists have again used the phrase 'economic government' but also the link to Community objectives and procedures.
They include changing the monster stability pact, making it into a pact that facilitates and drives forward a common approach on the part of the Member States geared to solidarity and employment.
It also includes a different interpretation of the convergence criteria, which have to be seen as a starting-point for a policy of genuine convergence and not in fact - and Mr Herman was quite right about this - some kind of mathematical obsession about the figure of 3.0 or indeed 3.00.
Last, and by no means least, it includes - and all credit to Commissioner Monti who has consistently pointed this out - an end to tax dumping.
We need to get out of this jam, that is to say we have to avoid getting further into debt and imposing taxes wherever possible.
The fact is that the taxation of assets and profits is increasingly being undermined by tax dumping, and a community that covers its infrastructure costs from the coffers of employees, channelling it back to the undertakings, may make competitive gains in the short-term but this will not last.
We now have an opportunity to change things.
We must take advantage of it, and, in Amsterdam, the Member States can make a real effort here or we shall indeed be moving towards interesting, that is to say critical times when a wealth of decisions will have to be taken.
