Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is one point that must be clearly established in this debate: the contributions made to it, today and previously, by members of the Group of the European People's Party on the Committee for Agriculture and Rural Development are notable for what they fail to say and so, basically, for the way they twist what they do say.
Because it was not the Commission that, at the start of these discussions, deleted massive savings running into billions; it was the European Finance Ministers and the Council, using any arguments they could find to inflict deep wounds on the operators of small- and medium-sized farms.
That is a fact, and we need to acknowledge it.
And, Mr Funk, you ownr Finance Minister also supported this policy.
So you should have the courage and the resolution to write a letter to your own Finance Minister, even if he is a member of your own party, and tell him that his policy is basically unprincipled, posing an unacceptable burden on small farmers.
This has got to change.
Instead of that, you actually voted down any mention of this fact in the Committee on Agriculture and I think that shows that a policy is being put forward here that may well be acceptable in Germany, and perhaps in various other States too, but is basically a bad and un-European policy.
Yet again, you are trying to cast the Commission as the villain of the piece, a convenient all-purpose scapegoat to conceal your country's responsibility.
I think that the underlying cause of this whole attitude is partly attributable to the fact that some - and I emphasize, some - sections of the PPE are fundamentally opposed to a radical, sensible reform of the agricultural policy, a reform that is not only overdue but has actually been planned for the near future.
Their stubborn attitude is intended to create the impression, not only here but at home - in domestic politics, in other words - with a big lobby, that everything is going to stay the way it was.
This policy is basically directed against owners of small- and medium-sized farms, and the social democrats cannot support it.
