Mr President, the cloning of Dolly the sheep has opened a Pandora's Box.
What can in practice be done with mammals will soon be done to humans.
It seems that the nightmare of human beings as a stock of spare parts and a reserve of children stored in the cold box is becoming a reality.
In cloning mammals we are taking the first step into Huxley's Brave New World.
To clone people would be horrific, a violation of human dignity, an attack on the individuality and integrity of man.
Man would be degraded into an object, into biological material.
This breach of ethics must be prevented.
But ethics cannot just begin with our own species.
Cloning animals is also reprehensible.
It degrades animals into mass products, living conveyor belts.
Live animals are regarded as mass-produced goods, as machines, which will give a boost to the intensive stock-farming that is so cruel to animals.
Today we are all talking about ethics and the risk of breeding humans.
But the individual and unique quality of life does not just begin with humans.
Dolly and other animals are also living beings.
We agree on calling for a ban on cloning humans.
But how do we as the European Parliament stand on the cloning of animals?
We must ban that too.
We must not simply become accustomed to the plague and warn against cholera.
The cloning of mammals already represents a shift of ethical boundaries.
The cloning of animals and humans must be taboo.
This insidious ethical breach is a step into a future that fills us with horror.
In 1993, following Jerry Hall's experiments in cloning human embryos, the European Parliament called unanimously for a ban on cloning.
Yet nothing happened.
The statement by the Commissioner and the position of the EU Commission are pitiful.
It has refrained from taking comprehensive political measures.
Today the Commissioner merely said that it was considering taking action.
EU money continues to flow directly or indirectly into ethically dubious projects.
Although cloning infringes a basic ethical consensus in our society, the EU Commission delegates the question of cloning animals to the Biotechnology Advisory Group.
What a demonstration of political impoverishment and eyewash!
The advisory group has even been instructed by the Commission to ensure that gene technology gains acceptance.
Society must set ethical limits for science and not the reverse.
Shifting the ethical discussion to committees that have no democratic legitimacy is merely at attempt to tranquillize the public.
We must not remain silent on the matter of the economic basis for this either.
To ban cloning while at the same time permitting cloning and cloned living beings is absurd!
