Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Boogerd-Quaak on her excellent report, but I would also like to thank the Commission for its Report on the Demographic Situation in the European Union.
With this report, the Commission has given us a document that shows everyone - Parliament, the Commission, and above all the Council - that there is an urgent need for action.
The figures themselves are nothing new; they come as no surprise.
We all examined these problems intensively in 1993, the European Year of the Elderly and of solidarity between generations.
At the time, the Commission published many different, helpful studies, and Parliament unanimously approved the Fayot-Chanterie report, which incorporated the recommendations of the Senior Citizens' Parliament.
So what has happened in the meantime?
Although no one doubts the urgent need for action as a result of the alarming demographic developments, so far nothing has happened.
Or has it?
Although the foreseeable changes in demographic structure will affect mainly the labour market, and it is urgently necessary to promote education and training measures, and above all women in employment, with accompanying measures such as child care, in the Member States secure jobs are being changed into casual jobs with no social security, training measures are being cut short or omitted, and the financing of child-care facilities is being reduced.
Unemployment in the EU is becoming an increasingly pressing problem.
Yet so far the Council has been unable to decide, when revising the Treaty, whether to include a chapter on combatting unemployment.
Now we come to pensions.
It is mainly elderly women who receive inadequate old-age pensions.
The demand for a minimum pension, which would guarantee everyone a decent standard of living in their old age, has been up for discussion for several years now.
Those Member States which ought to have taken action, however, have so far not made a move.
Guaranteeing health protection, medical treatment and health care is becoming increasingly more complicated because of the rapid rise in the number of older and elderly people.
So what are the Member States doing?
Almost everywhere they are cutting back on health protection and, as far as guaranteeing health care is concerned, they are making practically no effort to make the necessary provision or to train health-care personnel.
So what has been happening at EU level since 1993?
The action programme for the elderly expired in 1996.
The Council, in other words my country, Germany - and I am ashamed to have to say it - and the United Kingdom, have blocked a new programme for the exchange of information and the encouragement of innovative projects.
Parliament and the Commission had asked for the revision of the Treaty to include a non-discrimination clause, and the Irish Presidency, thankfully, included it in the Council draft.
Last week, however, we learned that the prohibition on discrimination on grounds of age and disability has been scrapped, and so I am appealing to the fifteen Member States to reinstate, in the draft treaty, the prohibition on discrimination on grounds of age and disability.
