Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can take up exactly where Mr Elchlepp left off.
Whether or not the committee would approve this report was in fact in dispute until the very last moment or, to put it another way, we were on the point of rejecting it.
Not because it had been badly drafted by the rapporteur; on the contrary, the report is a good one.
Not because we wish to refuse Hungary, the Czech Republic and Romania access to the European educational programmes; certainly not.
Not because we disapprove of the conclusions reached by the association councils; far from it.
We welcome this first stage in the process of enlargement, based on the education programmes.
We do indeed wish to send a political signal of invitation to the countries concerned, and in particular to Romania, since that country was not referred to explicitly on Wednesday in Agenda 2000.
We are well aware of the value of these countries participating in Community programmes - if they really do catch on, if they lead to genuine mobility, and if language training and educational cooperation really are intensified.
But the danger is that this could amount to nothing more than fine speeches and empty words - nothing but hot air, a political gesture ultimately resulting in disappointment and frustration.
It is of course possible to extend the scope of a greatly underendowed fund, but this will rebound on the present 15 Member States.
Even now, many young people in our Member States are being bitterly disappointed.
As MEPs, we receive complaints every week that properly submitted applications have been rejected because of a lack of resources.
An extension would lead not only to frustration in the new countries too, but would also significantly worsen the situation in the existing 15 EU Member States.
All in all, the result would understandably be more frustration and less satisfaction on both sides.
The House has repeatedly drawn attention to such a likelihood and called for a corresponding increase in funding, not least through the initiative of Mrs Pack, our spokesman in the Group of the European People's Party.
The outcome is well known.
If we now refuse this extension, the blame will mistakenly be laid at Parliament's door.
That must not happen!
What we could do - but are not doing - is to hold these three countries as hostages to fortune, so as to put the Commission and Council under pressure.
These programmes must be open to the CEECs, but they must also be placed on a sound financial footing.
Goodness knows, the last-minute compromise is no cause for celebration, but it does enable us to vote in favour, provided that the funding is increased as promised.
Let us not be misunderstood: this is not a request, and certainly not a plea, to the Council; it is a condition which must be met before the House will endorse the participation of these three countries.
