Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Christian Democrats support the basic lines of the Commission's communication on Europe's maritime future.
Parliament also takes the view that as one of the largest trading blocs in the world the European Union needs a competitive maritime industry in the long term too.
But the broad outline is a little vague, Commissioner, and not likely to halt the decline in shipbuilding or the use of flags of convenience by ships from European shipyards.
We both know that the meetings of the Maritime Industries Forum which you initiated many years ago have not come up with any major new ideas in recent years.
There are a number of individual projects, but it seems we cannot expect much more in the way of general ideas from the Maritime Industries Forum.
And yet we, the whole Parliament, believe that we need a new approach based on intensive consultation between the Community bodies and the economic circles concerned, be they shipyards, shipbuilding firms, suppliers, port authorities, etc., because only if the economic circles concerned commit themselves to voluntary agreements can we really secure a future for the European Community in the maritime sector.
Let me address another two or three points very openly and plainly.
On no account will there be higher subsidies for shipbuilding.
People are still hoping that the OECD agreement will also be carried through in the USA and that shipbuilding subsidies can be abolished in general.
The shipyards simply have to maintain or achieve productivity and competitiveness through their own efforts.
And when I look at a country that I know well l find that the mediumsized shipyards are very much able to become competitive through their own efforts.
The only means of helping the shipyards available to us in the Community is, for example, to withdraw sub-standard ships from circulation through more stringent port controls and thereby indirectly to meet the demand for new ships.
Unfortunately the Commission has not taken up Parliament's call for the EUROS register for maritime shipping.
Mr Bangemann, we must however reject the Commission's current policy of allowing the Member States to apply different aid systems since this leads to distortions of competition within the Community and even carries the risk that EU shipyards will fly the flag of another European Union country if, for example, the fiscal system is more attractive in the Netherlands than in another large Member State.
Surely we cannot allow it in an internal market for shipyards to fly the flag of another country that has a more favourable tax system!
Apart from the framework conditions, which have to be uniform, the Commission must also pursue a consistent shipping policy.
We cannot have DG IV preventing or hindering alliances between European shipping companies, which are urgently necessary to the survival of these companies, by pursuing a misguided competition policy.
In that regard the Commission's industrial policy must also encompass the right kind of competition policy.
