Madam President, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his work.
I believe that this is an issue which must be taken extremely seriously.
I find it very regrettable that the report which we are now discussing is based on Chapter 3 of the Euratom Treaty, on health protection, under which this House is only able to express an opinion but not to address itself to this very important issue through codecision.
As the rapporteur has already said, in recent years there has been a huge increase in the use of X-rays, of equipment using ionizing radiation, and nowadays very many people undergo examinations - routine and preventive examinations - which simply did not exist ten or fifteen years ago.
It is very important, especially in the case of preventive examinations, on the one hand to be able to say to the person: we shall gauge our examinations with this equipment in such a way that you are exposed only to radiation which is strictly necessary.
On the other hand, however, it must certainly be made clear that such examinations can lead to the early detection of very serious illnesses, and can sometimes be used for treatment which will remove the need for an operation.
It is therefore very important to work with great precision in this area, since X-ray examinations of sick people - and even healthy ones - can do considerable harm if too much radiation is involved.
We are all aware of a number of such cases which occurred while this medical equipment was in its developmental phase.
It must also be said in this context that both the Commission's text and Parliament's improvements to it place particular emphasis on the need for quality control in the hospitals and installations concerned, and for the staff to have appropriate training.
Here I believe that the text really must contain the word 'practitioner' , as in the Commission proposal.
According to the legislation of the individual Member States, these may be doctors or persons who have achieved university entrance standards at school and then completed a three-year training course, and who are therefore competent to operate X-ray equipment and other machines.
I believe that Parliament must ensure that health issues connected with radioactive material - X-rays - are removed from the Euratom Treaty as soon as possible and included in the chapter on health protection in the general Treaty.
