Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's communication must be examined in conjunction with the European Union's strategy in the context of the Fourth FRDP.
One of the specific objectives of that framework programme is cooperation with non-member countries and international organizations in the field of research and technological development within the so-called INCO Programme.
On behalf of the PPE Group I welcome Mr Pompidou's report.
I too believe that future cooperation between the European Union and the world's emerging economies should not be based exclusively on the purely economics-based definition of this concept that has prevailed up to now.
In recent decades, each of the countries concerned has had to cope with emerging industrialization against a background of very different starting conditions, and this has influenced their continued development.
This has been my experience, particularly in the context of our work in the Latin America delegation.
For this reason, I believe that every cooperation agreement between the European Union and the so-called emerging economies should be examined individually.
I agree with the guidelines proposed by the Commission, and I believe, especially, that an initial exchange programme for scientists, researchers and engineers should be submitted soon, in order to encourage future cooperation in the field of research.
In addition, I should like to emphasise that it would be desirable for a final report, containing an evaluation of this programme, to be produced by the end of 1998, which is when the Fourth FRDP comes to an end.
We must not underestimate the strong position that some of these emerging economies already occupy in the world market.
Moreover, we must expect some of the countries that are at present emerging economies to become industrialized countries within the next ten or twenty years.
Others, which need more time to develop, have a population situation that will lead to their becoming major sales markets, regardless of their stage of development.
The European Union must have a common, strong and positive strategy in the field of cooperation in research and development, because cooperation that is pursued intensively now will bear fruit in the future.
