Mr President, the post office question is urgent!
The input of Parliament with regard to the report or guidelines on the internal market for the postal services is thus important to correct the matter.
Our contribution is important in order for there to be no adverse competition during the liberalization of markets, and above all so that there is no social disadvantage, but that social security is maintained and the social functions of the postal services can be retained.
European regulation is in my view absolutely essential for the period in which the European postal businesses are negotiating over the problem of terminal dues.
We know that there are huge, competing, economic interests.
Misuse, which was previously possible, was barred by Amendment No 19 to Article 13, paragraph 2.
In a common market we need common regulations.
We must not use national arguments, but in the World Postal Union we must argue as a European Union.
In my view the legal basis for all future legal statutes aimed at liberalisation of the postal market should be article 100.
There was found little support from the Commission for this at first reading.
We are pleased that the Council has taken up our protest and shares our opinion, and we hope that things will go better at second reading.
We must preserve social security for work in the postal industry, and for this reason the primacy of politics is also important.
I think conditions should not be as they are amongst private providers.
We have just seen in the USA how jobs can be cut by UPS a universal postal service.
That must not be allowed to happen in the European Union.
I myself worked for many years as a postman.
I know that the social function of the post is important for old people and for underdeveloped regions.
There must therefore be no regional discrimination, either against the sender or the receiver.
Because there is a social obligation, so must there be state control.
Then there can be either public or private providers.
I hope that we shall come to a solution in the interests of the consumer and of the postal workers, and that we can then regulate the problem of final payment.
