Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again the European Parliament is addressing the question of a European road tax for heavy goods vehicles, and once again we have sparked off a radical debate about the whole issue of road haulage.
But that is precisely what we do not need at the present moment.
All that we need to consider is the contribution which heavy goods vehicles should make to road maintenance and infrastructure costs.
As the rapporteur has said, we agreed that as regards external costs, we would begin by carrying out a study of the problems we are actually facing.
So this question has no place in the directive which is before us today.
The same applies to the sensitive corridors that were referred to in the Commission's original proposal.
The present directive cannot address that issue either.
Is it really our intention - and I am framing the question somewhat differently here - to increase the price of goods and services in particular regions?
The people who live in those regions would curse us for doing so, because the arrangement would affect not only through traffic but also, of course, traffic to and from the region, so suddenly we see the whole question of tax revenue from heavy goods vehicles in a different light.
This applies particularly in the case of the Brenner route.
I fail to understand - and this is the only point on which I disagree with the rapporteur and the Committee on Transport and Tourism - why we should wish to allow special arrangements for the Brenner route.
What I would like to see - as would many of my colleagues - is a single solution for the entire Alpine region, in other words all the countries that are signatories to the Alpine Convention.
However, such a solution cannot emerge from the latest proposals which are being made at Swiss national level.
Nor can it form the basis for a common policy.
What we need here is a uniform set of rules for the whole Alpine region.
In my opinion - and I would like to be very clear on this point - special arrangements for one particular route are a nonsense!
I should like to conclude by thanking the rapporteur for his excellent report and for his commitment to achieving a broad degree of consensus in the House.
I should be pleased if you too, Commissioner, would accept all the proposed amendments, with the exception of that concerning the Brenner Pass.
