Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in its 1994 communication on an industrial competitiveness policy for the European Union the Commission presented a strategy for a horizontal approach to a modern industrial policy.
Promoting immaterial investment, improving industrial cooperation, ensuring fair conditions of competition and modernizing the public authorities are still fields of action of strategic importance to the competitiveness of the industrial sectors we are considering today.
In its resolution at that time, Parliament laid strong emphasis on the importance of this approach but also drew attention to other points; I want to address two of them.
The first point is that the guideline for industrial development is socially-oriented and environmentally compatible products and product innovations.
Secondly, we pointed out that besides the recognized growth areas, such as communications technologies, biotechnology, environmental technologies, in short hi-tech, great emphasis must also be placed on stabilizing and improving the competitiveness of traditional industrial sectors.
By this I do not mean old industries but existing sectors that must remain competitive by being modernized, taking competitiveness as meaning a high user quality and high environmental quality of the products in question.
In any case I regard the term 'obsolete industries' as dubious.
In Germany an entire branch is currently being brought into disrepute by the use of this term, which is ruining not just that branch but also the net product chain including its modern technologies.
But that is what happens when auto-liberal waffle takes the place of modern industrial policy.
Nobody in the chemical industry or the automobile industry dreams of talking about obsolete technologies.
Rightly so!
For they are the two most important manufacturing industries with their 3.5 million jobs and the world market shares they still retain, which goes to show that they are key industries for the European economy.
In the case of the maritime industry Mr Katiforis indeed pointed out that it too was until recently regarded as obsolete.
Only in recent years did people begin to realise again that for economic and strategic reasons its decline must not only be checked but in fact transformed into a recovery.
So let me just indicate two aspects of strategic importance to the sectors we are discussing today.
The first is the importance of investment in education, training and continuous training, but not only with a view to improving technical skills.
It is just as important to promote and foster the creativity of all those involved in the production process.
In that sense, social dialogue has a key role to play in improving competitiveness.
The second is the need for the sustainable development of high-grade, quality products using clean technology, i.e. not environmental after-care when the damage has been done, but environmentally compatible products and processes.
Only then is it justified to use the term the Commission takes as the heading for its communication on the chemical industry: an example.
