Madam President, consumer protection begins with the type of product.
For this reason it is understandable when consumers have show caution in past years, and also in the most recent past, in the consumption of beef.
If we had allowed cows to graze on pasture and had not fed them with meat protein - which also happened to be infected - we should not have this problem today.
Then we should probably not have had to introduce a sales promotion programme, because beef is a delicacy and everyone knows that; enough meat would certainly have been sold without this measure.
We now do have BSE, however, simply because we paid too little attention to the method of production, and also because consumers established no channel for monitoring products in the shops, as they knew where the meat came from.
Now the state has got to intervene and put the train back on the rails.
This regulation which we are debating today is not new.
It became effective back in 1993.
I quote: "The quality of beef depends upon the breed, the method of rearing the animals concerned, and the conditions of slaughter, transport and marketing' .
It continues to say that which materials are used, and which not, is also relevant.
I welcome the fact that a new version of this regulation is now pending, particularly if we are really given the opportunity to direct the method of production.
We do not have just this sales promotion, however, but an extension has been made within the framework of this regulation.
This concerns the support given to the tagging of beef, its identification.
This tagging, required of farmers as an obligatory measure and of the industry as a voluntary one - we then altered it in Parliament, Mr Mayer was the rapporteur - was accepted by Council.
You are aware of the decision whereby our submission according to 100a was unanimously rejected.
According to this measure tagging is now to be financed 100 % by the industry.
That is not contained in the Articles at all, only in the Annex.
In the Article there is a mention only of a requirement for between 60 % and 80 %.
That is for the sales promotion, but the 100 % is, I quote: "for information about the new tagging and the technical support' .
What has occurred here is that the whole logistic effort to be made by the industry in order to introduce tagging is to receive a subvention from the Commission - this would not be controversial, if it were not 100 %!
I asked the Commissioner about this today, and you have heard how he insisted on a 100 % subvention.
I approached him and, Lo and behold!, he was entirely unaware that this was a new regulation because of the introduction of logistics.
He will consider the matter.
For this reason I believe we must refer this report by Mrs Hardstaff, good as it is - and I congratulate her on it - back to the Committee, so that we can clarify this point and not, in a manner of speaking, force the 100 % money down the throat of the industry.
