Mr President, Commissioner, a lot of things have been said, so let me first of all ask a question.
In my opinion, it makes absolutely no sense at all, on the one hand to prohibit the production of GMOs in the EU, and on the other hand to import products made from genetically modified maize, such as popcorn, into the EU, in certain circumstances - and that is my question to you, Mrs Bjerregaard - because to do so is to render meaningless the votes of those countries who are totally against these products, and as far as the consumers are concerned it is just a load of eyewash.
It has not yet proved possible to kindle a deeper public understanding of green genetic engineering, in other words the development and breeding of genetically modified plants.
PR campaigns are not enough to bring about a better understanding.
Science and the economy need to make themselves more understandable.
This means taking into account the questions and concerns of the average consumer, the man in the street.
The possible risks of green genetic engineering have been overestimated, in my country for example, according to the opinion of the Technology Council.
The risk of undesirable developments arising from the breeding of herbicide-resistant plants is less than in conventional breeding, because only one gene is being transferred, under controlled conditions, rather than a large number of different genes.
However, things are not made any easier, for those in favour of the prejudice-free treatment of genetic engineering, when the new breeding possibilities are used, for example, to make plants that are adapted to pesticides, rather than the other way round.
This whole debate, including the issue of transgenic maize, cries out for more objectivity.
Transgenic maize, yes or no: to my mind that is not an agricultural question, but rather a question of competition.
Genetic engineering is not the solution to all our breeding problems, and nor is it the loathsome work of the devil which, once out of control, threatens our very existence.
Finally, let me just make the following contribution to this debate.
It is a great mistake to believe that, if we did not allow anything new, everything would carry on in as it was before.
