Mr President, I believe Mr Bangemann has been honest with us this evening, and we should be honest too.
The Novel Food Regulation was indeed a joint creation of Parliament and the Council of Ministers.
I pointed out the absence of any implementing provisions, not only in January but also in the conciliation committee.
Among those Honourable Members here who are now complaining about it, everything was crystal clear at the time, the Novel Food Regulation was the best of all possible regulations and it covered everything.
Well, I want to look not backwards but forwards.
I am grateful to Mr Bangemann for the fact that, despite the wording of Article 8, where it does say that the Commission may issue rules for implementation - Parliament didn't want it to say that the Commission must issue rules for implementation - he has nevertheless declared his willingness to arrange implementing provisions on labelling.
I believe those are important, because there is criticism here not just from environmental groups and consumer associations but even from the industry itself.
What we need now, therefore, is a form of words to label those products which are covered by the regulation.
I would once again strongly urge the choice of the wording 'produced using gene technology' , because 'modern biotechnology optimized by food physiologists' would mislead consumers and offer them little in the way of clear information.
Also, we would lay ourselves open to the charge that the Novel Food Regulation is a labelling swindle.
If the industry uses the method, then the industry should also have the courage to say so on the label, so that eventually genetic engineering becomes a hallmark of quality in the food industry context.
Which brings me to the subject of the 'quality mark' .
The positive aspect of the Novel Food Regulation is that we make provision, in Recital 10, for positive labelling.
Mr Bangemann, particularly in view of the fact that the industry is planning to declare everything not covered by the Novel Food Regulation as being free of genetic engineering, I would have liked to hear from you whether you are prepared to do as we did with organic farming, and now with animal products too, and to work out criteria to enable us to have positive labelling.
Because one thing has to be clear: we must not shake consumer confidence.
What we should be doing, at last, is ensuring clarity.
