Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by quoting from Karl Valentin: ' Everything may already have been said, but not yet by everyone!'
An unqualified motion of censure on the present Commission is not an appropriate political means of doing justice to the findings of the Committee of Inquiry.
The committee has indeed identified some serious breaches of consumer protection, but at the same time it has become clear that too little effort was made to prevent the spread of the disease, with its disastrous consequences.
Many farmers in Europe have therefore had their livelihoods seriously damaged, and some have been completely ruined.
That point has not yet been made today.
Meat processing businesses have gone bankrupt, because at times the trade in beef came to a complete standstill.
Furthermore, an unprecedented degree of uncertainty has been created among consumers.
This is a question of general responsibility.
In the forefront there is one Member State which bears a large proportion of the blame for today's debacle.
However, both the Commission and the Council of Ministers, together with the scientific committees, have also seriously neglected their duty of care.
The Committee of Inquiry has clearly demonstrated the inability of the authorities in question to take effective measures to combat the disease.
With our motion for a resolution, we wish to usher in a new beginning, so as to avoid such catastrophes in future.
Although Parliament, through Mr Böge, myself and many other colleagues, sent specific proposals to the Commission and the Council as long ago as 1989 and 1990, these have never been taken into consideration.
The European Parliament is therefore calling for a full right of codecision in all areas of agriculture policy, since effective combating of disease must involve animal marking, clear guidelines and certification in the production of feed, and also strict controls.
The internal market can only function with appropriate legal bases.
Through our resolution, the Commission is being given an opportunity to introduce an improved strategy for combating disease and for protecting human and animal health.
You now have the chance, Mr President of the Commission, of doing precisely this in conjunction with Parliament.
Finally, I should like to thank Mr Medina Ortega and Mr Böge.
Your work has been excellent and exemplary, and we have gladly played our part in it.
Now it is your turn to do something sensible with us!
