Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry, but I have to draw your attention to the position of the Greens again.
We could not vote for the report in the form in which it has just been approved, with the amendments, because it represents a very one-sided strategy marked primarily by the desire of the various European states to get at the oil resources of the Caspian Sea fairly rapidly and not to let their rivals get there first.
Anyone who has been down there and seen these heavily polluted oil fields knows that we have a quite different responsibility towards this region, other than getting at the oil resources as soon as possible.
We have the responsibility to establish peace in the region.
I see no really effective strategy in that direction.
Rapid adoption of the partnership and cooperation agreements, not linked to a peaceful solution, and a blanket demand for the blockade to be lifted make it clear, firstly, that Europe has very little understanding of this region and secondly, that this will certainly not promote a settlement of the conflicts.
When the PCAs are adopted and enter into force it will mean that a large section of the population, indeed several millions of people, who do not even live there any more cannot benefit from the aid.
It means that NagornoKarabakh cannot benefit.
Or do you want to give aid to Nagorno-Karabakh via the Latchin corridor, which would go against international law?
The PCAs cannot enter into force without a peaceful solution to this conflict.
Of course we must use all our funds and energies to help where help is needed.
But the European Union is not doing anything.
It is not doing anything to extend the ECHO mandate and build a bridge.
It is not doing anything about modifying TACIS and adopting social measures to tackle the problem and it is doing nothing when it comes to genuinely promoting a peaceful settlement.
We hear many splendid words, but there is no understanding of the real problems of the region.
We cannot endorse this kind of strategy, which may be well-meaning but totally overlooks the real facts.
