Mr President, this is now the tenth year of discussion and consultation concerning the Directive on the legal protection of biotechnological inventions.
Part of the reason for this interminable process is the fact that the legal categorization of this Directive as a singlemarket directive designed to harmonize patents law in Europe has repeatedly been lost from view.
Time and again there have been attempts to limit or even to reduce the scope of patent rights by overloading the Directive with rules which have no basis in patent law.
Three aspects of the Directive are under discussion: the legal, the economic and the ethical aspects.
Harmonization of the Member States' legal provisions in this domain has become necessary as a means of countering the divergence between the development of legislation and that of jurisprudence in the Member States.
The danger of further legal fragmentation must be confronted.
We need legal consistency.
In the economic domain, it is a matter of encouraging inventions and innovations, not of promoting imitation.
The competitiveness of European industry must be fostered, and European researchers must be motivated to remain in Europe, to conduct research in Europe and not to emigrate overseas.
To that extent the Directive is also a key instrument of European employment policy.
How and to what extent ethical aspects are to be integrated into the Directive has always been the real powder keg of this Directive.
This has been demonstrated again by a number of today's speeches.
Patent law governs the legal relationship between the inventor and third parties.
It does not govern the actual right of utilization.
Although patent law lays down that inventions cannot be patented if their publication or exploitation would be contrary to public policy, the fact remains that both research and the use of research findings are governed by other laws, such as the Genetic Engineering Act or the Embryo Protection Act.
Public policy, or ordre public , is defined by the central provisions of the various national constitutions and the statutes derived from them.
In other words, patent offices are not responsible for controlling technological development.
In the form in which it was adopted by the Legal Affairs Committee, the Directive merits our full support.
The vital thing now is that those who are aware of the importance, and hence also of the limitations, of patent law should prevail and that this Directive can soon be adopted.
