Mr President, Commissioner, yet again the European Parliament is being called upon to comment on the problems of leghold traps.
We have before us the draft of an agreement which is supposed to prescribe humane trapping standards at international level.
However, the draft has its shortcomings, even though we might be tempted to welcome the fact that after years of negotiation and deadlock a draft does actually exist.
It is difficult, though, to vote in favour of this draft.
If it proves necessary to reject the agreement and introduce a European ban on imports of skins, that will damage the European fur industry and, especially, the indigenous peoples in Canada who earn their living as traders in skins.
Anyone who knows me will know that I have always taken these arguments particularly seriously.
Animal welfare, in my view, is not incompatible with sustaining the way of life and livelihood of many indigenous peoples - indeed, I believe they are mutually complementary.
Our common aim must be to strike a balance between the needs of animal welfare and the justified interests of indigenous peoples.
In the past, I believe, there were two ways by which this objective might be achieved.
One was the conclusion of an agreement on humane trapping methods worthy of their name - which the present version certainly is not; an agreement which lays down high animal welfare standards and at the same time takes due account of the justified concerns of indigenous peoples.
Alternatively, if that is unworkable, an independent marketing system could be set up for the skins of animals trapped by indigenous trappers.
I believe that a result could have been rapidly achieved here if the representatives of the indigenous peoples had been involved in the negotiations.
Should the draft of the agreement be rejected, these points must be borne in mind during further negotiations.
Following my contacts with representatives of indigenous peoples in Canada - and I did have such contacts, Mr Pimenta - I know that leghold traps must be abandoned; indeed, they are being abandoned in Canada.
In addition, the right conditions exist for independent marketing channels.
But, in the long term, indigenous trappers and animal welfare organizations must work closely together and be jointly involved in the search for new, humane trapping methods.
Finding a substitute for leghold traps is the main task that will confront us in the coming years, even without a framework agreement.
One way of solving the problem is to improve the selectivity of traps, in other words to develop traps that can only catch particular animals.
This, of course, means providing trappers with better training.
Here again, and once again, I can only urge the advisability of taking advantage of the experience of the indigenous trappers.
Finally, there is one more question I would like to put to the Commissioner: what is the status of the ban on leghold traps in the European Union?
According to my information such traps are being laid only a few miles from where we sit - I don't know why.
Did this fact influence the basis for the Commission's negotiations with the countries concerned?
