Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on 7 February last year, 189 people lost their lives when their Birgen Air flight crashed off the coast of the Dominican Republic.
This is not the first time that the European Parliament has debated questions of aviation safety.
We used the occasion of that crash last year to raise the issue, and just a week later my colleague Brian Simpson and I tabled a motion for a resolution in the House, which was discussed the following week by Parliament's Committee on Transport and Tourism.
I intend to confine my remarks today to considering what has become of that initiative.
I can report that, 18 months on from the initial parliamentary activity, we have made considerable progress, thanks to good cooperation between the Commission, the European Parliament and the Council.
The Council has in fact accepted the most important elements involved, as it made clear at its meeting in Luxembourg on 17 and 18 June this year.
In our motion for a resolution, we called for a black list, and this has already been referred to briefly.
In my view, however, it does not matter what we call the document which cites the wrongdoers and their wrongdoings.
The Council has agreed to seek Parliament's approval on this issue.
And we shall be able to vote in the autumn on the common position approving such an arrangement.
A list is to be compiled setting out defects which have been identified during ground inspections of suspect aircraft.
I see this as an important step.
And the publication of a black list would certainly have a deterrent effect.
One thing that is clearly missing from the proposal as it stands is the possibility of also inspecting aircraft from Member States of the European Union.
However, the Commission has provided some clarification on this point, referring to the option of further amending Regulation No 3922/91.
I would ask you to tell us, Commissioner, whether any action has yet been taken in this respect, in order to provide for real control over all aircraft - be they from third countries or, in particular, from the European Union - which are identified as being in any way suspect during ground inspections.
We have also added a further point, namely that tour operators should be required to indicate in their brochures which airlines are providing their flights.
I speak both for my colleagues and myself, Commissioner, in saying that we wish to see further progress on this issue too.
In fact, many tour operators are already providing the information voluntarily.
Checks should also be carried out with regard to third countries, and bilateral agreements with third countries should be reviewed, to identify shortcomings in safety.
I know that the Commission is currently responsible for reviewing certain agreements, but this should be extended to cover all bilateral agreements.
