Madam President, the directive on toll and user charges is long overdue, and has been since the annulment of the first version by the Court of Justice in 1995.
The directive that we are discussing today goes significantly further than the first proposal, and I have to welcome that in principle.
As rapporteur on the Commission's Green Paper on internalizing the external costs of transport, I see the Commission proposal as a first step towards the practical implementation of a fair pricing system, based on the principle that the polluter pays.
The proposal would allow the Member States to impose differentiated user charges where this was justified beyond doubt in terms of traffic congestion, pollution and accident rates, and it would also allow for the designation of sensitive routes.
In his first draft, the rapporteur took the radical step of deleting the words 'external costs' and 'sensitive routes' .
My group agreed to a compromise - although personally it pained me to do so - on condition that it would remain free to decide at second reading.
Amendment No 1 calls on the Commission to draw up a report within a year, giving precise details of external costs and how to charge them to the various modes of transport, and to submit a proposal accordingly.
Until then, the only differentiation is to be on the basis of road damage and pollution from emissions, with reference being made only to the Alpine region, rather than to sensitive routes.
It is also planned to allow differentiation in the form of additional charges at peak times or at night.
Although the compromise means that external costs are not to be taken into account immediately, I am fundamentally optimistic, since what it does is to open up the possibility of legislation that will go significantly further, once the Commission has submitted detailed proposals on external costs.
But if the rapporteur intends to use the Transport Committee's compromise decision and the airing of the issue in the press this week as a way of finally burying discussion on the internalization of external costs - and it is the press coverage which has given me that impression - then I have to say that my group will not go along with that; because while there may be problems with some elements of the Commission proposal, particularly as regards the charging structure, the overall intention means an improvement in the whole approach to transport - and, most importantly, a fairer system is to be introduced that will spread the burden of costs according to the principle that the polluter pays.
