Madam President, the PHARE programme really is the most important European Union programme for bringing the Central and Eastern European countries closer to the European Union, which it has done with a great deal of real success so far, although there are still some serious shortfalls.
Every year we in the Committee on Budgets discuss the difference between the commitment and payment appropriations in the programme and about its causes and results.
Indeed we are in the process of doing so now.
Of course there is a wide variety of causes.
For one thing it is of course difficult to reach any judgment because of the lack of evaluation criteria; but even if we had them, we could not remove the causes of these shortfalls but only evaluate them better.
In my personal experience, the PHARE programme is still too dependent on the national governments and on their at times very underdeveloped administrations, which means that we keep seeing regional partners drawing up and setting up wonderful projects and programmes, only for the central state then either not to approve them or to drag its feet.
The participant Eastern European states also take very different approaches to the European Union's aid priorities.
For instance, it is not very difficult to get an infrastructure project approved and running in Poland.
But there is no desire at all there to develop a civil society, which means that hardly any money goes to this sector in Poland.
The question is, of course, whether to leave it to the countries concerned to set the priorities or whether to decentralize the decision-taking more and involve the regions more closely in deciding the programmes.
The Committee on Budgets has never wanted to cut the PHARE programme appropriations.
But that is no reason for us to go on pushing the ECU 3 000 m along in front of us like a mountain.
One point I would make in the light of the forthcoming negotiations on enlargement is that I believe we should consider how to make the PHARE programme more efficient.
Mr Wiersma's report offers a number of suggestions.
Some of them are feasible, such as the cross-border cooperation programme.
Only, after all these years of talk, we should finally implement it!
