Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to concentrate on our amendments, and in particular Amendment No 9 on growth, employment and convergence on the road to EMU.
Economic growth alone is not an adequate indicator for combating and reducing unemployment.
When you consider that the German Government has promised to halve the number of unemployed by the year 2000, a similar exaggeration with regard to Europe is not difficult to understand.
It is quite wrong to regard growth as the sole driving force and goal of Europe's economies.
Economics and ecology go hand in hand; unfortunately, however, people are coming to this realization far too slowly, and not in sufficient numbers.
The annual economic report - and this will be nothing new to those attending this debate - lacks a forward-looking European economic philosophy.
And I use the word philosophy quite deliberately - it simply lacks the sense that Europe needs to bring its economies into line with one another.
The situation in Germany, which has a publicsector share of 51 %, is totally different from that in the United Kingdom or Greece, for example.
We therefore also need to address the issues of the public-sector share and bringing Europe's economies into line with each other.
With regard to monetary union, let me say the following: we must not begin monetary union by lying to the people.
I would particularly ask Mr de Silguy to bear that in mind.
Paragraph 12 of the annual economic report refers to pension liabilities and the reserves to cover them.
If it is the case, as in Germany, that this question of pension liabilities is not raised, not even in the context of the criteria for EMU, then this is starting with a lie, and the criteria are being fudged.
We must remain credible.
The postal workers in Germany will be the latest to see that something is amiss in that country.
Lastly, I wish to point out that the German version of Amendment No 5 contains a translation mistake.
It should say 'ineffective control' , not 'inadequate control' .
