Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, our assent to this report on technical measures to conserve fishery resources is, I believe, a good example of responsible action by Parliament within the institutional framework of the Community.
It was very difficult to arrive at a credible and constructive text.
The conservation of fishery resources, the reduction of the number of immature fish being caught, the protection of breeding grounds and the differentiation made possible by technical measures are aspects of the effort to protect nature which is indispensable in today's fisheries sector.
However, the difficulties already experienced by the Council in formulating its position are bad omens.
The Council would do well to take an example from the responsible behaviour of Parliament.
For all the technical difficulties involved in this case and the delicate economic issues associated with them, we have succeeded, by dint of hard talking and the constructive input of individual Members, as well as of the political groups, in tabling a document today of which, after numerous amendments and tough negotiations, we can be justly proud.
It is up to the Commission and the Council now to pick up the thread of our proposals and above all to embrace the democratic spirit in which they were made.
Admittedly, the proposed compromises are not yet perfect.
Nevertheless, we are quite sure that they do constitute a significant improvement on the present situation and contain the minimum, indeed more than just the minimum, that is needed to halt the gradual extinction of certain species and the abuses that obviously do occur.
The technical measures to conserve fishery resources undoubtedly mean sacrifices for fishermen and fishery businesses, sacrifices which must be duly recompensed in the fullness of time.
The technical measures we are approving here represent a new step on the road towards the preservation of fish stocks and of a balanced marine ecology.
But they are only one step on the long and arduous journey upon which we have decided to embark.
The oceans are a magical world but also a vulnerable world.
They offer scope for many economic activities and countless opportunities for sporting activities and, last but not least, are part of a natural world that we must not destroy.
The purpose of our work is to make the best possible use of this living environment and to protect its riches in such a way that the livelihood of those who depend on fishing will be safeguarded for all time to come.
