Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hoppenstedt, it really is very reassuring and helpful to pat one another on the back as far as the TEN telecom consolidation is concerned.
I think many procedures go very smoothly, very quickly, as this report has shown.
Some start very quickly and then slow down.
TEN telecom consolidation got off to a rather laborious start, but I hope we shall be reaching a compromise very shortly.
Some of my hopes here rest on the Dutch presidency.
I should like to concentrate on the Hoppenstedt report.
As the rapporteur very correctly says, Europe is lagging behind the USA, the leaders in matters of satellite communications.
This is all the more painful in that these satellite communications are a logical complement to the existing high-speed infrastructures, or indeed make them possible in the first place.
This makes it all the more amazing that the Member States have reacted so negatively to the Commission's proposal and have been unable to agree on a procedure to be implemented by the Commission.
This reaction is particularly amazing when you consider that it is those same Member States that are constantly calling for a global reaction to global challenges, which certainly include satellite communications.
It is simply amazing that Europe can reach agreement on a common monetary policy and a common economic policy, and even implement them, but cannot agree on something like leaving the awarding of satellite frequencies to a European institution.
The compromise proposed by the rapporteur has our support, and is likely to provide an adequate solution to the problem we face.
I hope that the co-ordination of the selection of service providers and the harmonized use of frequencies, to which the Member States have committed themselves, really will function in practice and will not result in constant, tedious negotiations that will leave Europe even further behind in this area.
I believe in giving praise where praise is due, so a word of praise for the Council.
Regarding the conformity of the licensing procedure with the ONP text, there is an unusual degree of unanimity between Council and Parliament, and I welcome that.
In conclusion, may I thank both rapporteurs and express the hope that Honourable Members will give unrestricted support to this compromise when we come to the vote.
