Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mr Jarzembowski for actually taking the trouble to seek a balance between the various interests that are at work in the European Union, particularly in the transport sector, and indeed for finding such a balance the first time round, as it were.
I wish to support the compromise amendments which the rapporteur has tabled in this report concerning user charges for heavy goods vehicles.
I believe that placing the burden of external costs solely on heavy goods vehicles would produce a distortion of competition.
However, taking account of the Brenner route has to be a matter of urgent concern for the Union.
It really is of paramount importance that we should recognize how traffic is polluting this sensitive Alpine region.
In its proposal, the Commission merely allows for the Member States to include a component in their charges to cover external costs, but the maximum amount would be ECU 0.03 per kilometre.
By contrast, the proposal from the Committee on Transport and Tourism refers specifically to the Brenner motorway.
It would enable the Council to give the Member States in question the power to add a cost element to toll charges, so as to achieve a sustainable distribution of traffic in the Alpine region as a whole.
I also welcome the call from the Committee on Transport and Tourism for the Commission to adopt a special procedure for studying and defining not just sensitive routes, but also sensitive areas.
I believe it is important that this procedure should not only involve representatives of the Member States, but also give a voice to representatives of the regions concerned.
And it is important for Austria that a reference to the Alpine Convention should be included in the recitals of this Council directive.
As I said at the outset, I reject the notion of charging external costs solely to heavy goods vehicles, but I would emphasize once again that I am prepared to support the compromise amendments as a whole, because I hope that a start is at last being made towards recognizing the interests of Austria and the sensitive Alpine region.
The citizens of our common Europe will be more ready to accept and appreciate that Europe if we take more account of their legitimate interests.
