Madam President, of course I must take issue with the previous speaker, Mr Swoboda.
We are referring here to the last great colonial power on Earth.
We are talking about a country with three huge colonies, Tibet, East Turkestan and Mongolia.
If we do not make it absolutely clear what we stand for, what we accept, that we stand for the right of races to self-determination, that we stand for respect of human rights in China's various colonies, then we shall, in my view, have indeed missed our target and our purpose.
We can certainly see that in all three parts of the area the same means are being used.
People are deported, there is forced sterilisation, there is forced abortion.
Chinese immigrants are moved in with unbelievable promises: they are told they can have more children than in China, where they are allowed only one.
What sort of conditions are those?
They get up to all kinds of tricks, the population structure in the sub-areas is completely altered, and in these colonies, representing different areas, we are supposed for all practical purposes to close our eyes to it.
That cannot be in the interests of our Parliament.
I believe it is absolutely essential for us to express clearly what we stand for in this.
In the European Union we have a whole group of Mongolians who live amongst us, who have spent years in gaol in Beijing and in concentration camps in other places, and have only got out because of pressure from the West.
Many of them are my friends and I know their circumstances very well.
The Mongolians are in a particularly difficult position, because large numbers of them have been involved in various demonstrations - particularly the demonstration in Tienanmen Square.
Many died there, or in the aftermath to it.
Many were just able to escape and are now exiles without a chance of returning to their homeland.
I think we must also be quite clear in this case what we are talking about: that we represent the self-determination of peoples, particularly in all those places where this is being violated.
We must not shirk this, just because we are talking about the largest country on Earth.
We must speak of human rights, we must stand up for them; in other words, we must accept the consequences of being the European Union and the European Parliament.
