Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as I said previously during our last part-session here, Albania is an appalling example of what a communist government does to people.
They long remain incapable of dealing with the new freedoms and with the temptations offered by criminal elements, capitalist and otherwise.
I welcome the fact that the Council has given an undertaking today, which I strongly support, in which reference is made to the ECMM taking on important functions in that country in the future.
The fact is that we shall not succeed in creating or consolidating democratic structures with financial aid alone - the European countries also need to send human resources to Albania.
My group welcomes the formation of the all-party government.
We support this government, under President Berisha, but we also welcome the fact that the socialists have returned to take up their seats in Parliament.
We expect all Albania's politicians to take their responsibilities seriously and not simply to wait for us to bring them a solution from outside.
We cannot do that!
We welcome the decision by the Council of Ministers to allow some Member States to provide close joint co-operation by sending troops to protect the humanitarian aid workers and help promote stability in the region.
Of course, a genuinely joint action would have been even more effective, but this flexible manipulation of the instruments of foreign policy is a welcome step forward when we compare it with the way we were hamstrung in past years in Bosnia and other parts of the former Yugoslavia.
Unfortunately, the socialists in Albania are still playing a dubious role.
On 28 March they tried to establish official contacts with the self-styled leaders of the rebels, instead of supporting the lawfully elected town councils and mayors, including some of their own political complexion.
Talks with these rebels must be confined to the objective of disarming them.
If we, as members of the European Parliament, are no longer prepared to support the local politicians who were lawfully elected in September, how can we expect the rebels to do so - especially when their political and professional backgrounds are particularly dubious?
My group is in favour of early elections, but a precondition for those elections is universal access to the mass media and the laying-down of arms.
The latter point is particularly important to allay the fears of these armed gangs felt by normal citizens in Albania - which means the great majority.
The flow of refugees, too, can only be stemmed if anarchy in Albania once again gives way to the rule of law and order, and public order is restored.
With regard to the sharing of the burden of accommodating the refugees, called for in the joint motion for a resolution, I hope the House will understand when I say that I would prefer this call to be addressed only to those who have been most dilatory on this point in recent years.
The European troop contingent must be sent to the area soon.
The issue is not just protecting the humanitarian aid workers but the survival of democracy in Albania as such.
Every day counts.
