Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the BSE issue, it is true, has permeated the recent work of the European Parliament.
The report by the Committee of Inquiry tried to reconstruct and interpret the past, and I am sure that it will have repercussions.
But now, I believe, we must set about charting our course for the future.
We must see the present crisis as an opportunity to make improvements.
Foremost among these improvements will be the restoration of consumer confidence, which has plummeted so alarmingly in the last few years.
I need not reiterate to this House that the BSE crisis has brought countless farms to the brink of ruin.
It is imperative that we succeed in taking swift measures to help these farmers throughout Europe whose plight is no fault of their own and to regenerate meat consumption.
The identification of cattle and the labelling of meat and its derivatives have surely become imperative.
The aim must be to remove the anonymity of meat.
The consumer in the supermarket should not only have a quality guarantee but should also be able to identify exactly where the meat has come from.
Accordingly, I consider it essential that both the identification of cattle and the labelling of beef be introduced as quickly as possible on a compulsory basis.
I am well aware that this involves a great deal of organizational and financial input, but too much damage has already been done in the cattle industry for anyone to be content with half measures now.
I believe that the proposed system of identifying individual animals with ear tags and maintaining computerized databases, animal passports and farm cattle registers can work well if people want it to.
Besides the Member States, the Commission will also bear special responsibility for providing the necessary technical infrastructure; this must not entail disproportionately high costs, particularly for small producers.
I believe we can also learn from the BSE crisis that in future we must look beyond the market and profits and give due consideration to the protection of the health and interests of consumers too.
It seems vital to me that imports from third countries should also be subject to equally strict criteria and to compulsory identification and labelling.
By a foreseeable date it must be possible to identify reliably the exact origin of every single cut of meat on sale in the European Union.
There are ethical and moral boundaries.
Politicians are required to recognize these and to act accordingly.
They must take the interests and needs of the citizens of Europe very seriously.
