Mr President, my colleagues have already explained what is at stake today.
We are dutybound to carry through what we, the European Parliament, called for when these programmes were launched, namely to open them up to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, as is only natural.
We MEPs introduced this, not the Council or the Commission!
We have kept our word.
The Council has discussed the matter but has not kept its word.
If it had, it would have given us the funds for this venture.
It has not done so.
We launched this programme for 12 countries; now we are supposed to open it up, perhaps to as many as 25.
We are not in a position to do so, that is the problem.
The problem now is that at the same time we are negotiating with the Council about an increase in funding.
The Council informed us two weeks ago that it would grant only ECU 25 million more for the next two years.
We had asked for an extra ECU 100 m for the next two years.
In fact, we would need ECU 163 m for the next two years just to carry out the Erasmus part.
There are many other sectors too, such as school partnerships and further training, none of which will be covered at all by these meagre resources.
And now we are meant to go along with the Council's fine words and extend the programme, without having the money in our pockets.
I do not know how we can be expected to do so.
We are simply being fobbed off.
Anyone who knows the story of the emperor's new clothes is bound to say that the emperor is quite naked!
That is why we really do need more resources.
Let me make one point: the Council is so impertinent as to choose now, of all times, to call upon us urgently to extend this programme to Cyprus.
We are expected to whisk Cyprus on board in September.
I refuse to do so, and I hope - Mr Samland - that the Committee on Budgets will stand with us in rejecting this request for urgency.
All I can say to the Council is this: what really is urgent is for you finally to give us the money to carry out this task.
The wool is being pulled over our eyes!
What the Council is doing here is making a gesture, but a gesture not backed by anything of substance.
It is costing the Council nothing but fine words!
This is shameful, and I refuse to go along with it!
I am all in favour of opening up these programmes, but I am not in favour of creating even more frustration elsewhere than already exists in our own countries.
I hope, Mr President, that in the weeks and months ahead we shall continue...
... it is directed at the Council, which is holding us hostage and expects us to take the CEECs hostage.
We will not do so!
We shall put the ball back in the Council's court.
