Mr President.
Firstly may I express the consternation and sorrow of our Party that so many very distinguished people have been killed in the tragic helicopter crash in Bosnia, including Mr Carlos Westendorp's deputy, Mr Wagner, whom I met only a few weeks ago in Sarajevo, and who had achieved a very high reputation in a very short time.
He had also expressed considerable criticism - perhaps I can quote this as his legacy here - about some things that had prevented Europe speaking with a stronger voice, from playing a stronger role in Bosnia.
I would ask the Commissioner most sincerely to do all in his power to see that we do not merely give a lot of money - there is something to be said about that, as well - but really make a more powerful impression in Bosnia for the implementation of our concepts in general.
Today we are discussing Bosnia not just because there were elections a short time ago, but because, I think, we want to make an unequivocal statement of our view that we cannot and will not allow the peace process to be destroyed.
This is not a matter of angels, not a case of only good on one side and evil on the other, but it is a case of those who are ready to see the Dayton Process through to a good conclusion - regardless of where they may stand on it individually - needing our complete support.
Those who cannot refrain from continuing to disrupt this peace process must count on us taking definite measures against them, and I entirely share the view of Carlos Westendorp and the senior Delegate, that we must proceed against them with all severity and must not be afraid of doing so.
It must not be possible following the end of the war for people still to exist - unfortunately on all sides, but certainly mainly on one side or the other - who hinder the return of refugees, or the operation of this whole programme in which a multi-ethnic Bosnia is being created.
I should also like to say, Mr Commissioner, that there are cases where even the USA, the Commission or representatives of the Commission hinder the return of refugees to their homelands, and no new groups find entrance, because certain groups of citizens do not wish that to happen.
I believe one must take a firm stand against that.
The last point in the resolution is that we, the European countries, should make a lot of money available.
This money is not always used efficiently.
The money is also not sufficiently used, or used too late, because there are too few people to administer it as long as experts are at hand.
I would ask you, Mr Commissioner, to ensure that the money we make available can be more efficiently used, so that we do everything possible towards the restoration and securing of peace in Bosnia.
