Mr President, when people talk about Europe's relations with Latin America they can never be sure what past or present family affairs they may be interfering in.
There are disputes, talks, deals and criticisms.
There are sisters, brothers, cousins, godparents, relationships that have endured for decades or centuries, refuges and enterprising immigrants and emigrants.
But what we are concerned with today is the future, namely the attempt to revive the relations between the EU community of states and Latin America, marked by years of conflict between dictatorship and democracy, the fight for human rights and the construction of common markets in Latin America, by creating a partnership until the year 2000.
That is important to our common foreign policy and our foreign trade policy alike.
It affects them both.
In our view and in line with the wishes of the European Parliament, as set out in Mr Bertens' very good report, the EU must pursue both policies with a view to initiating a new transatlantic dialogue, which must also involve the United States.
Since its direct election, the European Parliament has endeavoured for many years to promote this dialogue.
Article J.1 of the Maastricht Treaty calls for a dynamic policy towards Latin America.
That had long been lacking.
Developments in Europe led to a decline in interest in the political processes in Latin America.
In spite of its undisputed economic and democratic upswing in the 1990s, Latin America has to some extent taken a back place in international politics.
With its Communication on 'The European Union and Latin America - the present situation and prospects for closer partnership 1996-2000' the Commission has pointed the way to reviving these relations.
The opinions of the two committees consulted, the continuous activities of the delegations for South and Central America, the interparliamentary dialogue in the framework of the EP-Latin American Parliament interparliamentary conferences all show how much importance we attach to the proposals set out in the resolution.
We have strongly supported the development of Mercosur, the formation of regional parliaments in Central America, the Andean parliament, the Central American parliament.
But we must not forget some important questions.
We must not forget drugs, cross-border crime and corruption, the expansion of trade in sensitive sectors, the struggle for greater human rights and democracy.
Last year's hearing in the Subcommittee on Human Rights on impunity for the crimes against humanity committed in dictatorships against political opponents but also against many ordinary people who happened to be in the wrong place, showed the complex and sensitive nature of these problems inherited from the past.
Democracy and an independent judiciary are closely interlinked.
A democratic Europe must support the stabilization of democracy in order to increase the number of democratic states in the international organisations and formulate a common security and defence policy, with a view to conflict-prevention.
It is our duty to do so and we in the European Parliament have always insisted on this to the Commission and the Council.
We wish the report much success.
