Madam President, in the Bible it says that Moses, when he saw the Jews dancing around the golden calf, smashed the Ten Commandments in his anger.
I am always reminded of this picture when I listen to Mr Tomlinson, because the Bible also says that this was a righteous anger, and I am grateful to Mr Tomlinson, for bringing righteous anger into this otherwise too peaceful House!
However, I should also like to add something to what Mr Tomlinson has said.
It is not directly connected with it, but there is a connection, nonetheless.
We are dealing here with the fact that, in our credit policy, we are gradually losing our conscience.
We criticise the Albanian government for not banning the pyramid selling schemes.
But we come up against other pyramids, and we ourselves are involved, every day, in building pyramids.
What our banks are doing here is no longer tolerable.
They are not putting their own money in, they are putting in the money that belongs to the people who have invested it with them, just like the pyramid schemes in Albania.
I read in this morning's papers that we are once again going to give a large loan to Russia, but I think we should start to realise that there are political risks there that make these loans extremely dangerous, and that we should therefore be much more careful.
I am also very grateful to Mr Tomlinson for once again pulling the communication cord with regard to the European Investment Bank, because slowly but surely we are heading towards a nasty shock as a result of these loans that we are giving to Russia.
We have already given them much too much.
On the other hand, when it comes to certain countries that have been liberated from Communism and are demonstrating that they are conscientious, countries such as Hungary and the Czech Republic, we slam the brakes on, whereas Russia is receiving unlimited credit, and slowly but surely this will place our savers at risk.
I should therefore like to thank Mr Tomlinson and ask him to keep up the good work, so that eventually we can restore real order here.
