Mr President, opinions can of course differ regarding the degree of balance achieved by Mrs Larive's motion for a resolution.
It all depends how you look at it.
However, I would not go so far as to imply that, if we undertake something here from the standpoint of consumer protection, it can be the subject of negative lobbying somewhere or other.
You approach things from a particular point of awareness, just as I do - I, too, was once a representative of consumer protection.
There are of course various things that could be said about terminology.
The term 'commercial communication' encompasses all forms of advertising, direct marketing, sponsorship, public relations and sales promotion, and it embraces the use of commercial communication services by the consumer goods industry and service sectors of all kinds.
That is exactly why commercial communication has become such an exceptionally important social factor today.
In principle, I am receptive to all liberalization movements that allow new forms of economic activity but - the crucial point - consumer protection cannot be disregarded at this particular time.
Indeed, the author of the report herself refers to the need to involve the consumer at every stage of the process.
That is a demand that I naturally support in principle, particularly because consumer protection, in the liberalistic system of the defence of interests based on individual responsibility, is not just a question of fair competition and equality of opportunity in the single market, as industry demands every time something is done to boost liberalization.
In reality, of course, consumer protection is something more.
The amendments tabled by my group relate to a question of principle.
They relate to the involvement of and respect for the consumer, and especially to the right of our children not to be subjected to total brainwashing by advertisers.
That is the issue of consumer protection!
Even within our system of values, this is a question of democratic minimum standards, despite, and indeed because of, the great economic potential involved.
The citizen of the European Union must not have the feeling that, within the liberalized European Union, he has been delivered up helplessly into the hands of various lobbies and their interests, because otherwise he might eventually transfer that very feeling onto the European Union, which is something we do not want.
Consumer protection is a question of confidence and the creation of confidence.
It is clear to me, on the one hand, that every enterprise and every industry wants to see its own house rules transferred to the marketplace.
But we must not lose sight of the fact that the consumer, the purchaser, the user has a right to have the standards or provisions of the law applied in his home country.
The amendments tabled by the Socialist Group are designed to ensure better communication, better access to the law and a closer watch on commercial communication for the consumer, and to build his confidence.
The issue is the protection of the weak, not some new form of protectionism.
So it is important, when we come to vote, that due account is also taken of this entitlement.
