Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the present drafts relating to measures for the further reduction of vehicle emissions reflect a new approach.
For the first time they not only lay down limit values for vehicle emissions but also propose fuel quality specifications.
I believe this is quite right, because clean fuels enable advanced engine technologies to be used, and the combination of the two makes a direct and substantial contribution to improving air quality.
This thought should guide us when we vote tomorrow.
Specifically, though, it must mean specifications such as we decided upon in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
This applies particularly to sulphur, benzene and aromatics, to ensure that it pays off to incorporate the existing technological advances into motor vehicles.
But a prerequisite for this is that the petroleum and car industries should have planning certainty.
That is why we are already trying to bring in binding levels for the year 2005.
The Commission's proposal, though, falls far short of this.
In effect, it merely prescribes something that already exists.
That alone, as I see it, is sufficient reason to take an extremely critical view of the Commission's proposal.
It also has to be said that the auto programme and the oil programme were combined in a single volume, but I can see no such connection in the proposal.
Overall, then, the opportunity has not been taken to exploit the benefits for the environment and human health of combining strict vehicle emission limits with fuel specifications.
Most of all, though, nothing has been done to promote or improve competitive prospects, and the European industry has taken a step backwards here.
When further measures are proposed, we constantly hear the argument - we have heard it several times here today - that costs increase as a result.
Even more frequently, we have heard it said that if the petroleum industry invests in order to achieve these specifications that we are proposing, it will cost them ECU 0.01 per litre.
So where is the harm in that?
After all, it is essentially the taxpayer that will have to pay.
Regarding the competitive situation of the sectors of industry concerned, which we must always bear in mind when reaching our decision, the first point here as far as the petroleum industry is concerned is that competition between companies essentially takes place at regional level and not between the various petroleum industries.
In fact, in the case of the petroleum industry, I would be inclined to say 'deal' rather than 'competition' , because price deals take place at board level.
That is not competition at all.
In the car industry, the opportunities to compete internationally lie in developing advanced technology.
But this concept only has prospects of market success if for example denitrification catalysts and clean fuels are introduced.
An environmental policy which creates or improves competitive opportunities - which is what we are talking about here - is a good policy.
There are wide divergences within the European Union in such areas as refinery technology and the technology or age of the vehicle stock.
As a result, there is a natural tendency to say that we need exemptions so that these differences can be gradually phased out.
But if we take that route we shall be sacrificing part of our fuel industry, the refinery industry, to the 30 % excess capacity that exists within the European Union, and then we shall have to take the consequences - the demand for aid to make good this shortfall.
So we should be thinking about safeguarding the competitiveness of the car industry and the fuel industry, and the only way we can do that is with the programme that Parliament has proposed.
