Mr President, I should first like to thank the rapporteur warmly for her detailed and devoted work in this field, and I trust that her efforts will be crowned with success.
I hope that the Council of Environment Ministers, which after all is made up of individual Environment Ministers who find a great deal to say at home about preventive environmental protection and about how important it is for us to protect the climate and how important it is to pursue environmentally compatible agriculture and about how important sustainable, environmentally compatible development is for industry will, when Parliament has taken its decision tomorrow in favour of the environment, also recognize Parliament's viewpoint when it comes to a conciliation procedure, or perhaps even earlier, because we still have a great deal to do.
President Santer was saying this morning that the primary functions of the Union were to create sustainable growth and new jobs.
I would say that sustainable growth, properly used, does create new jobs.
Because we all know that we not only can create new, lasting jobs through environmental repairs - something that still has to be done in many places, because things are a long way from being as they should -but, in particular, we can do so by undertaking preventive environmental protection in all areas; in other words, our aim must be the rational use of energy; our aim must be to guarantee a water supply that is environmentally compatible and provides people with enough water; our aim must be to organize waste management in such a way that we are not choked to death by our own waste mountains.
That is the only way to achieve the sustainability that we talk so much about.
The rapporteur has introduced very sound and important amendments in all areas, which my group would like to support.
I would particularly stress the preventive environmental protection in all areas: in agriculture, in industry, in motor vehicle manufacture most of all, and in the chemicals sector, because it is particularly important there for us to proceed with very great care and very great deliberation.
The energy sector, too, is very important.
There is one other point, too, that I should like to mention where I think further progress must be made, and that is the involvement of the public; this applies particularly to the many local schemes in connection with Agenda 21.
Ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, there is an Italian proverb that says that saying and doing are often half the width of the sea apart.
Let us not see half the width of the sea between saying and doing in the environmental sector!
