Mr President, the people of Europe must be completely confused.
Here we have a decision by the European authorities on the labelling of genetically modified foodstuffs, and at the same time, while this decision is being reported on, the Commission allows the importing of maize and soya which are intended, amongst other things, for food production, without making any provision for labelling.
Who is responsible for this confusion, which on the one hand discredits genetic engineering, but on the other hand also weakens people's confidence in the European decision-making process?
It is quite clear that the European Commission is responsible.
The Commission has blocked the novel food regulation, which we in the European Parliament decided on in the spring of last year.
And if Mr Bangemann and the whole Commission had taken on board Parliament's amendments, then by the summer of 1996 we would have had a valid labelling regulation.
The Commission has also left it too late to amend Directive 220/90/EEC, because it is illogical that we should want to label foodstuffs but not their raw materials.
How is the food manufacturer supposed to label his products?
However, I also believe that the fundamentalists are jointly responsible for confusing the public.
They are stirring up fears that any foodstuff that has anything to do with genetic engineering poses an enormous risk to the consumer.
Mrs Breyer talks about a full-scale attack on our health.
I would be more inclined to agree with her fellow-member of the German Bundestag, who says that there are no horror plants growing in the fields.
Even ampicillin resistance, in my opinion, is not a risk.
I would also say, however, with equal vehemence, that it is also unnecessary, because what can be done by means of ampicillin resistance can also be achieved by other means, and that must happen as soon as possible.
We want to have genetic engineering, but it should not be introduced secretly, and we must put an end to this confusion once and for all.
Mrs Bjerregaard and the European Commission as a whole have the power to end this confusion.
Before 15 May, in other words before the novel food regulation comes into force, they have to call a meeting of the Scientific Committee on Food, and it must be made clear that provision is being made for comprehensive labelling for all products, so that this mess can finally be cleared up.
