Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the limitless skies referred to at times by Pam Cornelissen all too often turn into a real hell.
Last year a colleague from my group, Brian Simpson, and I tabled a motion for a resolution following the crash in the Caribbean in which all 189 passengers of a Birgenair aircraft lost their lives.
We did so in order to make it clear that air safety is not the responsibility of air traffic control alone but that other basic aspects must also be taken into account, such as technical safety standards, together with high-level training of pilots and all the ancillary workers in the aircraft industry.
Some of the demands we made were satisfied.
Some Member States have taken steps to draw up a black list.
Let me also give due recognition to what the German transport minister, Mr Wissmann, has done, in forbidding the take-off or landing of aircraft that revealed certain weaknesses following more stringent checks.
But all these are only first steps.
I would ask the Commission to take action and in particular to draft a directive that would persuade the giant companies to indicate in their brochures the air carrier which will be used.
This is done in some Member States.
In our motion for a resolution we call for this practice to be extended throughout the territory of the European Union.
We need a uniform air traffic monitoring system on everything that can happen these areas, a kind of air traffic management system.
For years Parliament has been calling for greater efficiency, compatibility and higher productivity.
I think we owe that to the consumers, but also to the airline companies which, of course, also have an obligation to fulfil.
We know that the European airlines are facing very strong competition and the cost burden referred to by Mr von Cornelissen does indeed speak for itself.
The first step must be to improve coordination in order to avoid further mistakes.
But I think that it must be established very soon that the Commission bears the central responsibility, and that like the mandate it was given for negotiations with third countries, the Commission must also be given a mandate to consider these aspects.
I believe we do need a common airspace with the Central and Eastern European countries and with the Mediterranean area as a whole.
We should also ensure that the technical equipment is properly compatible.
At the same time I hope that European technology can be used here.
Why, given our efficiency in this technology, do we have to buy in from 'outside' ?
I do not think that is necessary.
As an everyday example: my son is a commercial airline pilot.
He keeps telling about the thoughtlessness of some air traffic controllers, saying that when planes fly over certain countries, especially Italy and France, the controllers give instructions in their mother-tongue.
If only as a matter of terminology, the air traffic control language used should be English.
All this must included in the list of measures that can be introduced.
I have little sympathy for the casual acceptance of this kind of risk.
I see it as irresponsible.
Our aim is standardization within a European, possibly even a Community European civil aviation authority.
That is our common aim.
Until then we will have to take a few interim steps in that direction, but I think we agree on the ultimate aim.
My dear Mr Cornelissen, thank you very much for all the work you have put into this report.
I would like to take this opportunity to give very warm thanks for your two and a half years of hard work as chairman of the committee.
Our friend Mr Cornelissen has retired from this office.
I thank him warmly for his much-appreciated work.
