Mr President.
May I first of all turn to my friend Mr Hallam, who started by saying with some justification that he unfortunately had to deal with this most important issue before a very empty Parliament.
I have been here since the beginning, and so I should like to offer him some comfort by saying that in my experience those who are here on a Friday represent quality; those who are absent do not!
Mr Hallam's report comes at just the right time.
He emphasized in his speech term, that today one can only work in the short term, because a very big change is imminent in the whole monetary system.
In this very debate it has become clear once again how important it is for us to have a common European currency.
I can only say on behalf of my own electoral constituency of Upper Bavaria that our farmers are waiting for this European money, because our main trade takes place with Italy, and of late there have really been huge fluctuations in the Lira rate, causing our farmers the most serious problems.
As soon as we have a European currency, that can no longer happen.
We shall then have stability, we hope, and I would say that the whole of Mr Hallam's proposal is really only a temporary solution, but a vital one.
It is really important in all questions to do with agriculture, that we create a temporary solution.
In my personal view the long-term outlook for agriculture is excellent.
There is one simple reason for this: our industrial society is running at full tilt into a cul-de-sac.
We have built up most of it on non-renewable raw materials.
Now the time for renewable raw materials is approaching.
We should take note of the fishing wars as a major warning, though.
Only ten years ago we were told that the oceans were an infinitely large resource, and we should solve all our problems there.
Today we already have problems with fishing conflicts between Europe and Canada, Europe and Africa, France and Spain.
We must recognize that the end has come for non-renewable raw materials.
Renewable raw materials will now come from agriculture.
If you study the problem a little and do not allow yourself to be blinded by criticism from certain large multinational companies, you will see quite clearly that that is no futuristic dream.
Let us take fuels, for example.
Last time I drove to the plenary session in a car that was propelled by natural oil; not rapeseed oil, but an oil derived from grasses.
It is wonderful to drive with it.
It is a fact that in Germany everything possible is being done to stop the construction of a network of petrol stations where this oil can be bought.
This is because it would be much cheaper than conventional products, probably because the state has not yet fully extended its highway robbery to include it.
For us, the most important thing is to do everything in our agricultural policy for the maintenance of the agricultural structure against the day when it is really needed.
I would say - at my age one can allow oneself prophesies by saying to oneself that one will not be here when the test comes - we must simply hope that this farming structure is maintained as the subsequent basis for our agriculture, and that we should do anything to create traditional measures for farmers.
So my warmest thanks to Mr Hallam for what he has said, because he represented this view very well.
I think we should welcome this report and the resolution.
