Mr President, adapting something that Heine once said about Germany, ' To think of China in the night puts all my hope of sleep to flight.'
That is doubly valid here.
All our plans for the evening have been put to flight by this important subject, but the important subject itself causes us deep concern.
And the topics of foreign policy and foreign trade policy, which create so much debate in the European Parliament, also include topics connected with China, with China's role in the world, and especially matters relating to those regions that are politically and/or culturally connected with China.
Mr McMillan-Scott has presented us with a comprehensive report, covering many different aspects.
I should like to confine myself to one: human rights, which after all is the most critical for us.
The attitude of the European Union is becoming a test case here, not just as regards a common policy towards China but also as regards its attitude in future negotiations with other countries.
Many countries produce a hostile reaction if tackled on the issue of human rights.
They will see our attitude to China as a yardstick.
The McMillan-Scott report imposes requirements in the human rights areas that make our principles clear.
In this sensitive area, especially, we should not become entangled in contradictions and so weaken the demands we make on other countries.
Economic relations are also political relations.
Anyone who sets his hopes on contributing to the democratization of a country is supporting that precise argument, but human rights are part of democracy.
Good relations with China are something for which we all hope, including in particular greater openness towards people in China.
China, for its part, has expectations to live up to.
The handover of Hong Kong will show how far it stands by its obligations under the handover treaty, which will provide a pointer for international co-operation.
No one would dispute that the restructuring of a gigantic empire into a modern state involves many problems, especially in the case of a state which is home to many nations.
But China's government should have the courage, too, to proceed towards the rule of law, human rights and democracy.
Thousands of years of Chinese culture can give it the strength to do so.
The same applies to its attitude towards Tibet and respect for an equally ancient culture.
And it applies, too, to a peaceful settlement of relations with Taiwan, which is an area where trade relations really should lead to changed relations.
