Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, smuggling occurs when it brings in a lot of money.
The contraband CFCs that have been discovered are surely a mere fraction of what is being smuggled into the Union.
My colleague, Mr Bowe, has drawn attention to that fact.
I, too, have put a series of questions to the Commission in this context, because rumours of smuggling have repeatedly arisen.
They are not being smuggled because they are themselves so valuable, but because their manufacture is prohibited, and yet much equipment and many installations that cannot function without CFCs are still in existence.
This is, I believe, one of the main points we have to bear in mind.
It is not enough to prohibit manufacture.
It is not enough to prohibit sales.
It is not enough to prohibit imports.
One must also work towards the phased removal, modification or replacement with new models of all those installations that still operate with CFCs today.
That is most certainly also an area which must be researched, not just into replacement materials, but also replacement equipment and installations.
If someone owns a car cooled with CFCs, replacement for the air conditioning costs over $ 200, and that money can buy a car in the USA.
So this means that if we are serious about the matter, we must start with the total removal from use of this material, which causes long term damage to the ozone layer.
Many of us will not live to see the day when the ozone layer has so far recovered as to equate once more with pre-1970 levels.
I believe it will also be necessary to reinforce control measures in Member States, to examine quotas carefully, and perhaps to buy more equipment like that used in the USA to detect smuggled CFCs.
This also would be an important step, but all that can only be one measure to bring about a faster end to use.
As far as I am aware, Directorate General XI is preparing a document that will also enable the Union to introduce an earlier end to the use of HCFCs.
We should all work together on this, as far as both investment and replacement compounds are concerned.
