Mr President, the European Commission was right to remind us in its strategy paper that fiscal policy in the European Union needs to be reorganized.
In my view, the single market and the free movement of capital, rather than monetary union, are the factors that require us to think harder about tax harmonization, and ultimately to adopt measures that will promote it.
I am very glad to see that the strategy paper deals with all the areas in which short- and medium-term solutions are required.
What is needed here is improved cooperation on tax-related matters, a new approach to harmonizing company taxation, and the harmonization of tax on capital income.
The important point in this context is that we should avoid unfair competition within the single European market between countries seeking to attract inward investment, and that we should help to ensure that tax systems in the European Union are genuinely fair.
On the other hand, however, we must put a stop to the zero-sum game which is made possible by the existence of tax havens, by the distortion of competition for inward investment on the basis of unfair tax incentives, and by other distortions which, I am sorry to say, are possible under the various systems of taxation.
In the field of company taxation, we need to agree on definitions and bases for calculating tax.
In my opinion, we should make an urgent start on the implementation of the Ruding committee recommendations.
Another requirement in this area is to make a distinction between the taxation of profits that are withdrawn and profits that are reinvested.
We need to take action on these matters urgently.
The taxation of capital income has already been discussed many times in the House, and we have proposed various solutions.
It is very important to recognize that state subsidies are not the only factor to be considered when it comes to measuring competitiveness.
The destructive tax competition which we are currently experiencing in the European Union can be just as damaging, and it is therefore high time that the European Parliament got to grips with the issues in the Commission's strategy paper and, with the help of the Secchi report, defined a clear position on these topics once again.
