Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can hardly believe it: the House is almost, if not entirely unanimous.
My warm compliments to Mrs Rothe for an excellent report.
Renewable energies must be promoted by detailed measures in order to disseminate European technology throughout the world - we should stress this - and to restore the health of the climate.
Two billion people in the world can only be supplied with electricity decentrally, which is why it is so urgent for us to act here.
However, let us have no illusions, this is not up to us but to the Member States.
If the 15 Member States do not play along, nothing will come of all this.
I do not like to see people keep pretending here in Parliament that the European Union is responsible for the use of primary energy sources.
It is not!
It is responsible neither for this nor for nuclear energy!
For the rest, we should not imagine either that these energy sources can be introduced without any dispute.
Unfortunately there are still protests on protests up and down the country.
There are protests about the use of tidal power, protests about the use of wind power.
Nobody should seriously imagine that we can introduce an energy source that needs to be promoted and disseminate it around the world without protest - that will not happen!
We have already adopted the action plan; this report describes it very comprehensively and well.
I also believe that the liberalization of the internal market through the obligatory licence and priority rules has brought progress in certain areas, which the Member States should avail themselves of.
Commissioner, let me say quite clearly that I expect the White Paper at last to give a clearly formulated reply in economic terms to the question whether startup financing with EC resources really can encourage the market introduction of renewable energies - yes or no.
I have not read a single sensible document by the Commission, by a government or by a scientific institution on this subject and I think it is simply not enough to promote 100 000 roofs programmes here.
I would wish to see a more detailed analysis of whether it makes any economic sense at all to spend money on this.
My group supports the report; we take a slightly different view on the last point.
