Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this Seventh Annual Report is a special one, not just because for the first time it covers three new Member States but far more in fact because the report refers to the beginning of the second planning period, a time when the discussion on reforming the structural funds was already in full swing.
There is really no point in looking back to the past, in this case to the year 1995, unless one draws lessons from it for the future.
So I will not evaluate the many positive aspects noted in the Commission's report, in relation also to previous reports, but lay the finger on a few sore points.
As with the previous annual reports, once again we note that in practice the beneficiaries face the problem of excessive bureaucracy and more or less inflexible disbursement procedures.
That is why talk about the need to simplify the legal provisions and administrative procedures is not just a matter of empty words that keep sounding in our ears but an important factor of the reform, if we are to achieve greater efficiency and transparency.
In my view the Seventh Annual Report also makes it clear that in regions where the administration has been decentralized, more use has been made of the possibilities offered by the structural fund interventions.
Decentralized administration can also help resolve an acute problem in some Member States where the regions face long delays before receiving payments from Brussels.
A further finding relates to planning.
Here more account must be taken of the direct political responsibility of the regional players in setting the structural objectives and determining the assistance priorities.
And if we want to create wider possibilities for structural fund measures in the year 2000 and later, regardless of statistical values, we will have to make provision for a relative number of changes, so that we can react to any unforeseeable structural fluctuations.
In short, it must be possible to adjust programmes after they have started and in a flexible manner; that is a requirement we should set out in relation to the reform.
