Mr President, in principle, cooperation with the world's emerging economies is to be recommended.
It has already been pointed out that these countries differ widely from one another, but even within the countries themselves, the differences in the distribution of poverty and wealth are very great.
It is therefore difficult to draw up a report that is relevant to every situation, and that is evident from this report.
The basic needs and living conditions of the whole population are to be taken into consideration.
That is one positive feature of this report.
In this context, however, I wonder why there should be no partial financing.
This means that only large-scale research projects will be supported, and that leads to centralization, so that it is then questionable whether there will be any narrowing of the gap between rich and poor.
I take the view that specific projects for the poorer sections of the population, and technologies for the prevention of famine situations, e.g. in the areas identified, could also bring about synergistic effects.
The encouragement of regional cooperation is also approved by us, as are programmes for exchanges of scientists, researchers and engineers.
Improving the agricultural situation is a very important issue, and we discussed this at the FAO Conference.
However, there is no mention here of the fact that this situation is often the result of the property-ownership conditions in these countries.
Often there is no famine situation, but famine occurs because of the unfair distribution of property, and population growth, which is mentioned in this report, is not the cause.
The BSE scandal shows that the encouragement of agricultural production on an industrial scale is the wrong approach for the world's emerging economies and developing countries.
Someone has just pointed out that the human rights situation has to be taken into consideration.
I believe that this should be included in agreements of this kind.
If we conclude an agreement with China, then of course we must not forget about human rights.
If this is not possible - and at the moment we have a disagreement with Mexico here - then these agreements should not be signed.
Finally, on the report as a whole, I believe that it is a blank cheque for the Commission.
The question is, what will the Commission do with it?
I hope, Mr Bangemann, that you will do your best, so that we shall not, at some subsequent date, have to set up a committee of inquiry on this report!
