Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
Today we have another opportunity, after well over a year, to debate the postal services, and this time during the second reading of the guidelines with the interminable title.
If we are to be honest, this guideline is no great leap forward.
The only success one can acknowledge is that the guideline is temporary and thus - I say it quite openly - this puts a certain amount of pressure on Member States to make their postal services competitive and fit for the internal market.
If this were not possible, the guideline would not be worth the paper it is printed on.
We do not wish, however, to quarrel with the main planks of the compromise, agreed by the Telecommunications Council of Ministers last December, because I naturally see the following problems here: a) a majority decision, b) forcing the issue through in Council.
A certain reserved sector is essential to ensure that basic postal coverage also applies to rural areas.
A universal commitment to service - in other words a certain minimum range of postal products available to all citizens at acceptable prices - is equally justified.
My group, the Group of the European People's Party will not puss for a compromise procedure, as we must at long last come to the point where things start moving in the member states.
The crucial issue is how we organize a common market in which the central European question, namely final accounting, has to be regulated by an antiquated system - the World Postal Union.
No one has been able to give me a satisfactory answer to this question.
It was quite astonishing how diplomatically Brian Simpson presented his report today, with little trace left of the combative and innovative spirit we saw in the first reading.
A year ago we agreed that we had to find a European solution to the problem of final payment.
Now, in the second reading, allegiance is withdrawn, just so as not to endanger the Council's compromise.
My compliments to the British on how quickly they have learned the rules of the game!
We in the Group of the European People's Party feel that we must achieve a common market, with competition even in the postal services, but that this competition should not grant one nation advantages over another.
A reserved sector, a universal service obligation, which is attacked, even undermined, by unauthorised redirection can never meet with our approval.
I am really touched by Mrs Schmidbauer's crocodile tears, but if you want social protection and so on, support my amendment!
Then things will proceed automatically, then we shall no longer have any need to discuss small post offices in Germany and the like.
You have it in your power to do something tomorrow for your comrades!
I had wanted to cover a few more things, but time has run away from me.
Mr Commissioner, The matter of terminal dress has still not been settled.
Even though, thanks to the dissension of the opposing side, we shall not win tomorrow, I must ask you to see that we make progress here.
We cannot create an internal market with a World Postal Union!
