Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate about the rights of assisting wives began about 30 years ago in Austria.
Today, the legal position is as follows: the assisting wife or the husband can be employed quite normally as employees.
They are then covered by sickness, accident and pensions insurance.
If the activity consists merely of internal assistance, then it cannot constitute a working relationship, but the assisting spouse can take out sickness insurance along with the other partner.
If the marriage ends in divorce, then under ยง 81 of the Marriage Act, the marital property and marital savings are divided up.
The only thing is that the wife must have actually made her contribution.
Under ยง 83 (2) of the Marriage Act, this contribution consists of the following: ' running the joint household, caring for and bringing up the joint children, and any other conjugal support' .
That may also be a good piece of advice.
As far as farmers' wives in particular are concerned, the separate paying out of pensions was introduced in 1989 in Austria.
A farmer's wife can demand, even against her husband's wishes, that 50 % of his pension should be paid directly to her.
Since 1992 farmers' wives have had their own pensions.
Since 1 July 1990, farmers' wives also receive benefit for a 'non-working period' of one and a half years following the birth of a child.
There is also a farmer's wife's weekly allowance, based on the wife's own insurance, which is payable for the statutory maternity leave period, which in Austria is four weeks before and four weeks after the birth of a child.
With effect from 1 January 1993, a woman who retires receives a supplement for each child, and periods spent bringing up children are also counted as qualifying periods giving rise to pension entitlement for the purposes of calculating her own pension.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we should continue the discussion.
I should be happy to give all of you the documents describing these legal options.
We are not discussing fantastic dreams: what we are discussing is a reality and a right that is already being experienced in a Member State of the European Union.
