Mr President, population growth is a problem for the development of many countries.
However, it is by no means the only cause of poverty, and my group is convinced that it is not the main cause of poverty in the developing countries.
Population growth should not, therefore, be used as an excuse for refusing essential aid and trade preferences.
Nonetheless, the fact remains that population growth must be vigorously tackled.
Solutions must be found which take account of the people concerned.
Personal experience has convinced me that it is not the case that families, and particularly women, are happy with large numbers of children.
It is the women who are seeking information about birth control, and they are also seeking practical help.
I think it is right that the European Union should offer that information and practical help.
Of course, we all realize that this means more than just distributing condoms.
An integrated approach is needed, and education - particularly for women - is also a key to tackling population problems effectively.
Our group has a special concern which has already emerged in the debate: we are particularly anxious that unwanted pregnancies should be avoided.
On the other hand, because we are dealing here with a budget line for population policies and demography, we also wish to see the decision of the Cairo Conference being implemented.
In other words, abortion should not be a means of birth control.
If we are talking here about demography, as opposed to general humanitarian aid, then this is not the place for argument about abortion under medically unsatisfactory conditions, because we are dealing here simply with population policy.
The fact is that we cannot agree on the question of abortion, nor are we going to reach agreement, whether in Parliament or in the European Union.
And our amendments are not designed to produce a European Union view on abortion.
Of course we must take the Cairo Conference seriously, in so far as what we are dealing with here is population policy.
I should therefore be grateful if the other groups could signal their willingness to accept Amendments Nos 3, 4 and 5 in particular.
These amendments were tabled by other groups at first reading: Amendment No 5, in particular, came from the Socialist Group.
The point here is that no support should be given to countries or organizations that use compulsory abortion and infanticide as means of controlling the population.
In my view, there can be no serious argument against such an amendment.
Therefore, I would ask once again for your support on this point.
