Mr President, as an imaginative, radical and, for that very reason, responsible opposition, we too should like to state our agreement with the Luxembourg presidency.
We shall examine very carefully what the Luxembourg presidency undertakes, and we shall support every step, however small, which is a genuine step away from the present misguided policy and sets a new course towards a different, more democratic, ecological and social Europe.
A Europe, a European Union, which is not so much in the service of the banks and multinationals as in the service of the common man, and plays a constructive role worldwide to strike a balance in the name of solidarity and to prevent and resolve conflict.
That includes serious consideration of the call for genuine equality in the treatment of the accession candidates, including those which are not proposed as members of the first round.
But it also includes more detailed attention to employment policy.
I can also tell the House that we are to hold a Green employment summit in Luxembourg 14 days before the Council meeting.
Together with other elements of the European Assembly for Full Employment, we shall be present at the summit in Luxembourg in order to present our demands.
Among those will be the abandonment of the neoliberal, monetarist orientation of employment policy which amounts to seeing a solution in low wages and precarious employment.
We have no need of the spectre of Keynesian spending programmes, under which billions of ECU are buried and then dug up again for no discernible purpose.
We must launch a European employment policy, which will of course cost money, but which is first and foremost based on a policy transition to a different model of development: ecological programmes of investment in the future, public support for shorter working hours, direct strengthening of internal demands by means of downward redistribution and financial action in the third sector.
If we embark together on that course, we shall not have to see Agenda 2000 leaping into life as a roaring lion and then finishing up as a bedside rug for those who determine European policy at present.
