Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, not long ago a Portuguese citizen was sentenced in Germany to life imprisonment for murder.
Unfortunately he was able to escape from prison and make his way back to Portugal.
The request from the Federal Republic of Germany for extradition of the legally sentenced murderer to Germany, so that he could serve the remainder of his sentence, was dismissed by the other Member State, Portugal, on the grounds that there was no life sentence in Portugal and therefore the extradition request could not be granted.
This case precisely illustrates the problem we face here.
Contrary to what the speaker from the Greens has said, this is not about destroying a constitutional state, but just the opposite: it is about building one in Europe for the first time!
It is no evidence of constitutional statehood, if murder is punished in Europe entirely differently or not at all.
We are seeing here once more that we have a large economic area, but a corresponding constitutional area does not follow.
Economically we can undoubtedly trade across frontiers - unfortunately, criminals, even organized crime, can do so as well - but the law has not finalized these cross-border arrangements to any satisfactory extent.
This convention is a very cautious and, many here will feel, unsatisfactory step in this direction, which is intended to ensure that criminals within the Union can still be called to account if they avail themselves of the benefits otherwise offered by the Union, for instance, freedom of movement.
That is only fair.
If I were to criticise this convention, it would be not only on the grounds Mrs PalacioVallelersundi very precisely clarified and which Mr Schulz also mentioned, namely, the unsatisfactory involvement of the European Parliament, but also because movement towards a common area has been inadequate, the convention is full of dubious points, and another Member State, Greece, reserves the right not to extradite anyone accused of having fought for peace.
I can hardly believe that there is so different an understanding of the word peace anywhere in the Union that crimes can hide behind it.
This all shows that we have not advanced very far.
Nevertheless, this is a step in the right direction and it is necessary for this convention to be ratified quickly, so that it can come into effect.
