Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, although sport plays an important part in the lives of European citizens, the EU has paid it scant attention in the past.
That makes the present discussion by the European Parliament on the role of the EU in sport all the more important, and I congratulate my honourable colleague Doris Pack on her excellent report.
Since the Bosman ruling by the European Court of Justice in December 1995, sport has been a major topic of public debate.
In today's report, which I fully endorse and to which I have also tabled a few amendments as the shadow rapporteur, the place of sport as a responsibility of society in its entirety receives particular emphasis, for sport is a significant social phenomenon.
With its educational, democratic, cultural, social, integrative and health-promoting aspects, it has an enormous beneficial impact on our daily lives.
Sporting events and the men and women who take part in them captivate millions in stadia and on television screens and motivate people to copy their idols and engage in sport.
In my small country alone, for example, two million people - one-quarter of the entire population - are members of sports clubs, which number 14, 000.
It is therefore insufficient to consider the economic aspect alone without looking at sport in its totality; such a restricted view also creates undesirable side-effects, such as a lack of incentive to nurture young players because of the abolition of transfer fees, which was an unfortunate consequence of the Bosman ruling.
I fully support Doris Pack's three main demands: firstly, the call to the current Intergovernmental Conference to include an explicit reference to sport in Article 128 of the EU Treaty; secondly, the appeal to the Commission to set up a task force on sport, so that the responsibilities for sport, which are currently divided among 18 directorsgeneral, I believe, can be concentrated in one body; and thirdly, the request for the production of a Green Paper, after consultation with all the main sports organizations, with a view to the formulation of an EU action plan on sport.
I also attach importance to the universal right of citizens to receive information, which means that major sporting events must not be restricted to pay TV but should be receivable in unencrypted form by all viewers; it is also important that the sports governing bodies should help to draw up the list of such events.
Another important feature of the report is its special emphasis on school sport, youth sport and women's sport, reflecting the fact that everyone, and particularly those from poorer and disadvantaged sections of the population, should have the right to engage actively in sport.
One of the conditions for this is a good training system for PE teachers and sports coaches.
Finally, the organization of a European Year of Sport would underline the importance of sport to the people of Europe.
