Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Funk said that if the Council takes decisions in this way, the process is quicker.
Matters would no doubt be dealt with much more quickly, Mr Funk, if democracy were abolished, but the big question is whether that would be any better!
The Council has ridden roughshod over Parliament's rights, and attempted to push through an arrangement without a proposal being presented by the Commission.
What disgraceful conduct!
We should not tolerate this, especially since we only recently asked the Commission when it was intending to submit a proposal.
It was not then in a position to do so.
Now that the Council has stolen its thunder, the Commission is having to go along with it, and we give the whole business our blessing after the event.
We should not accept this kind of treatment!
Turning to the substance of the matter, the figure is 5 %, but there is also voluntary set-aside, which is still possible up to a rate of 33 %.
What is needed here is an arrangement geared not to land set-aside, but to land use or land regeneration.
That is why we have tabled an amendment whereby legumes - grass-clover and lucerne - can be grown on such land.
Grazing should also be allowed on set-aside land, and regulated organic farms should be allowed to use legumes grown there as forage.
The point is that the EU produces surpluses not across the board, but only in certain sectors.
Where we do have surpluses, these are the result of imports of feed from overseas.
It would make a good deal of sense to plant protein crops on this land, because we cover only 20 % of our own protein needs within the EU: it would be an excellent idea to make up for our protein deficit by starting to produce protein crops.
I realize that, pursuant to Article 43, this amendment will not be successful unless it is taken up by the Commission.
I contacted the Commission yesterday evening, and learned that there are legal difficulties which prevent forage being produced under the compulsory set-aside scheme, but that it can be done on land set aside voluntarily.
So what we agreed was this: we shall suggest an addition - which I shall put forward as an amendment later on - referring to voluntary set-aside.
The Commission will not take up this amendment now, but will do so under the agricultural reform in Agenda 2000.
Mr Van Miert is to make a statement to this effect.
So if compulsory set-aside is reduced to zero under Agenda 2000, we shall be able to use voluntary set-aside to make up for our protein deficit, thereby introducing a programme of regeneration which will put crop rotation in general on an ecologically sounder footing.
