Mr President, modest advances have been made within the European Union in achieving equality of opportunity between men and women, as can be clearly seen from the Commission's annual report for 1996 and Mrs Kestelijn-Sierens' report.
There are still considerable shortcomings, both at community and national levels.
The preceding speaker has correctly pointed these out.
However, mainstreaming is an important idea for securing long-overdue equal rights, provided that it is included in all concepts and measures of the European Union, and not tucked away in corners and areas of secondary importance.
To achieve positive change over the longer term, special programmes are required to cover areas ranging from information and awareness programmes to qualitative analysis of programmes and actions.
The Amsterdam Draft Treaty has strengthened the legal basis for equal rights measures.
At one time it was only mentioned in Article 119.
Now Article 2 has been extended to include equal rights.
So the Community has a duty to remove inequality and ban discrimination on grounds of gender.
Also, as we in the Committee on Women's Rights were pleased to discover, the Social Protocol and the Employment Chapter contain important amendments.
Mainstreaming concerns everyone, both men and women, as the rapporteur, Angela Kokkola, put it in forthright terms.
A change of mental attitude by men, abandonment of old-fashioned traditions, and a readiness to accept change are all unavoidable.
That is obvious in professional life, where top jobs continue to be occupied on genderspecific lines, despite every evidence of high qualifications and expertise produced amongst women.
On the job market women continue to be a reserve available as required.
In good times they are sought after, only to be sacked when times are hard.
They have no security or long term prospects.
There is still a scarcity of retraining programmes, for instance, to improve professional qualifications, enter the technical field - heaven knows, still a typically male-dominated area! - or return to work after pregnancy.
The report recommends criteria for assessing equal rights and quite rightly supports studies on the effects of mainstreaming in Member States.
The numerous ways in which women's participation in the structural funds can be increased, from pilot projects to raising the proportion of women, are also on our common list of requirements.
Mr Commissioner, we are confidently relying on the motivation and authority of the European Commission.
