Mr President, the reports we are debating should be endorsed.
Yet I have a sneaking suspicion that once again a lot of money is to be spent mainly on producing paper.
I have nothing against detailed research and studies, but we have to consider whether it would not be more sensible to use the ECU 45 million available for the multiannual information programme to stimulate the establishment of the information society in order to implement projects of practical use.
Let me give you a concrete example: if the European tourist industry is to remain competitive in the next millennium we will have to create comprehensive electronic information and reservation systems.
The technical requirements for these kind of tourism marketing systems already exist; but because of its small-scale structures and fragmentation, the industry currently has neither the organizational ability nor the motivation to produce comprehensive, reliable and up-to-date information and reservation systems.
For the many small and medium-sized firms that, after all, represent the backbone of European tourism, the key to the success of tourism will be not just the supply of information but accurate and rapid information.
The tourists, i.e. the consumers of tourist products, book their holidays increasingly late and are becoming increasingly fussy.
The consumers naturally expect detailed information at the press of a button and last-minute booking facilities from their suppliers.
So we must encourage the development of networking between suppliers among themselves and in particular between suppliers and markets, especially travel agencies, but also directly with the consumer, for instance via the Internet, on a Europe-wide basis.
The European tourist industry must set up information and booking systems that can be accessed world-wide even in the most remote regions, which will also help protect and create jobs.
In the framework of the action plan, considerable progress could be made in this respect in the area of school education, motivation and the transfer of know-how, which would help make an industry that is constantly losing world-market shares become more competitive.
