Mr President, Commissioner Gradin, the right time to answer would, of course, have been before Mr Cot gave us his opinion, rather than later, but I can make allowances for you, Mrs Gradin, if you do not listen attentively to what the other groups in this Parliament also have to say on this subject.
I should also like my remark to be noted in the minutes.
I would just like to say once again, Madam Commissioner, that the correct time was, of course, after Mrs Gebhardt's question, but we can afford to be tolerant, provided that you will listen very attentively when the other groups are giving their opinion on this subject.
There is no dispute about the opportunities that biotechnology offers, and we must take advantage of them, and we must also be aware of our responsibilities as legislators in this field.
However, these opportunities can only be made use of if people have confidence in the technology, if they know that there are limits, based on clear, ethical grounds, beyond which no one must go, and if abuses, whatever form they take, are punished.
In this connection, it is certainly a good idea to set up an advisory group, drawing its members from various sources, both multi-disciplinary and multi-national.
The way in which this group operates, however, is unsatisfactory in the opinion of my group.
First of all, it is not transparent enough.
There is no clear structure, which lays down who says what within this working group, and as a result it depends very much on the people concerned, and in our confidence in them, and I have to say that our confidence in the persons involved, and in the chairman too, is not exactly strengthened when they give to the opinion of the European Parliament as little consideration as they have been doing in the last few weeks.
In March, we issued an unambiguous position on clones, and now we have the opinion of the group of advisers, and the difference between the two is very striking.
The European Parliament was overwhelmingly against any cloning, including at the embryo stage, and we believe that the use of the Dolly process on human beings should be made a criminal offence everywhere in the world, and at least in our Member States.
The group of advisers, however, has done some intricate manoeuvring here, and is proposing only implantation in the womb, and I believe that this is not at all what the European Parliament had in mind.
So our confidence in the group of advisers has to some extent been weakened.
This can have disastrous results, as we found, for example, in the case of gene manipulation.
The directive on the patenting of biotechnological discoveries was also a disaster because in the Conciliation Committee we agreed, by way of a compromise, to a form of words proposed by the group of advisers, which was clearly contrary to the opinion of Parliament, which has said that is against this type of manipulation, and not just for a specified time, but against it altogether.
In other words, no one took this opinion seriously.
We must be aware of the fact that the legislator has a certain amount of responsibility here, and we can only have confidence in the group of advisers if we know that they take our opinion seriously.
I wonder how the Commission can justify implementing the positions of the group of advisers in a ratio of 1: 1?
Naturally these are highly qualified people, but then we have such people here in Parliament too.
In my group, for instance, we have Professor Casini, who is a lawyer who has been involved with these issues for a long time.
Then there are the scientists Professor Trakatellis or Mrs Heinisch.
We also have plenty of theologians in this Parliament as well, and not only in our group.
What higher authority does Mrs Lannoye have, as a lawyer, which the lawyers here in this Parliament - who are involved with this type of work and who also derive authority from the fact that have been elected by the people - do not have?
Therefore I would ask the Commission to take our opinions more seriously than those of the group of advisers.
The group of advisers can give advice, and it can even give advice about problems, but the decision has to be made by the legislator, and if the Commission does not base its proposals on that fact, then there will be friction.
One last point: it is always argued that in the USA things are much more liberal, and that therefore we cannot be any more stringent.
In fact, on the question of embryo protection, the USA are more stringent than the group of advisers of the European Commission, because in the USA at least there is no public money for expensive embryo research.
And that does not exclude advisory groups.
So that argument does not cut any ice here either.
