Mr President, there are 37 million disabled people in the European Union.
Their scope for participating in the benefits of the European Union, in other words freedom of movement and access to all goods and services, is very limited.
As the organizations of disabled people have put it, they are the invisible citizens of the EU.
And violations of the human rights of people with disabilities are taking place repeatedly throughout the Union.
The Banotti report, which we adopted here in December, provided clear evidence of this.
It is therefore essential for a non-discrimination clause to be included as part of the revision of the Treaty.
Until the beginning of this year, we had the HELIOS II programme, which provided disabled people with opportunities for exchanges of information and experience.
This programme gave rise to the Disability Forum, which is doing valuable work at European level with and for those concerned.
So far, no new programme has been presented.
Already, on the grounds of subsidiarity, both the poverty programme and the programme for elderly people have not been put into effect.
The German Government does not accept Article 235 as the legal basis for social programmes.
Because that is so, the Commission has held back and not yet produced a successor programme to HELIOS II.
It wishes to wait for the final evaluation of the HELIOS II programme before taking action.
We believe that it is urgently necessary for a successor programme to be developed and implemented, a programme based on the principle of equality of opportunity, human rights and the UN Standard Rules.
In the meantime, the Commission has instead issued a communication by way of an interim solution, which we are discussing here today.
We welcome this communication on equality of opportunity, especially the new approach emerging from it, which reveals a human rights based concept of disability and moves away from the principle of paternalism.
This is a radical departure from the old thinking, which has viewed disabled people as objects of charity and pity.
It shifts away from the health model, in which the aim is to make amends, and towards the social model, based on human rights.
The policy on disabled people is now starting to be geared towards integration and equality of opportunity, in other words mainstreaming.
However, even an approach as good as the one in this communication does not necessarily lead to direct action.
Only with the help of a programme can there be a transfer of policy, information and experiences between Member States.
The HELIOS programme was the only one which directly financed the work of NGOs with the disabled and acted as a link for disabled people across the European Union.
The programme was helpful for disability groups where the incidence of disability is very low, such as deafblindness.
These groups depend on genuine European exchange to enable them to meet their needs.
It was the only programme which reached all groups of disabled people.
On this point, the interim evaluation said that it was important not to understate the problem HELIOS II was confronting, namely building solidarity and common strategies across such a diverse sector of Europe's population.
While I entirely support the Commission's stated objective of involving disabled people substantially in the management and implementation of the HORIZON programme, HORIZON alone cannot fulfil the role of a broadbased disability programme based on equal opportunities, since it is confined to employment and training only, and must be cofinanced.
As regards employment, strongly as my colleague has just described it and serious as the non-employment of disabled people is, employment is only one part of the daily challenges which disabled people have to cope with.
As one disabled person put it: ' It is all very well having jobs available, but many disabled people cannot get on the bus to go to work, or do not have someone to help them get ready for work' .
Until such time as disabled people have full integration into all policy areas, including adequate personal assistance and support services and accessible public transport, assurances that job opportunities are available will not, without adjustments to other measures, automatically ensure integration.
Also, a high percentage of disabled people are of retirement age.
Measures targeted on employment will therefore only reach a limited number of disabled people.
However, I also believe that the responsibility for disability policy should continue to rest principally with the Member States.
The European Union's role is to add value, and to assist the Member States through exchanges of information on best practice.
The European Union should also ensure that disabled people are included wherever the competence to legislate or make policy or programmes is already in its own hands.
This is the approach of mainstreaming, aimed at bringing about equality of opportunity for disabled people.
I would appeal to the Commission to go down this road, in other words to bring forward a successor programme to HELIOS as soon as possible.
And my appeal to the Member States is to incorporate a legal basis for this programme in the Treaty, together with a clause on non-discrimination.
