Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, equality between men and women often exists on paper only, with far too little reflection in reality.
Equal access to employment, education and advancement, equal pay and equivalent company welfare schemes have already been laid down in European directives.
But the rules of evidence for proving discrimination based on sex are unsatisfactory.
The snail's pace of progress - as Mrs Gröner so rightly described it - will only improve when the victims of discrimination are no longer required to prove it.
It must be a matter for those against whom the complaint is made to prove that they have followed the principle of equality.
The rules governing the burden of proof are still far from standardized between the Member States.
Common rules need to be agreed, and need to cover indirect discrimination as well as direct.
The discussions on the Ghilardotti report were anything but simple, both in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and in the Committee on Women's Rights - I am a member of both.
One situation that caused confusion, and still does, is that the Council seems long since to have begun discussing totally new proposals.
I absolutely agree with Mrs Glase here, and I would like to ask the Commissioner what basis we are now supposed to be using.
Problems still remain.
Article 5 - and I refer here especially to Article 5(b) - represents a radical interference with national legal systems.
However necessary it may be to have procedures that clearly establish what the facts are, it is still inadmissible for the right to information to become a pretext for a witch hunt.
The European People's Party cannot agree to some of the amendments.
To single out just one, Amendment No 8, whose definition of indirect discrimination goes far beyond ECJ case law.
In any case, an alleged internal necessity cannot be allowed to justify indirect discrimination.
Even so, we do agree with the objectives of Fiorella Ghilardotti's report.
It is intended to send a clear signal calling for the further reduction of discrimination and more equality of opportunity, especially in working life.
