Mr President, I should also like to make a personal statement.
Mr Liese accused me of lying.
He said that this regulation would not result in a kind of Russian roulette for consumers and people suffering from allergies.
The opposite is the truth!
You know that there are no health criteria.
But you also know that there are no methods of proof enabling the allergenicity of genetically modified foods to be established in advance.
At least the American health authorities recognize that.
In the absence of methods of proof enabling the allergenicity of genetically modified foods to be established in advance, the latter will be placed on the market and tested on consumers.
This is a particularly serious problem for people suffering from allergies.
As regards Mrs Roth-Behrendt's allegation, I did not accuse her of lying.
Mrs Flemming also indirectly criticized those who have doubts about this regulation, who have made it clear that there will not be 100 % labelling of genetically modified foods.
I gave the example of growth hormones produced by means of genetic engineering.
Even Mr Bangemann will admit that the use of these cannot be detected and that there are no methods of proof in this instance.
And yet they are genetically modified products.
I simply referred to the statement by the rapporteur, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, that this regulation offered total protection.
I believe, and other speakers have also made this point, that there is no such thing as total protection.
The relevant criteria do not exist.
I did not intend - and now Mrs Roth-Behrendt is not listening to me - to make a personal attack on the rapporteur, and I do not believe that I did so with any of my remarks.
However, it is my right as a Member of Parliament and as a consumer to draw attention here to the fact that there are no health criteria.
Consequently, it is simply not possible to say that we are ensuring health protection with this regulation.
I would ask you, Mrs Roth-Behrendt, to name the corresponding health criteria.
There are none set out in the regulation!
