President Santer spoke very sympathetically yesterday of the European Parliament's criticism of the Commission.
He admitted that the work of the Commission in past years has been highly inadequate and that none of the action which should have been taken to shield the citizens of the European Union from danger has actually been taken.
If this is recognized, Mr Santer, it must also have consequences.
It emerged from the meetings of the parliamentary Committee of Inquiry that some officials - even senior officials - of the Commission were obviously not prepared to cooperate with the European Parliament.
Officials such as Mr Legras or Mr Mansito even obstructed the work of the Committee of Inquiry, although they, as the head and deputy head respectively of Directorate-General VI, bear immediate responsibility for the defects that were discovered.
Such conduct must surely have consequences.
Officials who demonstrate incompetence cannot simply be allowed to continue in their posts.
In the case of Mr von Moltke of the Directorate-General for Tourism, as you know, the recent pressure exerted by the European Parliament was successful.
We must also mount the same sort of pressure against DG VI.
But of course we must not target officials as part of a strategy of catching the small fry and letting the big fish go free.
The Commission, and above all its President, must take political responsibility for the shortcomings of their institution.
The existence of BSE did not just come to light yesterday, as we all know.
Nor has the Santer Commission only been in office since yesterday.
To date there have been 16 deaths from BSE in Europe.
How many deaths would have been needed before the Commission took any action on its own initiative?
Political responsibility for the professional misconduct of civil servants always lies with the competent ministers, or in this case with the commissioners; that is a fine European, or at least British, tradition.
Commissioner Fischler should simply have mucked out his Augean stable sooner.
And he should not act now as if his predecessors had made all the mistakes.
The Green Group tabled a proposal for a 'suspended vote of no-confidence' in order to emphasize this political responsibility.
This threat seems to have been necessary to persuade Mr Santer to admit publicly for the first time to the glaring errors made by the present Commission and the previous one.
Other bodies, of course, have failed us.
The conduct of the British Government can only be described as malevolent and ignorant.
An action for damages against the United Kingdom (and that country's animal meal and meat industries) before the European Court of Justice in Luxembourg is the only appropriate response.
Mr Borchert and the other European agriculture ministers have also failed us.
They remained inactive far too long and placed economic interests above the lives of their citizens.
Responsibility for the BSE scandal, of course, also lies in the structures of the EU.
The single market has led to a reduction in the standard of consumer protection.
We Greens have always warned against the creation of an internal market without proper ecological and social safeguards.
But of course for the economic liberals in all parties, from Mrs Thatcher to Mr Bangemann, the deregulation of protective mechanisms has been the paramount aim.
We are now paying the penalty for this misguided form of European integration.
Effective control mechanisms for consumer protection have never been established; in the domain of agriculture the Commission has been its own judge and jury.
Simply setting up a new directorate-general for consumer protection within the Commission is far from enough.
It is high time we had an independent European food inspectorate.
And it is high time we had greater transparency and more rights for the European Parliament.
The meetings of all specialized committees of the Commission will have to be accessible to the public.
No-confidence motions against specific politically responsible Commissioners must also be permissible in future.
And the European Parliament must have a right of codetermination in future on all questions of agricultural policy.
And of course we need a completely different European agricultural policy.
The feeding of meat-and-bone meal to herbivores must be generally prohibited.
Such meal may only be fed if high safety standards are applied, which is not the case in Britain's deregulated agricultural industry.
Financial incentives must be created for welfareorientated animal husbandry and levies and conditions imposed for industrial mass production of livestock.
We Greens have always advocated organic farming and welfare-orientated husbandry and have been severely critical of European agricultural policy.
The BSE scandal, in this tragic manner, has now proved us right.
