Mr President, Mrs Baldi has presented us with a very detailed report reflecting what happened at the two meetings.
She deserves our thanks.
I welcome her detailed treatment of the various points, for example how important it was for the NGOs on the ACP side to join us in a discussion process, and that we adopted a clear stance towards Nigeria and that it was right to impose sanctions in that case.
That was also confirmed this week by the visit of Wole Soyinka, the winner of the Nobel Peace Prize.
I believe it should be emphasized that the ACP Assembly adopted an unambiguous position with regard to landmines - prohibition.
The production and exporting of land-mines are to be outlawed.
I agree, I believe we should accept that as an obligation and really ensure that no further production of land-mines takes place in our Member States.
But the other side, the development policy side, is important too.
Rehabilitation, caring for the victims, are obligations, and in fact I believe that those who produce these mines should be reminded of their duty.
Another aspect which Mrs Baldi mentions is the free trade area with southern Africa, Article 39.
I believe that the upshot of the ACP sessions will be that our negotiations with South Africa will be successful.
The essential point, of course, is the future of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly: the concept of parity, the concept of co-operation as a new form of future external policy, and the structuring of the European Union's foreign policy beyond the content of the Green Paper.
I should welcome it if the suggestions produced by this Assembly, and the ideas and proposals contained in the new Green Paper, were to contribute - with a view to Maastricht II and the future foreign policy - to our having a separate pillar or section that says we want a non-military foreign policy.
In reality, we now have a situation in which development aid funds are being cut back.
We have no power of co-decision over the ACP budget.
It is right that Mrs Baldi should point this out.
The Member States must understand - and we have said this before - that these funds are budgeted.
I believe all this should be combined together to form a non-military part of the budget.
That is the only way to offer these countries prospects for the future.
The rapporteur writes - correctly - that the ACP states include two-thirds of the world's poorest countries, and I know of no other assembly that consistently pursues these concepts of parity and dialogue and so helps to shape foreign policy.
We should retain that.
After the Green Paper, we must arrange a new form of co-operation with the ACP countries.
I believe we could also expand it to include a few other poorer countries, and that this forms part of the non-military sector of a European Union foreign policy.
