Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, forty years of the European Community represent both a historic success and a present obligation for us.
European integration is built on continuity and change.
If the Intergovernmental Conference is to achieve satisfactory results, the European Parliament, in accordance with the Dublin Document, must now formulate its position on controversial issues during the current negotiations and before the treaty is drafted in May.
Firstly, the European Union needs majority voting in the Council and, of course, parliamentary codecision for the whole range of ordinary legislation.
That is the key issue of the reforms, because the effectiveness of the Union depends on it.
Secondly, the EU also needs certain exceptions from the precept of concerted action, but only as a last resort, as a means of avoiding sustained obstruction.
This is also - regrettably, I might add - an unavoidable condition of our capacity for enlargement.
Thirdly, the EU needs team spirit, cooperation and movement - not flexibility; although that enigmatic term sounds good, it means nothing and leaves unbounded scope for interpretation.
That dilutes the acquis communautaire and leads to a Europe à la carte .
We must consider critically, and in some respects anxiously, the current state of negotiations at the Intergovernmental Conference, precisely because we want to make the Amsterdam summit a success.
We need that success, because 40 years of a European Community based on supranationality and solidarity could not, for example, prevent the Renault affair.
We all had to experience the brutality with which economic power was unleashed here against people's jobs and against the European welfare state.
We cannot continue to run along behind the decisions of multinational companies and suchlike; we have to pursue better policies, active policies.
That is exactly what the citizens of this Union expect of us.
It is also the very basis of democracy in Europe in the 21st century.
