Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the proposal it submitted on 6 December 1995 to amend the implementing directive the EU Commission is taking account of more than twenty years of worldwide experience in the use of genetic engineering.
In line with current international scientific knowledge it has introduced new and clearer distinctions, providing for four classes of risk instead of the former two, as is already the case in many European countries.
The proposal also abolishes the distinction between research and trade, which was not very useful in practice.
The proposed changes therefore bring greater simplicity and avoid any unnecessary red tape, since they make the administrative procedure as tight as is possible without sacrificing safety and the industry supports them almost without reservation.
This kind of safe cutting down on red tape is most important to the position of Europe in biotechnology.
To delay these changes would give European research and industry disadvantages in competition, in relation particularly to the USA and Japan, for no practical reason.
I welcome the Commission proposal and the opinion of the Committee on Research and I thank Mr Pompidou.
He managed to improve on the innovations in the Commission proposal with a few very good amendments, without affecting or even putting at risk the simplification and clarification that have been achieved.
Moreover, Mr Pompidou has successful demonstrated the great importance of this directive for European research establishments and managed to induce the Committee on the Environment to accept many of the proposals.
I think the amendment calling for liability insurance in relation to environmental damage would be difficult to carry through in practice.
Moreover, the Commission is in any case intending to draft a white paper on environmental liability, which it will be presenting shortly.
It is doubtful whether there is any point, given this situation, to anticipate the Commission proposal and run the risk of the various rules conflicting with each other.
