Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to extend my special thanks to the Presidentin-Office of the Council and to Commissioner Oreja, not only for their words to us today, but also because I have had the impression over recent months that they have both been prepared to look in detail at the arguments which Parliament has put forward, and indeed to implement a number of our proposals or contribute to their implementation.
I should like to thank them personally for that.
Over the years, I have listened here in the House to a number of great speeches by great Europeans, and in recent weeks I have found myself recalling two such addresses, one by former Italian President Sandro Pertini and one by Václav Havel.
Both speakers very clearly conveyed the idea that what we need is not a Europe of technocrats, but a Europe that is geared to meeting the needs of its citizens - at the service of its citizens.
When I see how intergovernmental negotiations work in practice, I sometimes have my doubts as to whether we actually measure up to that ideal.
It is becoming increasingly complicated and difficult to explain European decisions to the people of Europe, to give people the opportunity of understanding who is responsible for what and monitoring who is taking good or bad decisions, and to put across the idea that people can bring their own influence to bear in order to steer things in the right direction.
This brings me to the particular issue of the European Union's capacity for action, and the Intergovernmental Conference as a preparation for enlargement of the Union.
Everyone talks about extending majority decisionmaking, but everyone brings to the table their own set of exceptions, courtesy of the ministries of their national governments, and it is almost impossible for those in charge of the negotiations to prevent a zero-sum outcome.
Now, as the Intergovernmental Conference draws to an end, we should remember that the principle of unanimity is the principle of mistrust and lack of imagination.
The principle of unanimity is being maintained because there is a lack of trust between the partners, a fear of the majority deciding in a way that goes against individual national interests.
I think this must be seen as a painful truth, because everyone can cite their own examples of such mistrust, and I would refer to just a few points that serve to illustrate it.
The Council presidency is in fact seeking to extend qualified-majority voting in the area of commercial policy under Article 113 to decisions on services, investments and copyright, for example.
However, it is clear that the only way of making this work is by drawing up protocols and subprotocols setting out hundreds of exceptions - I exaggerate, but let us say a great many exceptions - and it is only subject to those exceptions that the members of the Council will be prepared to take decisions by a qualified majority.
If, then, it is to be the case that every time the principle of majority decision-making is extended on a particular issue, there has to be a special preliminary agreement in the form of a protocol, the end result will be a situation which - while it may empower the Union to act - will leave it legally hamstrung and rob it of all vitality.
And I could cite many more examples of such an outcome.
So what is the reality?
There have in fact been virtually no instances of a qualified-majority decision, even with regard to internal market legislation, where any country has had to sacrifice its national interests, or lost a vote.
Ultimately, even where decisions have been taken by qualified majority, the negotiations have still been conducted on the basis of the principle of consent.
Why, then, can this approach not also be applied in other areas?
What are the implications of this situation as regards enlargement?
A number of Member States have not yet considered the fact that positions which, in their own national interest, they have so far unanimously supported will have dramatically different implications in an enlarged Community - not least from the point of view of national interest.
In this context - and without going into any detail - I would mention the Structural Funds, for example.
We are still debating the principle of sovereignty, but still only in terms of its formal aspects rather than its real substance, and ordinary people are several steps ahead of us here.
In discussions concerning the third pillar and those aspects of the third pillar which should be brought under the Community umbrella, we often hear it said that this or that is not feasible and that national sovereignty is at stake.
Ordinary people have not the slightest interest in this.
My point is that they wish to see solutions to the problems we are facing, and what we need is a new form of politics, not a new form of bureaucracy.
In order to make progress, we need a European foreign and security policy which includes decision-making procedures.
But it must not be hedged around with so many provisos that the central idea of majority decision-making is undermined and overlayered by the principle of unanimity, thereby choking the whole apparatus.
We wish to see an improved social policy, basic rights and greater transparency.
The Intergovernmental Conference may be moving towards giving the European Parliament more rights, and we would like to hope that such a move would benefit not only Parliament, but the European Union as a whole.
