On behalf of my parliamentary group I should like to thank the representatives of the Council and the Commission most sincerely for their clear, frank words.
We shall certainly support you, Commissioner Marín, in your efforts to find money, which will be, and will have to be, used efficiently.
We are confronted here once more with a spiralling use of force which is difficult to break.
Thus we regret all the more emphatically that the Israeli Government has undertaken measures that increase yet again the conditions for force.
As Mr Marín has just said, the reply to the use of force that the Israeli Government has just given will naturally lead via more misery and greater problems for the Palestinian population to further escalation in the use of force.
This is not to say that such escalation can in any way be justified, supported or condoned, but it must be quite clear what responsibility the Israeli Government also bears for the overall development of the situation.
It is of course the settlements policy, above all, that was the starting point for the new spiral in the use of force.
We reject a settlements policy, which seeks to create a fait accompli before talks have even started and negotiations begin.
The present Israeli Government finds itself in a situation where it can no longer control the forces it has conjured up, because there now exist new activities that involve too great an intrusion, even for this Government, into the Palestinian area.
In this context, however, the question of land will have to be negotiated.
It is totally unacceptable that people who sell land, from Palestinians to Israelis, should be "punished' by death in a legal or illegal manner.
Yet it is obviously the right of any community and any country, particularly in such a difficult phase, to take steps to ensure that the peace process is not impeded again by arbitrary land sales.
I believe that here, too, one must find a solution by dialogue with the Israelis and the Palestinians.
As has already been said, the Israeli Government 's reaction to the use of a force that they had to resist was appropriate, but it was inappropriately intensive and it has created new conditions for force.
The financial restrictions, the restrictions on freedom of movement, lead a people to the point where even those who previously rejected the use of force now support it as the only way out of this situation.
I consider that to be catastrophic, and I hope that the measures announced by the Council and Commission, and also those presented today by Commissioner Marín, which I hope Parliament will approve, will at least cover the financial aspects.
The fact remains, though, that freedom of movement is being massively restricted here, and also that the only peace partner there is, Arafat and the PLO, is being divorced from the support of its own population.
I believe that this last point is very important, and I am delighted at the statement by the President of the Council.
We want an independent Palestinian State.
I think that is the only chance, and more and more groups in Israel are saying that themselves.
It has to be, however, a democratic state and one free from corruption.
I emphatically request that efforts be made so that we, as friends of the Palestinian people, may be assured that the new state to be established is a democratic one, and one that respects human rights.
I also request the Council and the Commission to ensure that the measure announced against corruption is also enforced, as no one in the European population will be prepared to spend a lot of money if there is the slightest suspicion that it will not arrive where it belongs, namely, with the people of Palestine.
