Madam President, I should like to use my speaking time to refer to some of the misunderstandings that have cropped up time and again in this debate, as on previous occasions.
Contrary to the perceptions of many Members, the Rothley report certainly does provide for the patentability of human genes and of flora and fauna.
I ask anyone who believes otherwise to read Articles 3(2) and 1b carefully.
Article 3(2) refers to a gene isolated from the human body, but it must be said that even an isolated human gene is still a gene.
Amendments 71 to 75, which Mrs Gebhardt and I have tabled, do not seek to prohibit patents; their purpose is only to exclude those patents that go too far, because medical patients and the treatment of serious diseases, as well as the job situation in Europe, are equally pressing concerns of ours.
Based on the principle of responsible research, our amendments certainly permit the patenting of processes and applications as well as of proteins, medicinal drugs, vaccines and many other products.
That should provide the European biotechnological industry with enough incentive and reward, and many of its representatives echo that assessment.
What we want to exclude is the applicability of product protection to primary genetic matter, both for ethical reasons and for research-policy considerations.
Knowledge of the ways in which the human body works should remain freely accessible to society.
It should not be the subject of exclusive property and exploitation rights.
Product protection of primary genetic matter will provide a few European companies, but chiefly American and Japanese corporations - simply because they will be quicker to react - with a European monopoly for many years to come.
They will then be able to prevent other enterprises from using the patented genetic material or charge them high licence fees.
My third point is that the proposed rules will also prove very costly for European farmers, for animal-breeders and plant-growers and consequently for consumers too.
Costly by European standards, but prohibitively expensive by Third World standards.
If animals and plants become patentable, and if such patents apply not only to the first generation but to all subsequent generations resulting from natural reproduction, even the envisaged farmer's privilege will be of little help.
I shall close by asking all Members of the House who are seeking to reconcile the various legitimate interests involved here to support our Amendments 71 to 75.
