Mr President, Mrs Gradin, ladies and gentlemen.
It is better to be with one another than against one another.
The friendly adjustment of Bulgaria's competition rules to bring them into line with the European Union is better than the possible use of trade-policy instruments against Bulgaria.
That could be the leitmotiv of Mrs Mann's excellent report, which she has just presented to us and which we now have to come to a decision on.
The Group of the European People's Party also emphatically supports the proposal for a joint position by the Council.
We agree that trade between the European Union and Bulgaria can be put on a fair footing by applying the proposed provisions, so that it can rapidly expand and improve.
This adjustment to existing Community law is an important step along Bulgaria's not so easy path towards membership of the European Union.
I therefore thoroughly support Mrs Mann's report.
However, perhaps I could just say something about the financial aid that we had do decide on this morning, without a debate, using the urgency procedure.
We believe that ECU 250 million over a running time of 10 years is an excellent starting aid for the new Bulgarian government, which is making a determined effort to reform the public budgets and to create the legal framework conditions for a social market economy.
The Prime Minister, Mr Kostov, and his Foreign Minister, in their talks with the Group of the European People's Party in Brussels last week, convinced us that the reforming powers that have come together in the new Democratic Union will quickly set about the task of modernizing the state and the economy.
We have asked the Commission to provide the necessary assistance in a rapid and nonbureaucratic manner, and thus help the Bulgarian people to emerge quickly from a serious economic crisis and come closer to joining the European Union.
However, today, on 13 June, we really cannot see why the Commission did not consult the Committee on External Economic Relations immediately after the adoption of its submission on 22 May.
The Committee on External Economic Relations would not have had any difficulty, at its meeting in May, in drawing up a report, and submitting it today.
Such negligence on the part of the Commission will not be tolerated by Parliament in future.
May I also ask Mrs Gradin, very nicely - she is, after all, not responsible for this - to ask Mr Van den Broek and Sir Leon Brittan to consult us quickly, in future, on similar cases, and to ensure that this farce of a procedure is not repeated.
