Madam President, Commissioner, I really would like to say that Commissioners in general, and Mr Marín in particular, deserve a certain fundamental respect from this House, and when one of them is no longer here we should show greater restraint.
I should like to make some comments on the resolution.
Let me say first of all that the Group of the Party of European Socialists in this House naturally condemns every violation of human rights unequivocally, including those in China, of which there is no shortage.
Secondly, I very much regret that the European Union was unable to adopt a common position on China.
To the previous speaker I should like to say that we also refuse to accept the argument that human rights are an internal matter.
We have the right, and indeed the duty, to concern ourselves with them throughout the world.
Nevertheless, we shall not be supporting this resolution, because its authors have unfortunately adopted a language and tone, especially in relation to the geographical, territorial and political situation, which are not acceptable to us and take no account of the fact that a genuine critical dialogue can be initiated with China.
The point is that if we speak here of Chinese territory and the annexed areas, if a distinction is made between China, Tibet, Inner Mongolia and eastern Turkestan, that sort of language, that sort of tone is no basis on which to seek the necessary dialogue with China, even though we must naturally criticize the infringement of human rights there and campaign wholeheartedly for their observance.
Every resolution should be taken seriously - we should not say, ' It's just a resolution' - so let us consider that, sooner or later, and not as a result of negotiations but by some less peaceful means, China might be dissolved into territories such as those mentioned here.
That is something I would not wish upon the world or upon Europe.
Had you really sought a common approach, another type of language would have been found, and we should have been able to support the resolution, but that, unfortunately, is not possible.
We shall therefore abstain from voting.
