Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, while the candidates for accession are being given more and more homework to do, the European Union has not yet succeeded in finishing its own.
The urgent need for ecologically and socially sustainable development has been disregarded.
The reforms, especially the reforms of the agricultural and economic policies, do not go far enough.
Confrontation in Europe has been eliminated, because we have conducted a tireless struggle in the east to ensure that democracy and codetermination become a reality throughout Europe.
It is a historic challenge, too, that now calls upon us to develop a democratic Europe, a Europe with no dividing lines.
Which is why I once again ask the Commission why it has shelved the option of involving all candidates in the accession talks.
Is this not a form of reclassification, separating those that are in from those that are out?
Are these the reasons why Parliament's call for the abolition of compulsory visas between Bulgaria and Romania has still not been heeded?
Especially where co-operation between the Baltic States is concerned, the singling out of one country would have disastrous consequences, because that co-operation combines very close economic ties with a zone of freedom of movement.
Possibly, any such strategy may even create new problems for these young governments when they attempt to justify to their peoples the heavy burden imposed on social equilibrium by the process of harmonization.
So what we need for enlargement is an efficient, institutional and unified framework structure for all candidates, and not just for foreign, internal and legal policy.
None of the associated states must have the impression of being excluded.
The economic co-operation between the EU and the accession candidates is still lacking in economic integration based on equal rights.
The EU still denies access to a good many products.
A crucial aspect of balanced development is participation in the wide range of measures to support the structural policy.
Integration in the EU must not be restricted to a political elite - great importance must be attached to the full involvement of every citizen.
From this angle, we are gravely concerned by the new statement of priorities in the PHARE programme.
Now we have the new, undemocratic model of immigration policy, which violates human rights, and the Schengen protocol being incorporated into the Treaty and then imposed on the candidates for accession.
They will thus serve as a buffer for the European heartland.
The Greens regard it as irresponsible for the EU to export its present internal and legal policies to the countries of central and eastern Europe, too.
The democratic rights of control held by Parliament and the Court of Justice should be the first basis of the Treaty.
For these young democracies, their experience of independent justice and a democratically accountable police force has been relatively short, yet they attach great importance to it.
