Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, high quality meat products must no longer remain just a catchword.
In the light of the extent of the BSE crisis, and continuation of the enormous market imbalance, an investigation into the common market organisation for beef is urgently needed.
The Agricultural Council has already agreed a package of measures designed to stabilise the beef market, influenced by the BSE crisis.
Throughout the debate on the sales market for the beef sector it must be remembered first and foremost that European farmers and their co-operatives are confronted by ever-stricter restrictions, such as those on landscape conservation, environmental protection, veterinary regulations, health authority hygiene standards and animal protection standards.
These often involve them in seriously increased costs.
This leads partly to a loss of competitiveness by EU producers both on the internal and external markets, because in many other countries strict standards are applied.
It is essential that appropriate measures are introduced in order to regain consumer confidence and encourage consumption.
Measures in support of specific sales campaigns are in my view one of the most cost-effective means of rebuilding market balance in the beef sector.
Even though Germany has more than a fifth of the European population, and German beef and veal production is about 20 % of the total EU production, only about 10 % of benefits from the EU sales promotion programme have so far flowed into our country.
This shows quite clearly that there is an urgent need for amendment to the draft regulation prepared by the Commission.
Principally, the planned financial means must be increased and distributed amongst Member States using objective criteria.
By objective criteria I mean beef production and beef consumption.
That means that Germany must have a share of at least 20 %.
This distribution criteria must be laid down in the Council regulation.
Furthermore, I believe it is urgently necessary to take into account different consumer preferences in the EU.
For regional peculiarities to be taken into account in the quality criteria, Member States and those involved in the economy must be given greater influence on, and more freedom in, the establishment of their own sales promotion programmes, even regional ones, which would be encouraged by EU funding.
We must achieve a situation whereby beef is not transported all across Europe.
We must think more about regional circulation, so that the consumer can buy local meat whose production he also knows.
It has been shown particularly in Germany that a mark of origin plays a central role in regaining consumer confidence.
For this reason a specific authorization should be introduced, allowing the advertisement of regional origins within the framework of the proposed programmes.
Quality meat products must no longer remain just a catchword.
For this more attention must be paid to the fact that in the EU concepts of quality and consumer preferences are very varied.
Bonus regulations detrimental to quality production, such as trimmings thickness regulations or second premiums for castrated male cattle, must receive urgent amendment.
Let me say finally, that you should all support a situation in which the expectations and requirements of the European consumer and producer receive better consideration than hitherto.
