Mr President, I should like to remind Commissioner Bangemann of his days as a social liberal, and to remind him too that social policy can look forward, and not just backward.
Economics is not a natural process.
It has to be constituted on the basis of social policy - the not particularly unreconstructed Marxist Polanyi called it 'embedding' - otherwise there is no way in which we can avoid certain destructive tendencies from the outset.
Now to the reports.
We too support both reports and congratulate our colleagues.
The harmonization of licences in the internal market certainly makes sense, though we regard the proposed six-week period as too short.
My answer to Mr Hoppenstedt is, of course, we would have to have a debate on space travel.
But that is not what we are doing.
As I see it, we must think back once again to Parliament's original position, because in this very House we have the problem of the worldwide monopoly which Mr Bangemann has rightly referred to here - I think the issue in question was on-line services.
That is the task in store for us.
Unless Europe is given a stronger role, unless the Commission has more opportunities to act, this trial run of the co-ordination procedure will prove something of a lame duck.
That is what I fear.
Even so, that is how we are going to have to do it, given the time pressure that has been put on us.
And I would like to say another word of criticism about that.
We are once again in a position where we have to decide on individual questions without really having time for a broad strategic debate.
That is annoying.
We really ought to be proceeding together, and the Commission's action programme clearly offers a framework for that.
But we also need to relate this to the detailed debates - the technical debates.
Unless we succeed in doing that, we shall constantly find ourselves in this kind of rushed situation, and that is a bad thing.
Even so, we are going to vote in favour now.
But I would like to make one more point: we must tackle the problem of the global monopoly.
We must tackle the problem of active, constructive involvement of the European Union within the World Trade Organization, and that will probably require more extensive rules than are to be found in this lame compromise.
