Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
I believe it is important that the part played by culture in regional development, as highlighted in this report, is always understood.
Article 128(4) of the treaty requires that the Community pay regard to the cultural aspects of its duties.
Only a few weeks ago German students at Witten University asked me about the possibility of realizing the following question: How can we make it possible for culture to be recognized amongst the activities of the European Union?
Is it, indeed, always reasonable for culture to be considered, even when the main concern is for economic aspects?
This report shows that there are indeed areas, as shown in the structural policy, in which culture may not at first glance appear to play a role, but in which closer inspection shows it to have a clear influence.
It has been shown, furthermore, that cultural projects are thoroughly compatible with the aims of the cohesion and development plans.
According to current regulations culture can only then be considered when it is part of the regional or local development plans for the creation of permanent jobs.
The development of our society shows that services and mobility continue to grow in importance.
The demand increases constantly for cultural aspects of tourism, because of ever more leisure time and raised expectations.
The cultural sector is, therefore, in other areas, such as in the media, a particularly dynamic part of the service industries that can also play a positive part in employment.
We should not forget, however, that cultural measures have a mainly indirect effect on employment.
It is questionable, therefore, if they can be as effective for employment as are direct investment measures.
According to the programme support of the structural funds, it is the role of the Member States and regions to give due weight to the enhancement of culture within the framework of over-all support.
In accordance with the subsidiarity principle it must also be left in future to Member States and regions as to how they value cultural activities.
