Mr President, the Committee on External Economic Relations welcomes the excellent report by Mr Needle.
My colleague Mr Dimitrakopoulos, for whom I am deputizing here today, has also drawn up an excellent opinion which you will find in the same document.
In this, he explains in great detail that regional integration does not conflict with the integration of world trade, but quite the opposite.
I think one has to make that point, because the successful regional cooperation which we have after all developed as a model here in Europe is constantly being questioned by globalization fanatics, who see it as conflicting with a worldwide system.
In this context, I would point out that the movement for European unity between the wars - the Pan-European movement - had two opponents: on the one hand the nationalists, and on the other the extreme supporters of the League of Nations, who claimed at the time that regional alliances were superfluous and that a world order should immediately be created.
We are having these same debates again today.
Interestingly, some people in Europe - where we support the regional alliance - are demanding that regional alliances of this kind should not be encouraged elsewhere in the world.
We in the European Union should not give our backing to this misjudgement.
Regional cooperation can put right many things which were done on behalf of Europe or by Europeans.
In Africa, artificial states have been created, and regional cooperation is a way of reconciling the ethnic problems which arise because these artificial lines were drawn.
Refugee flows can be controlled on a regional basis, as was done in an exemplary way in Thailand at the time of the war in Cambodia, or in Pakistan during the war in Afghanistan, when millions of people were assembled near their homeland - with our support, but on the spot - and from there could be more easily reintegrated into the structures of their native country.
So regional cooperation helps to bring about peace, and we therefore have to support it.
We must not do this by producing any kind of Utopian alliances or artificial creations, we must support it - and this is made very clear in the report - on the basis of natural trade flows, traditional links, and also common interests.
Because the fact is that a common policy does not just involve a common past - as is always conjured up nostalgically - but also a common future.
And we can shape that common future in the developing regions by encouraging the regional forces which are cooperating there: not by giving any kind of lectures, but through helping them to help themselves.
