Mr President, Europe is increasing as far as the age of its people is concerned.
Europe is decreasing as far as the number of its people is concerned.
Is our position in danger?
Are the data on which these developments are based even meaningful?
Can they be used to develop strategies?
In the Commission's second annual Report on the Demographic Situation it is clear that, in addition to the three generations that we have been familiar with up to now - young people in eduction, people of working age, and pensioners - a new generation is emerging, that of the over seventy-fives.
Their numbers are growing considerably.
It is a good thing that people are remaining active longer, thanks to medical progress and better health care provision.
On the other hand, however, there is a shortage of care, integration and solidarity.
This increase in age has serious consequences for our social security systems.
There are considerable differences of opinion between Member States, as well as considerable differences in distribution.
Matters at issue include the level of pensions, in one country basic protection, in another the essential performance-related element, here the lengthening of people's working lives, there the forced early retirement scheme, which operates at great cost to the tax-payer but which has led to hardly any additional jobs for young people.
As ever, women get less than their fair share when it comes to calculating pensions.
Of course measures have to be fundable, and so we have to say yes to the reform of social policy, but at the same time we must say no to the dismantling of social policy.
Mrs Boogerd-Quaak is to be congratulated on her report, which sets out specific priorities.
We agree with her about greater differentiation in the light of the vital regional differences between densely populated towns and isolated villages.
The effects on traffic planning, regional planning, housing policy and social policy are very grave, as are the effects on our European structural funds.
The amendments proposed by my group, the Group of the European People's Party, have been included almost without exception, and relate to the world of work.
Fewer and fewer people are employed here, though those that are employed are highly productive.
Bigger companies, in particular, are unfortunately sacrificing the experience factor.
Experience is becoming a handicap.
People are excluded or dismissed, instead of taking advantage of their knowledge, their meticulous work, and their reliability, and it is quite likely that their innovative potential is being totally underestimated.
Participation in the labour market must be extended.
This applies to younger people, the proportion of whom, in the total population, is declining drastically, though this is no excuse for 'running down' educational measures.
On the contrary, future opportunities are increased by a more broadly based basic education system, with many different qualifications and language skills.
The same applies to women, who are still just as disadvantaged as ever, in everything from pay to working hours.
What are we actually doing, in policy terms, to achieve a more child-friendly society, again in the light of the demographic data that have been described to us?
This is a broad field for European 'added value' , which could be used to coordinate national policies, to supplement them and - to stay with the metaphor - to fertilize them.
