I can second Mr Habsburg's words as far as the importance of traditional farming for our European continent is concerned.
At your age, however, Mr Habsburg, you really should consider whether you ought to join the Green Party, because with your proposals you are not in good company with the Christian Democrats.
This Christian Democratic Party has supported a policy here, and not only here, but in the national Parliament, which is heading in precisely the opposite direction: the destruction of those farms which you warn us we shall need.
A farm goes bankrupt every two minutes in Europe, and those are the smaller businesses.
Every year 500, 000 jobs are lost in European agriculture.
That is a shocking figure, and if we want to stop this, then we must either accept your concepts, or we must do what has always been Green agricultural policy, and declare support for the traditional farming as the aim of agricultural policy.
In that case we should not have to mention this report, which we have to deal with here, because, Mr Hallam, there are two possibilities for beating the system: one is that we join in monetary union, which you already mentioned.
The other system would be to withdraw from interventionism, state buying and export subventions.
Because these monetary measures and the offset measures being debated here are only necessary for areas and products to which intervention is applied.
These are, indeed, the classic market regulatory products not, for example, potatoes, not vegetables, not fruit, not the whole range of products which we in Baringdorf place on the direct-sales market, the direct path to producers and consumers, from our farm.
These are completely unaffected by variations in the exchange rate.
Nor do we benefit from offset payments which are affected by this monetary system, but we obtain our prices from the market; we get the prices from the quality of our products and from the awareness of our consumers that these products have a special value for them.
We see here increasingly that the value of the product is not merely measured by the quality intrinsic to it, which can be quantitively measured, but that these products are valued increasingly for their external quality - as one might call it: that there must be an agricultural structure to ensure that our old people do not become poor, that our variety of species is maintained, that there is a landscape with farming businesses and not one, as we can see in the former GDR, with farms devoid of any aesthetic value.
Europe's cultural achievements lie in rural areas and have their origins there.
Without wishing to blow our own trumpet, farmers made this culture, they were the basis of this culture.
If we attack this basis we should not be surprised if Europe's culture changes.
For this reason these monetary matters have a great deal to do with general development; so I should like to complain here that we are using the discussion on Agenda 2000 - which comes next and in which such hesitant attempts are being made to leave an intervention system for one producing quality products - as a way of submitting in the European Parliament the brave outline of a new agricultural policy lying beyond all agro-industrial logic.
Whoever then wishes to produce within a particular agro-industrial production for world markets - as authorized by our constitutional law and our free economic laws - may do so, but then, if you please, without state support.
And for those who maintain the culture and the landscape, who produce quality, who are in contact with the consumer, who are actually not responsible for the billions we now have to spend on BSE, there must be support.
The agricultural budget is not too high, agriculture is not too expensive.
The money is simply being spent incorrectly.
It is being spent against maintenance of the structure, instead of in support of it.
If we dare to make a courageous proposal here, and you, Mr Habsburg, reconsider the matter with the Green Party, then we shall be on the right path and your memory will be honoured.
Then it will be said that at his age he still did the right thing!
