Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, between 40 and 50 million people throughout the world are dependent on illegal drugs.
And that statistic conceals a host of grim individual stories.
There are many causes of drug dependency and drug dealing, and that is why an integrated approach is needed if we are to combat the problem.
One aspect which is frequently overlooked is the fact that development policy can also make a major contribution, and has to do so if the drugs problem is to be tackled successfully.
Poverty and underdevelopment are direct causes of illegal drug cultivation in the developing countries.
If no legal alternatives are available, it is easy for the mafia to step in.
Another problem that we often overlook is the fact that the drug trade and the large sums of money that it brings into a country lead to an artificial overvaluation of the currency.
This means that those who make their living from legal produce are doubly penalized, because their earning ability is reduced.
Once again, it does not pay to be honest.
In order to solve the drugs problem, therefore, some of the resources of development cooperation must also be brought into play.
The committee was unanimous in supporting this concept, and I should like to thank everyone who helped with the report.
In particular, I am grateful for the cooperation from the Commission, and for the efforts of my colleagues who collaborated on this report.
We managed not to complicate the issue of development policy with ideological arguments.
We did not engage in any debate on the principles involved in liberalizing drugs policy, because such a debate would have had little focus and would not really have solved any of the problems.
What, then, are the central concerns of the report and of the Committee on Development and Cooperation?
We wish to see the expression of a political will to get to grips with drugs in those countries with which we cooperate: in particular, national legislation on money laundering must be put in place and suitably monitored.
We wish to see a high degree of respect for human rights, and a recognition of the key role that women play in the process of alternative development.
We also support the Commission's initiative of cooperating with the United Nations in the fight against drugs.
As rapporteur, my main concern - shared by the committee - was to put the concept of alternative development at the top of the agenda.
Alternative development means giving people the chance to earn their living by cultivating legal produce, so that they no longer have to depend on illegal drug crops.
This may sound simple, but in practice it is very complicated.
The idea is not merely to replace coca or poppy fields with something else: we need an integrated concept.
Training must be available, marketing structures for other produce must exist, and there must be a means of transporting that produce.
Only when all this is in place will the concept of alternative development actually work.
Last year, I had the opportunity of seeing for myself a number of United Nations projects in Colombia which are also partly co-financed by the Community.
I was very impressed to see that it was possible to replace quite extensive acreages of illegal crops with legal ones and, in doing so, to offer people hope for the future.
But here too it is essential, first of all, that the rule of law should operate in the country at least to a minimum extent, and that those involved in the illegal drug trade should be penalized at some point.
The Council accepted a good deal of the report at first reading.
In particular, I think we should note that, after some initial problems, it stopped quibbling over the legal basis and recognized that Parliament had a right to be consulted.
Unfortunately, however, we did not reach agreement on every point, and that is why we are once again seeking clarification on the question of alternative development in particular.
Not only do we wish to see alternative development funded from this budget line; we are also calling for a systematic examination of the Community's other financial instruments and the European Development Fund to see if they can help to support the concept of alternative development.
The fact is that we must take a more committed approach in this area.
Of course, this also means that, far from cutting back on development aid, the fight against drugs is a further reason for increasing it.
If we fail to do so, the European Council statements on combating drugs will have little credibility.
