Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if what the press says is true, the Ministers of Agriculture held exploratory talks on this subject in Brussels on Monday.
Exploratory talks!
This battle over an electronic button in the ears of cattle is, in my view, a surefire means of breeding Euro-exasperation.
Why, I wonder, do we need so much time for the whole introduction process?
Besides the labelling of meat, it is planned to introduce computer-based identification of cattle in the EU.
The points at issue are when the measures should be introduced and whether they should be compulsory.
In my opinion, identification and labelling ought to be binding obligations for all Member States by the end of the millennium at the latest.
In Germany this is scheduled to take effect on 1 January 1998.
In many regions there are already successful programmes under which labels of origin are prescribed for meat products.
The use of a memory chip will make it possible to store all the necessary information on origin, breed and ownership.
The data may be retrieved at any time by means of a scanner.
Needless to say, Commissioner, I should not wish the electronic component to be found by the customer when he carves his Sunday joint at the lunch table, so the question of a sensible niche for the microchip, based on practical experience, will certainly have to be discussed somewhat sooner.
Sadly, however, I have to note that the secondary industries related to agriculture are not always equally interested in the transparency of markets.
The supply of beef of guaranteed origin still leaves much to be desired.
For that reason I have to ask what the cost of this proposed Regulation will be.
Its implementation will surely entail a considerable amount of expenditure in the Member States.
I believe that care must be taken to ensure that the hard-pressed agricultural sector in Europe is not burdened with excessively high costs.
The entire measure will be considerably cheaper than the bill we have run up over this whole BSE issue to date.
The funding of the new system from EU or national resources must, in my view, be legally guaranteed.
The planned official identification of animals imported from third countries should also take place immediately upon entry into the Community.
