Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is high time that the question of replenishing Socrates was put into a far broader political context.
It is, as we know, an excellent means of promoting the construction of Europe, because it creates, through encounter and exchange, an enduring basis for international understanding and helps to promote both the mobility and the qualification of young people in the education process and in their working lives.
But since an ever smaller number of applications for assistance can be approved and since the grants are sometimes embarrassingly paltry, which tends to make the programme socially exclusive, the case for replenishment is actually irrefutable.
I congratulate Mrs Pack on her report and her comments, including those on the funding target, and I should like to say that it is highly desirable that the States of Central and Eastern Europe should be fully involved in this programme at last.
If, however, the funding is not replenished, the exchange programmes in the countries of Western Europe will inevitably be curtailed.
Another reason why we need more resources - and I must emphasize this - is to alleviate the social shortcomings of the programme.
For example, more young people from small and medium-sized businesses ought to be given exchange opportunities.
To that end we shall have to devise a new structure for the awarding of grants.
Scarcely any of these young people will take part in exchange programmes on their own initiative and at their own expense.
The youngsters undergoing vocational training also need to encounter the cultures of their European neighbours as a practical exercise in tolerance and openness.
That is important if we really want to strike at the roots of the intolerance and xenophobia that are once more rearing their heads in Europe.
We must have scope, for example, to organize a greater number of exchange programmes within the framework of town-twinning arrangements.
Foreign languages are important in an increasingly internationalized world.
At the same time, the fact that just below one per cent of all students on vocational courses have taken part in such exchanges is unsatisfactory.
An increasingly global economy demands the globalization, in other words the internationalization, of the education process.
Our training standards are in competition today with those of other parts of the world.
This is where we Europeans shall have to win our spurs.
Education, mobility and job prospects are becoming ever more closely linked in a chain of cause and effect.
In that respect Socrates is also a contribution to employment policy in Europe.
