Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I believe we are in a difficult situation, and we are very well aware of it.
We know more or less what the panel's decision will be.
It will not look good for us.
We can more or less anticipate that, meaning that we should prepare ourselves for a strategy, as many colleagues have pointed out.
The second difficulty we see is that we are dealing not just with the USA and Canada but with other meatproducing countries too, such as Argentina, South Africa and Australia; there are others too.
That means that in future we will have to consider a much further-reaching strategy, which will have to encompass an entirely new agricultural policy, an entirely new trade policy and an entirely new consumer protection policy.
In fact we missed the opportunity to start a debate on this subject at the last WTO round.
Let me remind Members that we opened up a new area by introducing trade and environmental questions into the conference in Singapore; similarly we should of course have tried to open a debate on trade and health and on trade and consumer protection at the last WTO round.
It is essential that we do so if there is a next round.
We do not know whether there will be one, but we will have to act promptly to introduce these ideas into the WTO discussions.
We will have to go even further than this.
We will have to consider crucial questions.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt rightly pointed out that we need to hold discussions with our partners and that we will have to discuss how on the one hand we can ensure free trade, which of course we do not want to disturb and which also protects our own producers, while on the other hand we can maintain very divergent cultural perceptions of different levels of protection.
How can that be reconciled in future, and when will we have these kinds of rules?
I know these are fairly difficult questions, but I believe we must tackle them promptly.
I am assuming that in any case the Commission will go to the court of appeal.
Then we will definitely have a chance to underpin this strategy by the findings of new scientific research.
