Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in days of cash shortages and strict budgets, environmental policy has a particularly hard time.
Effective environmental legislation does not come cheap.
Even if it pays off in the long run, over a period of years, it is unrewarding at the time.
Anyway, we are all very well aware that legislation is necessary, even if it is sometimes less than ideal.
And we know, too, that it is not enough.
For years, the European Parliament and its Environment Committee have been trying to find and apply new instruments to advance the aims of environmental protection.
From this standpoint, the environmental protection agreement is an extremely interesting instrument.
Many of our Member States already have experience of it.
Mrs Oomen would certainly have been able to give you some examples from the Netherlands if she had been able to speak tonight, but unfortunately she cannot be here.
It is important, too, to realize that although the agreements are entered into voluntarily they can also provide positive incentives.
They stimulate the imagination, suggesting completely new ways of protecting the environment and solving, or at least tackling, problems which legislation cannot deal with effectively, if at all.
For example, there are environmental hazards which arise only in particular Member States, and perhaps only for a handful of producers in those States.
The cost of solving such problems by EU-wide legislation would be totally disproportionate to the cost of an agreement that could be handled very quickly within the small circle involved.
Environmental agreements are no substitute for legislation - I agree with you there -but they can be an outstanding complement to it, and increase willingness to do more to protect the environment without introducing compulsion.
I regard environmental agreements as arrangements between industrial sectors or companies and the authorities, designed to reduce or prevent damage to the environment.
In some cases they are even a key to success, doing a great deal of good to the image of a whole sector of production.
In any criticism of that, we should help to point out existing shortcomings and weaknesses and, in some cases, even use them as a springboard for later legislation, if possible.
Where I come from, we have the so-called Environment Pact for Bavaria, which helps to reduce the quantity of waste produced, promotes the development of efficient energy use and boosts environmental management in industrial concerns and elsewhere.
The eco-audit is one such approach, and that eco-audit has done a great deal to bring about a situation where thousands of enterprises have now declared their willingness to play an active part here.
We do still need a contribution for the sector-, material- and product-related systems, and environmental agreements would be a way of achieving that.
I have no doubt that prohibitions and provisions of environmental policy are inadequate to solve the present problems.
But I do believe that the Commission communication is a start, and we should try to take full advantage of all possibilities within the European Union.
