Madam President, Commissioner, it is very unlikely that bees and honey are going to hit the headlines in Europe.
Who cares that commercial and part-time beekeepers are having a hard time of it?
Who cares that the situation of apiculture is becoming disastrous in many regions?
Who cares that there are hardly any young beekeepers to take over?
Who is even aware that there have to be enough bees to provide the pollination that is ecologically and economically so important?
Honey is produced at such low costs in third countries that the European producers are coming under increasing pressure.
The Commission wants to agree to only ECU 15 m by way of financial support, and the bulk of that, ECU 11.6 million, is earmarked for measures to combat varroasis.
Like the rapporteur, I urge the Commission to incorporate that measure into EU veterinary policy.
It should also be funded under that policy.
As far as the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development is concerned, this is a half-hearted Commission proposal.
The Committee declared itself in favour of the pollination premium and the compensatory payments for loss of income, but also for apiculture to be included in the compensatory payment arrangements under the regulation on improving the efficiency of agricultural structures.
There are those who wrongly imagine honey to be an industrial product.
But honey is a natural food that reaches the consumer's table without being processed.
It is an unadulterated agricultural product.
We need to have in the EU a comprehensive general scheme to ensure that the profitability of the sector is also guaranteed.
The so-called mature European consumer, Commissioner Fischler, could steer the market by his purchasing policy once the uniform marketing rules for Community and imported honey have been introduced.
Consumers must know what they are buying.
I am therefore in favour of completely clear labelling.
Let me make one further point: I did not this afternoon dress as appropriately as Mrs Lulling, who looks the bee's knees.
But you will be aware that the bee is the emblem of the German association of women in agriculture, and women in agriculture in Germany share all the characteristics of the bee.
I do not think that we are very spectacular either.
But it may be that 'bees and honey' is the theme for the future.
You can join us, Mr Kindermann!
(Applause)
