Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are dealing, by urgent procedure, with the Commission proposal to postpone the time limit for presenting applications for permanent abandonment premiums by one month, i.e. from 31 December 1996 to 31 January 1997 - note January, despite the fact that today's date is 14 March.
My group, the PPE, supports Mr Martin's report.
Mr Martin is proposing that the time limit should be postponed not by one month, but by three.
This certainly makes sense, not only because the time limit has already expired anyway, but also because Member States are experiencing real difficulties in implementing the set-aside scheme.
As a result of the changes introduced in 1996 by Regulation No 1595, set-aside quotas were allocated to Member States for the first time.
For example, my country, Germany, was given only 50 ha for the permanent abandonment of wine-growing areas.
Major problems arise simply from the question of how this small area is to be distributed among the 13 wine-growing regions.
It must be possible to transfer areas for which no application for abandonment was made in 1996/97 to the following wine year, so that the grubbing-up quota does not lapse.
The permanent abandonment of wine-growing areas, and thus the withdrawal of areas from wine-production, is a measure intended to stabilize the wine market in Europe.
The structural surpluses in the EU still amount to about 15 million hectolitres.
The first market-regulating instrument in the case of wine has to be sales promotion.
We must make every effort to maintain our market shares, and also to increase our exports.
Only in this way can we protect jobs in Europe, and only in this way can we guarantee that our culture and our cultivated landscape are preserved.
In the European Parliament, we have asked for financial resources for wine sales promotion, as part of the new arrangements for the organization of the wine market.
The reform of the organization of the wine market still leaves much to be desired.
Fundamental changes are needed.
What we are doing now is a mere patching-up exercise.
Grubbing up vineyards without offering any alternatives for individual regions may be the ruin of those regions.
This would, of necessity, result in structural compensatory measures.
Wine production is an economic factor in Europe.
Good wines are produced throughout the world, and they are penetrating our markets, both inside and outside the EU.
By unilaterally withdrawing from the market, we are losing not only economic potential and jobs, but also a piece of our cultural identity.
Market regulation must be tackled with moderation and understanding, and the permanent abandonment of wine-growing areas must always be done - and here I agree with Mr Martin - on a purely voluntary basis.
It must also be possible to control it in such a way as to ensure that it is the less successful sites, and those sites that do not help to shape our cultivated landscape, that can be taken out of production.
