Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish particularly to make the point that these reports on the introduction of the euro call both for employment policy and for the democratic rights of the European Parliament to participate and exercise supervision to be taken properly into account.
I am also grateful for the preparatory work that was done by the European Monetary Institute and its president, Mr Lamfalussy, as this will provide a sound basis on which to build further, However, recent developments illustrate just how critical the situation is.
The position of France has shed light on a number of things and is a warning to us to proceed with particular caution.
The fact is that every economic and monetary policy measure must be geared to citizens.
We need a socially responsible Europe and not a Europe founded on capital alone because capital alone undermines positive integration - and I mean capital alone, please do not misunderstand me.
Those then are the purely political considerations.
The European Monetary Institute's report on 'Single Monetary Policy in Stage Three - Specification of the operational framework' , concerning the introduction of the euro, has for the moment to be seen as a proposal: not until the European Central Bank has been set up can final decisions be taken.
At any rate - and this is fundamental - we are already staking out the course for the monetary policy strategy which the ECB will need to evolve and pursue.
Over and above that, particular sensitivity and transparency is needed in Stage Three particularly.
Not only has there to be a guarantee that it will operate seamlessly and smoothly, the internal barriers to the single currency that actually exist in all the Member States will have to be removed.
There has to be wide acceptance of all measures relating to the single currency policy of the ESCB.
In the final analysis, it has to seem credible to the public generally.
I wish, in passing, to make a very personal comment on the convergence criteria: the very fact that yet another stability pact has been devised demonstrates a failure to appreciate how integration is achieved in the process of European development.
But that has now happened.
The concept of a hierarchy with one person in charge, telling everyone else what to do is certainly not what is needed here.
Penalties that appear to be a slap on the wrist will not help the financially weak countries and will inevitably impede the integration process.
Introducing the single currency does not simply depend on whether the countries concerned are economically ready for it; it is, far more importantly, a question of our perception of democratic development.
If we are to be able to develop the framework conditions in a sensible manner, we need a combination of tried and tested monetary policy strategies able to be applied by all the Member States.
When it comes to converting monetary policy, it will be essential to apply different data and early indicators - of the kind we have for inflation targeting.
That means that there has to be an operational framework for monetary policy.
It makes sense to include inflation targeting as a strategy at the point of transition because we have to take account of uncertainties, particularly the unpredictable portfolio decisions of financial market operators.
As we move over to the euro our approach has therefore to be very pragmatic and be an amalgam of both complete transparency of the money supply objective and the variety of information provided by the inflation target.
I also believe that it is crucial to coordinate the exchange rate target, for which the ministers of finance are responsible, as far as possible through permanent consultation arrangements - possibly in the future Economic and Financial Committee or in some other way - with the European Central Bank.
I do not consider it appropriate in that context always to be talking in terms of black and white, of hard and soft currencies, particularly when, in the background, we are considering and fixing exchange rate mechanisms.
What is actually needed is to create a stable currency that meets our needs in the global currency context.
That is what we are aiming for.
Alongside monetary policy strategies, instruments for conversion and the effectiveness of those same instruments are a vital precondition if we are to convert smoothly to or introduce the system as a whole.
Monetary policy instruments have to be applied decentrally, and this means that monetary policy has to be implemented decentralized basis, relying solely on the experience of the issuing banks.
Wishing particularly to emphasize transparency in my report, I have to reiterate that the European Central Bank has to have a special duty of accountability in relation to the European institutions and the European Parliament.
The economic dialogue with the ECB has to be placed on an institutional footing.
This is not a matter of political intervention but primarily involves exchanging information at an early stage.
That is the only way in which we can guarantee a prompt response in monetary policy.
