Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the Commission, we all hoped that another urgent debate on the political situation in Belarus would not be necessary.
We hoped that President Lukashenko would find the path of reason from the irrational route he himself had chosen to follow.
We hoped that the long-overdue acceptance of democratic ground rules in Belarus would become a reality.
There are many models of democracy, but all of them accept fundamental human rights such as respect for the democratically elected Parliament, freedom of speech and assembly, freedom of the press and the exercise of democratic control.
Human rights and the exercise of democratic civil liberties are not a luxury reserved for decadent Western societies which cannot afford to have countries undergoing political and economic upheaval.
They are the civil rights of a humane global community.
Critical ideas are the salt of a vibrant open society.
Freedom is for everyone.
We hoped that a solution would develop which would reflect the situation before the referendum.
We hoped that sweeping economic reforms would be introduced, so that the financial and economic aid packages assembled by the IMF, the World Bank, the European Union and the United States could finally be put into effect.
We hoped that the partnership and cooperation agreement as well as the interim agreement between the European Union and Belarus could be implemented.
The aim of our European policy is not isolation but rather the fulfilment of our responsibility to use financial and economic aid measures in support of our ideas.
The attempt to foster closer regional cooperation between two friendly States such as Russia and Belarus is legitimate.
It is to be feared, however, that this union treaty is a geopolitical defensive strategy against the eastward enlargement of NATO.
Mr Primakov has already spoken of lessening the impact of the NATO enlargement.
My concern is that this is playing on national fears and that the surrender of national sovereignty might one day appear desirable.
Regional approaches and cooperative arrangements should not be defensive strategies but should allow each party to develop as a reliable partner of all neighbouring States, of the European Union, the United States and other international partners and of international institutions such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, all of which are prepared to help in what is admittedly an incredibly complex and historically unparalleled process of integration into an existing world economic system.
It is to be hoped that the present draft treaty between Russia and Belarus will lead to a broad national debate, a debate which should be open, democratic and controversial.
We call on the Commission to use the joint statement to examine the impact of these developments on our agreements, and we ask the Commission explicitly to include this examination in the mandate of its joint factfinding mission with the Council and to inform us of the results.
In addition, the report of the fact-finding mission should be delivered to Parliament as soon as it is available.
