Mr President, we consider it extremely important that, as part of these measures, the European Union should fulfil the commitments it entered into at the Cairo conference on population and development, and do so on a scale that will effectively enable the provision of widespread access to family planning in the developing countries.
On that basis, my group will back the report which has been tabled, and we hope that it will be adopted in a form which does not entail a one-sided view of the world.
I cannot conceal the fact that we had a controversial vote in the Committee on Development on certain amendments which have now been tabled again in plenary.
We share the concern of the PPE Group that developing countries should be equally entitled to participate in tendering, and to that extent there is no disagreement here.
However, we wish to make it quite clear that our group is not prepared to support those amendments that seek to promote a very one-sided view of the world.
It remains to be seen how the House will vote.
I should like to return to the question of the UN conference in Cairo, since we believe that this conference represented a significant step forward in terms of opinion forming, and contributed to raising awareness and making people realize that we have to achieve slower population growth if we are to avoid the unfortunate situation that exists in many developing countries, where improved economic growth is outpaced and eaten up by population growth.
There is no disagreement on the fact that compulsory measures should have no part to play here, but on the other hand we believe that we should not lay down too many preconditions which involve interfering in the internal affairs of other countries.
Ultimately, what we are dealing with is an extremely wide range of attitudes among people of different cultures, and it is not for us to lay down more preconditions than are absolutely necessary.
One piece of progress in Cairo which, as a feminist politician, I should particularly like to mention was the agreement by the conference that women themselves can decide freely how many children they want, and when they want to have them.
This consideration also conditions our view of the report, and we should like to see it adopted in that spirit.
