Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whatever is possible is permissible here.
Is it right, Mr Rothley, to allow things just because they are possible?
We are debating principles today in a debate which transcends boundaries but for which quite new boundaries need to be set.
At the heart of this debate is nothing less than responsibility.
It is about morals and ethics.
It is about the value of life.
It is about the inviolability of nature.
It is about human rights.
Do this call for growth and progress and the illusory promise of more jobs not represent a threat to social welfare and the rule of law?
Do they not undermine the principle of respect for nature?
The patenting of living organisms and rejection of the inviolability of the individual are the result of an overweening arrogance that no longer knows any bounds.
Who do we think we are, regarding evolution as private property and claiming ownership rights in respect of a life that has evolved over millions of years into millions of living organisms, our common heritage with its indescribable wealth of biological diversity?
Who do we think we are, believing we are entitled to set ourselves above the flora and fauna of this world in order finally to enslave humankind and turn people into exploitable commodities, into mere biological material?
Responsibility towards ourselves and our children's children can only mean strict and consistent rejection.
No patents for genes, plants, animals, people or their constituent parts!
We are committed to freedom of research and development.
But we are opposed to any situation in which this freedom is liable to be restricted by excessive patenting, by the inaccessibility of scientific knowledge, due to its having become the preserve of individual groups of companies and hence of economic interests, and in which the right to acquire and share knowledge is a question of money.
And we are committed to morality in politics.
Above all else, morality means independence.
We are not the caretakers of an unbridled competitive ideology in which policies are subordinated and attuned to these interests.
I appeal to our social responsibility, which is something other than subjugation to the policies of BASF, Boehringer or whatever they are all called.
I should have liked to see some of this independence from the rapporteur, because the separation of politics and morality can only result in immoral policies.
