Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, this non-paper contains a chapter which claims to deal with an effective and coherent foreign policy.
It is quite obvious to everyone, I would think, that we are in no position to talk about coherent and effective foreign policy at the present time.
Whether we look at Albania or at the situation in the Democratic Republic of Congo, we see Europe - where it actually manages to do anything at all - trailing permanently behind.
The very mention of the Democratic Republic of Congo points up one aspect in particular: at a time when Europe was still in many respects allied with the former regime, a regime which people associated with corruption and personal gain, America was already negotiating with the incoming regime for mining rights and other economic advantages.
It is clear, therefore, just how important a common and coherent foreign policy is, and - unlike some other people - I believe that the activities of the Dutch presidency have been instrumental in achieving progress on a number of fronts.
However, various critical observations are in order here.
In the chapter which sets out to define foreign policy, I am sorry that not enough attention has been given to the question of prevention - how to avert crises, and the need to take appropriate measures - and that the focus is exclusively on the EU and WEU.
It must also be clear that unity in its broadest, long-term sense cannot be allowed to mean giving the armed forces a greater say within the EU; on the contrary, I believe that civilian elements which are geared to the tasks of peace must be given appropriate weight, in relation to the EU as elsewhere.
As for the proposals from the troika, in my view it is right to set out what are in some respects transitional measures here, and I do not think that the powers of the Commission are being reduced; on the contrary, I believe that it is also very important for the Commission to be in a position of strength.
What has been said about the decision-making process is important too.
However, I do have one criticism here, and I wonder how the presidency sees this point: on the one hand we have unanimity, with constructive abstention, and that is as it should be.
Then, when we come to implementation, we have decisions by qualified majority, and here there is another opportunity for countries to block the procedure temporarily at least - for national reasons, of course.
While I appreciate that this is a controversial area, I do not quite see how on the one hand we can have a common foreign policy, while on the other hand this same policy can be obstructed by national interest.
It is my firm belief that, once decision-making procedures exist, it should not then be possible for individual Member States to block those procedures on grounds of national interest.
The same is true in relation to the chapter on foreign and security policy, and in other areas too: Parliament's role is grossly undervalued.
This House has demonstrated - not least through some very recent decisions - that it is prepared to cooperate constructively on foreign policy.
I would therefore call on the Council to give Parliament a voice - in other words, to give the democratically elected representatives of the people a voice - on foreign policy, as on other issues.
