Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the PHARE programme is, in my view, a legitimate child of the European Parliament.
A few courageous colleagues put the available budgetary resources together at the end of the 1980s to promote the economic modernization of Hungary and Poland, countries which at that time were just trying to extricate themselves from the domination of the Soviet Union.
Of course modernizing the economy means restructuring the economy with a view to a social market economy.
We are very keen for the PHARE programme to be successful and to be integrated in the next few years in a longterm pre-accession strategy, which will also be reflected in differentiated form in Agenda 2000.
But, and here I agree with the rapporteur Mr Wiersma, we cannot yet tell whether the PHARE resources are now being used more efficiently than they were in the beginning, whether they are being oversubscribed or are inadequate, whether the misdirection of funds mainly towards EU consultants that occurred in the initial phase has now been corrected.
When you look at the well-presented reports you would think they were drawn up by an industrial association, although with the difference that they do not summarize the statistics of success but give statistics on expenditure that shows no prospects of success and no background of success.
Of course that makes it difficult for the European Parliament, which attaches very great value to the favourable development of the PHARE programme, to monitor them.
So we also think that there is no point in the long run in drafting reports of this kind but that we must change the monitoring systems, as the Hungarian president proposed a few days ago in the joint parliamentary committee.
Mr Horn thought we should provide for a global pre-accession programme that would make the INTERREG funding, the PHARE funding and the European Investment Bank funding transparent while at the same time giving the European Union and the country concerned a chance to use the funds in a manner likely to promise success.
The question is whether that is the right road to follow.
We all have our own experiences.
Perhaps it would be an idea for the Commission to check what happened with the human resources funding in Romania, as part of the PHARE programme.
If you look at the composition of the Romanian parliament and government now, you will find a large number of young politicians who were initially given assistance in their capacity of members of unions or associations and now hold important political offices and also form part of the Romanian political elite.
That is an example we can only look at on the basis of own experience.
But we believe there must be other means of making the successes, which PHARE has certainly had, more visible in the long term, both for the Commission, which has to build on them, and for the European Parliament, which must monitor this expenditure more efficiently.
