Mr President, the question about set-aside prompts me to mention two or three things.
First, the debate regarding the set-aside rate for the end of 1998 is still merely speculative, although farmers are supposed to know where they stand as soon as possible.
For example, France is calling for a zero set-aside rate.
The Commissioner talks about a maximum of 17.5 %.
From the German standpoint, I am bound to say that we cannot share these views.
Why?
We must expect the cereal harvest to reach a similar level to that of 1996, but there are already indications that the enormous increase in the use of cereal feeds last year is being reversed, while export projections are, as you know, anything but a reliable guide.
Whatever happens, then - and I particularly emphasize this for the benefit of members of the Socialist Group, though Mr Rehder has unfortunately left - we must adhere to the instrument of cyclical and, especially, voluntary set-aside.
Any reduction in voluntary set-aside, especially, would be impossible to explain to our farmers at home.
As you know, we can offset 85 % of any voluntary set-aside against overcultivation of the major crop.
That brings me to my second point.
In the autumn of 1995, Commissioner, you told the Council of Agriculture Ministers that a national offsetting option for the basic land area would be in existence by as early as the end of 1996.
You then deferred your latest proposal on this problem until after the 1996 harvest, and it was the subject of proposed amendments by the Member States concerned, including Germany and France, which the Commission has not yet accepted.
I ask that you finally put into practice the political promises you made in autumn 1995, and that you do so in time for the 1997 balance.
And a final word on your over-compensation, which I have mentioned before.
Create the same situation as for the oilseed subsidy, and then take all the money left over for improvements in livestock production.
Then you'll find we're on your side!
