Mr President, Commissioner, a development intended to provide sustainable security for social and ecological needs is to be welcomed.
This report, of course, goes far beyond matters of R & D, representing an unworldly attempt to replace the Western social market economy with a green planned economy in which the European Parliament would have the necessary powers of implementation and control.
But the kind of sustainable development we imagine should not be based on Utopian models but must take account of global reality.
It can only be achieved, then, if the present situation is reformed.
A revolutionary change in the economic model, which is what the report calls for, involves incalculable risks and is therefore irresponsible.
The report postulates a dichotomy between technological progress and sustainable development.
Yet one is impossible without the other.
Sustainable development, then, is not synonymous with 'back to nature' ; that would simply be a romantic whimsy, divorced from reality.
Moreover, the rapporteur must acknowledge that the change of model for which the report calls is already taking place, though through a process of reform rather than radical action.
The report also fails to take account of the fact that environmental protection measures can only be financed by a functioning economy.
Environmental protection demands great economic efforts.
Another point that seems important to me: for the countries of the EU and other industrialized States, the concept of sustainable development encompasses economic and social aspects as well as ecological ones.
The most urgent problem of the present time - high unemployment - therefore requires particularly careful attention.
But jobs can be created only where a policy of sustainability can be pursued without sacrificing economy.
The report underestimates the benefits research and development can bring to the employment market and the welfare state.
Similarly, it is not realistic to hold science and technology responsible for wrong turnings in industry and society.
This standpoint has long been recognized as outmoded and misguided.
In actual fact, the position is that science and technology offer opportunities that can only be realized through political, social and economic decisions.
There are many other points I could make.
Overall, the report contains a wealth of errors and inaccuracies.
Also, lengthy passages of it are couched in very general terms and confined to Utopian demands remote from political and social reality.
Insufficient account is taken of the global character of science, technology, economics and environmental protection, and many of the proposals, if implemented, could actually be significantly disadvantageous to the EU without achieving that sustainable development at which we are all aiming.
Consequently, our group cannot vote for the report in its present form.
