Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, do you recall the atmosphere in December?
How we looked forward, Mr Santer, to the presents that we were due to receive in Dublin!
Then everything was suddenly very festive - I must admit that I only saw it on television myself - and it was time to hand out the gifts.
The Euro-Santas opened their sacks and distributed presents as the cameras rolled.
Do you remember?
John Major was pleased because he got everything he had wanted.
Mr Chirac said that Dublin had given us an image of a new Europe.
Chancellor Kohl made some suitably seasonal remarks about the caravan moving on.
Mr Bruton and Mr Santer, I am glad to say, spared a thought for those people excluded by society, and said that unemployment was unacceptably high and respected no national borders.
Everyone was so happy and content and full of Christmas spirit, it was almost too good to be true.
The words that came into my mind at the time were different: very different indeed, and more honest.
They were spoken not by any of the representatives at the summit, but by someone else altogether.
Politics, this person said, could be defined as the implementation of economic goals with the help of legislation.
The speaker was Kurt Tucholsky in 1919, and he represented no government, but he might have said the same thing had he been sitting round the afternoon tea table in Dublin Castle.
His incisive comment accurately reflects what became of the desperately needed and much-heralded project of reform.
It became a project to assist the functioning of the economy even further; a project in which basic universal rights have been reduced to mere aspirations and - as Mr Bruton said - postponed to some indeterminate date in the future; a project that limits the Eastern European countries' involvement in Europe to the role of auxiliary policemen in the fight against organized crime.
Of course, the main theme in Dublin was growth.
I also wish to see growth, and plenty of it - but growth of a very different kind.
Instead of growing profits and growing environmental damage, I wish to see growth in democracy and social justice, and a more sensible approach to the environment.
I wish to see Europe growing and therefore I wish to see it as an entity, and those objectives are linked, neither takes precedence over the other.
This kind of Europe urgently needs a basis of democracy and the rule of law for the benefit of its people.
The document that was drawn up for the Intergovernmental Conference also refers to the benefit of the people, but only on the title page.
The text itself really has very little to do with democracy: it proposes no increase in transparency or consultation, no increase in rights of participation, nor in democratic control.
I ask you: is it not deceitful for the Heads of Government to play the role of European democrats at home and then to support undemocratic goings-on in Dublin?
The truth is that the stability pact which was agreed in Dublin is a kind of works constitution for what might be called the European Union plc - a company governed by rigid stability rules, according to a code of its own.
Firstly, the EU as a location for business is sacrosanct, and protecting and promoting it as such is our highest duty.
Secondly, economic interests are guaranteed a free rein.
No one can be obliged against their better judgement to protect the environment or to defend social and democratic rights.
Everything else will be taken care of by Europol and the euro, as if the euro and Europol were actually the key, the instant cure for all our problems, as if securing these two things would really benefit the people.
No one who was genuinely pro-European could wish to have that kind of Europe!
