Mr President, I am happy to say that this is a report which the Legal Affairs Committee approved unanimously.
The rapporteur has made all the points concerning protection for encrypted services very clearly, notably the fact that piracy in all its known forms is flourishing.
Non-approved decoders are being manufactured, marketed, bought, installed and above all, used.
Furthermore, piracy-related services are being offered.
These services are being advertised and their purpose is to circumvent existing safeguards.
Piracy is a cross-border phenomenon and it also infringes the intellectual property laws.
The Green Paper addresses only the aspect of unauthorized reception of encrypted services.
Analysis of the legal position in the 15 Member States shows how fragmented Europe is as a legal area.
Some countries have legislated specially for this subject, whilst others base themselves on earlier existing laws, and others again have no protection at all.
The inference is obvious: we need harmonization, as the rapporteur himself concludes.
The question is, do we need a directive or do we need a regulation?
The reporter - and the Legal Affairs Committee agrees with him - advocates a directive, because the Member States can apply that more flexibly.
And, as he himself admits, a greater degree of consensus would be needed for a regulation.
In this context I would remind the House of the Slim report, approved recently, in which Parliament once again complains that too much 'soft law' is being enacted.
Consistency would thus suggest that we had a regulation here too.
In any event it is no doubt more realistic - at least unless we decide differently after evaluating the open debate on the Green Paper - to go for a directive to begin with.
Abandoning attempts at harmonization on the grounds that piracy would quickly get round any rules because of the rapid pace of technological development would be tantamount to an admission of powerlessness.
On the contrary, this argument must be a pressing reason to get legal safeguards put in place as fast as possible.
