Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the issues at stake in this debate is the role that we, as the European Parliament, ascribe to ourselves.
Are we to adopt an amicable stance towards the forthcoming Intergovernmental Conference in Amsterdam - a quiet and unassuming attitude?
Are we to play the part of supplicants, imploring the Council to grant us more rights?
Are we prepared to go to any lengths - short of rebellion - in order to win a little more or lose a little less as a reward for good behaviour?
Are we an extension of the national governments, hastening to show obedience by refraining from making essential demands of the Intergovernmental Conference?
No indeed - that is certainly not our role!
I am convinced that the very specific task of the European Parliament, here and now, is to do some straight talking, because what is at stake is nothing less than the ability of the European Union to face the future.
What is at stake is the establishment of a real European democracy, a balance between political and economic integration in Europe, and the development of a common, non-military foreign policy.
What is at stake is a total European perspective that will enable the Union to be enlarged.
However, when I turn to consider the proposals which have been tabled so far, I really have to conclude - and I do so with a good deal of dismay and concern - that the governments of the Member States are in the process of reforming the European Union in a way that will further erode democracy, transparency and openness, replacing them with technocratic, intergovernmental procedures - supposedly in the interests of greater efficiency - and by doing so will jeopardize the original concept of developing European democracy.
The draft treaty that has been submitted is not an adequate response to the social, environmental and democratic crisis in which the Union finds itself; not only is it inadequate in terms of reform, but it is also steering us in the wrong direction.
Statements on human rights and non-discrimination are not worth the paper they are written on unless there are legally enforceable guarantees.
Freedom of movement of persons - one of the greatest benefits that the European Community has to offer - is to be postponed indefinitely.
The so-called communitization of elements of the third pillar is a pig in a poke, because the introduction of the qualified majority principle is not coupled with codecision powers for the European Parliament and competence for the European Court of Justice.
If you look at Chapter H, you will see that the opposite is true: the remit of the Court of Justice is being reduced.
It is planned to expand Europol and give it operational responsibilities without extending the mechanisms for democratic supervision.
This is an erosion of the principles of government by the rule of law!
A common foreign policy must be a policy for peace and security, with the aim of setting up a Europe-wide security system; integration into the WEU is exactly what we do not need, and would in fact represent a step towards the militarization of the European Union, which used to be a community dedicated to promoting peace.
Another revealing feature is the obvious purpose of the objective of full employment: the promised chapter on employment has become a piece of high-sounding political verbiage without any binding force - the height of irresponsibility, given the mass unemployment that we face.
So it will scarcely come as a surprise that the European Parliament may not get the additional rights that were spoken of by the third great European of the week, Elmar Brok, but may in fact end up with fewer rights, for example in the budget.
Instead of rejoicing, we ought to be on red alert, because this Maastricht Treaty Mark II will make the future of Europe less secure.
(Applause from the Green Group)
