Madam President, when I went to Chile in September 1995 with the South America delegation, I was almost bombarded by human rights and environmental groups.
They all feared that the new agreement between the EU and Chile would not help resolve the most urgent problems.
They pointed to the limited degree of democracy, to the fact that the perpetrators of human rights crimes went unpunished, to the lack of power-sharing and the continuing power of Pinochet.
'The comparison with the Asian Tigers is inappropriate!' , they said, ' for the country is a tiger without a jungle!'
In macroeconomic terms, Chile may be doing well, but the forests are being cut down regardless, the seas overfished, and the mining of copper and export-oriented farming are bringing the country to the verge of environmental disaster.
In the continent as a whole, the gap between rich and poor is only greater in Brazil.
The Chileans therefore asked whether we could not stand up for full democracy in Chile, for an economic development in which people and not just multinationals have a share, for ecological development.
But when you look at this agreement, you find that it contains none of that.
Chile is simply to become a more attractive investment target for companies and investors.
They are offered more trade liberalization measures, trade and tax legislation is to be geared to the European system.
Does that mean the 91 % dependence on raw materials exports is to become 100 % in future?
The agreement merely contains the usual, lyrical phrases about human rights clauses, environmental protection and aid for the poorest groups, Commissioner.
If this were not the case, Pinochet would have to resign before the agreement could have any validity at all.
The Chile-Mercosur-EU triangle is to be the largest free trade area in the world, but who is actually going to monitor the free trading of the free traders?
The trade policy aspects of the agreement have already been put into force in advance simply by an exchange of letters.
We Greens will therefore abstain because this agreement is not consistent with the wishes of the Chilean people and, Mr Commissioner, it would be better if you could be rather less lyrical and more clear and realistic for a change!
