Madam President, in my view today's debate is a theatre of the absurd.
We signed the agreement on 7 November 1995 as the European Union; it is valid, and yet we are debating it today.
The stage directions for this theatre of the absurd were, of course, set out in the Euratom Treaty.
I think if we want our citizens to accept us, we can no longer allow agreements to be negotiated behind their backs, to which all we can do is nod or shake our heads, which has no effect on the final decision!
That is not the citizens' Europe!
Nor am I sure that in terms of content this agreement is the best we can achieve.
First we admit that an American law is valid in the European Union.
That is a curious procedure.
Secondly, this agreement sets out a line of development for energy supplies that at least 8 out of our 15 countries do not want.
The UK and France are also engaged in a heated debate about whether to continue using nuclear energy and I am not sure whether the decision will be that we continue using it.
On the question of reprocessing and the plutonium industry, the people of Europe have expressed serious concern.
This agreement provides for these activities to continue.
Thirdly, continuing along this road naturally implies serious safety risks if plutonium, MOX and other fuels are to be transported across Europe, by sea, land or air.
I do not believe we should allow this kind of nuclear tourism in Europe.
In that respect, not only do I not consider the procedure right but I do not consider the substance entirely convincing either.
I am not very euphoric about the results of the reform conference that is meeting now and will be concluded in Amsterdam, but this policy area, which concerns matters that are quite central to our social future, the question of energy supplies, of the Euratom Treaty, must be integrated in the European Treaties and must be subject to democratic control, to co-decision with Parliament.
Otherwise the citizens of Europe will certainly not accept it.
That is why I say: we need democracy now!
