Madam President, the human rights report now before the House continues the tradition of previous years.
It is certainly not a report on respect for human rights in the European Union, as the title would have us believe, but once again - if we compare it with previous reports - an attempt by Socialists, Greens, leftists and liberals to present to Parliament and the public at large, under the guise of human rights issues, ideological positions which could not otherwise be discussed in such depth.
We in the Group of the European People's Party believe that human rights are simply too precious to be allowed to serve as an ideological battleground.
We therefore recommend that Parliament should return to discussing actual violations of human rights, highlighting and condemning any such violations in the European Union and doing everything possible to ensure that they are not repeated.
Like previous reports, Mrs Roth's report discusses everything under the sun.
It calls for the right to health, the right to social security and the right to a healthy environment.
Clearly, these things must be discussed; but they must be discussed in the committees responsible, and not under the guise of a debate on human rights.
If everyone thinks they are obliged to say something on every subject, Parliament will run the risk of being branded a talking-shop by the public!
I am in favour of things being discussed responsibly by the responsible bodies.
We are running the risk of discrediting ourselves.
When we read that Parliament is concerned at serious and inadmissible human rights violations, the existence of degrading detention conditions and the erosion of basic rights and fundamental freedoms, that it is deeply concerned at cases of torture, cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, including cases of death, we could be forgiven for thinking that we were in Burundi or Zaire, and not the European Union.
We must get back to the facts when discussing human rights, and we should not have to remind ourselves where we are.
We in the Group of the European People's Party would like to see Parliament get back to legally enforceable rights, discussing actual human rights abuses and calling for respect for human rights in cases where the path of human rights has been abandoned.
