Madam President, I shall try to stay within my speaking time, since I notice that, all of a sudden, the clock is right again, although it was unfortunately wrong during Mr Alber's speech - for which, I must admit, I am not ungrateful.
Indeed, part of what I wished to say has been pre-empted by Mr Alber's comments on behalf of the Committee on Legal Affairs, and it is therefore superfluous to talk about the need for freedom of establishment or matters concerning the internal market.
Let me address a number of other points, therefore.
In the European Union, we are very tolerant in our dealings with one another, and I trust that we shall also manage to be so in the debate on this item of the agenda.
We are not discussing legislation here, but an own-initiative European Parliament report, which seeks to prompt the Commission to consider the need for legislation.
When I look at the ideological war which has been waged by the professional associations of doctors over the last few months, however, I am not entirely sure what this matter is about.
For us - as Mr Alber has already made clear, I am glad to say - it is a question of safeguarding and upholding the principles of the internal market, notably the freedom of establishment, and also of ensuring a high level of patient protection.
I do not know who has the right - or thinks they have the right - to deprive people of the freedom to choose their treatment.
I do not concede that doctors have that right.
I do not concede that the training of doctors gives them the right to decide what is best for patients.
There are different situations in the different Member States.
In some Member States, there are chiropractors, practitioners of different types of massage, non-medical practitioners, acupuncturists, and so on; and patients from other Member States must be provided with access to their services if they so wish.
My group sets great store by the freedom of adult citizens of the European Union to choose and make decisions, and I trust that colleagues in the other groups do so too.
I believe that, to a great extent, they are capable of deciding for themselves what they want.
So it is important for us to insist that the people treating these patients know what they doing - in other words, that they are properly trained.
This is what Mr Lannoye and the Committee on the Environment are calling for in the report.
They are demanding that anyone practising a form of medicine - any form of medicine - should be properly trained, so that they know their limits, and know when it is time to let a conventional medical practitioner, a surgeon, or an internal specialist take over.
This requires them to have a qualification, and the granting of this qualification has to be regulated Europe-wide, since the safety of patients must be guaranteed in equal measure in the United Kingdom, Ireland, Denmark, Spain and so on.
If training courses and the granting of diplomas are regulated in this way, patients in the European Union will be protected, and will be able to decide for themselves whom they trust and who they wish to treat them.
This is what we are calling on the Commission to do.
We are calling on it to take action and bring forward appropriate legislation.
