Mr President, first I want to congratulate Mrs Ahlqvist, whose report I shall be discussing, on her work.
The Commission Communication on which her excellent report is based is entitled 'Learning in the Information Society' and is intended as a European education initiative.
Let me say as a matter of principle that perhaps we are not entirely doing justice to our education systems in suggesting that they are only just entering the EDP age.
Information technology is already being taught and computer rooms already exist in schools all over Europe.
Yet this initiative aims to emphasize that the use of EDP and the media represents a constant challenge which everyone involved in education has to face up to on a continuous basis.
But we must not forget that education and training are a field where the primary responsibility lies with the Member States.
So I am glad that paragraph 3 specifically refers to the Member States' jurisdiction over cultural and educational matters and that in other passages too the report resists the temptation to prescribe rules to the Member States, offering them suggestions instead.
I must admit that I still have some reservations about paragraphs 13, 14 and 15.
I am getting fed up with girls and women still being presented as technical dunces!
If you just look at the offices round here you will see that women are perfectly capable of using the new technologies.
To say that there is a shortfall here would also mean that 40 years of coeducation was just a waste of time!
Nor should we be too didactic.
The reference to encouraging play with these technologies as an educational tip may be harmless but it is superfluous!
I quite agree with the rapporteur that the changes proposed in the Communication must be accompanied by a reform of teaching.
I think that is overdue.
But teacher training is not really a Community task and I have reservations about supporting this from the structural funds.
That is why my group will call for a separate vote on paragraph 27 and only vote for the first part.
There are two other aspects I welcome.
The first is the reference to the disabled, which I consider mot important, and the second is the proposal to examine whether the research and education programmes can be used for the networking of schools.
But here we must decide clearly where the priorities lie and where we can then cut back.
Despite these reservations, I wish the report success.
