Mr President, this Parliament has for years been campaigning for a new waste policy, for waste avoidance and waste recycling within the European Union.
We have achieved one success.
In Article 39 of the Lomé Convention we laid down that no toxic or hazardous wastes must be exported to the ACP countries.
Unfortunately, there was no comparable agreement with other Third World countries.
But our view is that the time really has come to put a stop to waste exports to the Third World.
In this context, incidentally, South Africa has decided that it will not import any wastes and will not export hazardous wastes.
And we have achieved a worldwide breakthrough with the Basle Convention.
The revised version of the Basle Convention says that from 1 January 1998 any export of hazardous wastes outside the OECD countries is to be prohibited.
That resolution was adopted six months ago, and in fact it is already applicable.
So why, in this situation, does the Commission have to present us with another document which basically revokes that resolution, which has been a rule for six months?
The Commission has the audacity - after that resolution has been adopted and the world-wide breakthrough has been achieved - still to propose to export hazardous wastes.
And it has the additional audacity - as Mr Virgin pointed out earlier - to include the following statement in Recital 5 of its text: ' it is possible that countries which have replied that they do not wish to receive some or all types of waste listed in Annex II of the Regulation may not be fully aware of the significance of their response for their industrial sector.'
Meaning what, precisely?
That sentence is neo-colonialist - as if those countries did not know what they were doing, did not know what their potential was!
I believe that that sentence alone is sufficient for us to reject the entire document.
We discussed that in committee.
We tried to create an objective basis.
We shall give our complete and full support to the amendments Mr Virgin has tabled, as an attempt to arrive at a conclusion by objective argument.
Personally, though, I believe this document deserves to be thrown out; we should not even vote on it!
