Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to begin by thanking the rapporteur.
The draft directive before us is undoubtedly of huge economic importance to Europe.
Nine million jobs depend directly or indirectly on the type of basic conditions we create for biotechnology.
Patent law, however, is but one of these conditions, and I believe that many other things are also important; for example, we also have to remove all bureaucratic obstructions.
As a doctor, I most strongly warn against making patients into pawns in this primarily economic debate.
That applies to both sides, so the applause was perhaps premature.
If some here are suggesting that the adoption of the directive cannot fail to bring about enormous advances in the treatment of genetic diseases, the least I can say is that there are divergent views among medical scientists.
Those who see potential problems in the absolute protection of DNA material also have sound arguments on their side.
Let me say this quite clearly to both sides: we do not know!
Politicians always want straightforward answers, but science cannot provide straightforward answers to this question at the present time.
And I must also reiterate that the development of diagnostic resources, better diagnosis, will not necessarily benefit patients if treatments are still twenty or thirty years away.
To put it simply, caution and prudence are of the essence here.
It is of decisive importance to our group that certain ethical boundaries are drawn in this directive.
One of these concerns intervention in the human germ line, while others relate to the patenting of methods that involve the use of human embryos and to animal welfare.
And it is also especially crucial that the cloning of human embryos is totally banned.
Cloning violates human dignity.
All of the political forces in this House agreed with that view when the appearance of Dolly the sheep brought human cloning into the realms of possibility.
The time has come for us to stop talking and to start taking action.
In this directive we must therefore unequivocally prohibit the cloning of human embryos.
It is not enough only to exclude implantation in the womb, in other words reproductive cloning, which is what the Commission's group of advisers would like.
Firstly, even experimentation with embryos is despicable and offends against public policy and morality.
But secondly, and I would ask you to listen carefully just before I finish, what exactly is a new invention?
Implantation in the womb is already known.
Birth, fortunately, is still a natural process.
So surely nobody can seek to patent these things.
The only step on the way to a cloned human being on which we have any power left to impose limits is the cloning of embryos.
And the road to Dolly was paved with numerous sheep embryos.
We do not want a host of human embryos to pave the way to a cloned human being.
That is why I ask you to support Amendment 55 and especially the last two subparagraphs.
