Mr President, by and large I agree with Mr Fantuzzi's report and I must say that we need the transitional period, for of course it is also a question of jobs in undertakings.
We have to consider that too.
If an undertaking has to restructure, we must realise that this could cause hardship, which needs to be compensated for.
In general I am in favour of promoting our European specialities much more strongly.
Everywhere I go, in every country, I see McDonald's, Burger King, Coca Cola, even outside Europe.
It really is a reflection of the poverty of our own food industry that we have not managed to create these mass-processing distribution systems because it means we are losing large shares of the market.
In that regard we Europeans should take better care of and do more for our own speciality products, which also have a long tradition and go down well with the consumer.
When examining the question I came across some very curious things.
We have spent a long time on BSE and everyone has said they want labelling so that they will not be infected.
The Swiss then had to observe an export ban and we suddenly found that the Swiss make their world-famous Bündner meat from Argentinian beef.
This meat does not even come from Swiss cows!
Quite honestly, if we are as particular as Mr Baldarelli said, we will also discover that in Italy, as I found during a visit there, Parmesan cheese is successfully being made from milk produced in Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg.
We should not blame each other for something which is in fact not blame-worthy, for the cheese tastes wonderful; incidentally, it is then sent back to Germany.
I am a lover of Parmesan cheese, I must confess, and drink Württemberg wine with it.
Not a bad idea, because it is a good wine.
So we should set a high level of protection, but I agree with the Commission proposal that we should have a transitional period of five years from the date of publication so as to give enough time for restructuring.
Apart from that I agree with what the rapporteur said.
We should endeavour to give more prominence to our European specialities and thereby also give our consumers a sense of quality on which they can rely.
By the illegal use of hormones, as a result of BSE and so forth, our image has suffered so much in relation to meat that it is vital we use this opportunity to restore consumer confidence.
But we need a certain transitional period to do so.
If we can agree on that, then we will fully endorse Mr Fantuzzi's report.
