Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I must thank Mr Titley for his very wise remarks, and I am glad that he has said what he has, because I see it the same way that he does.
Unfortunately, our motion is not quite as balanced as what Mr Titley has said and what I am going to say, but that's what happens, unfortunately, with motions.
Vast numbers of Albanian citizens handed over their savings to confidence tricksters who promised them incredible profits.
Infected with gold fever, people were incapable of attaching any credence to timely warnings - the supposed prospect of fabulous wealth simply befuddled their senses.
They were easy prey, precisely because they had no experience whatever of such hideous excesses of capitalism.
Today, confronted with the grim reality, they are naturally trying to place the blame not on themselves but on the government.
It may well be that the government failed to warn them early enough, but without rock-solid evidence and in view of the euphoria of the investors, the job may simply have been too difficult for them.
When they did broadcast warnings on television in September 1996, they were not believed.
But the misfortunes of the population and the problems the Albanian government faces as a result are too great to be abused for selfish ends.
Unfortunately, the opposition is doing just that, criminally exploiting the unrest for party political purposes.
Hooliganism directed against public buildings and the police does lasting damage to public order, and must be stopped.
The fact that there were some cases where this was done without the appropriate sense of proportion is very regrettable.
People were killed, and that is terrible.
Obviously, those responsible must be called to account.
How many Members took note of the moderation and democratic maturity with which the Albanian parliament conducted the debate on the proposed declaration of a state of emergency, and then eventually rejected it?
All of them were more or less blinded, the opposition politicians no less than some members of the government.
But now everyone should be trying to pick up the pieces as quickly as possible and refraining from untenable accusations or suspicions.
The government has begun to pay back the small amount of money retrieved, and will continue to do so.
The Committee of Inquiry must clarify the background, and the EU Commission should help to reform the finance and banking sectors and provide strong support to the government as it works to build the sound and credible structures of a market economy.
So, please, let us not confuse cause and effect, and let us not make party political capital out of these matters.
Our thoughts must be turned to the misery suffered by the Albanian people, and to the urgent matter of enlightenment.
