Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to express my thanks to Mr Perry, because of course it was his initiative that led to the appointment of this parliamentary committee of inquiry.
The first committee of inquiry worked hard, and its work is starting to bear fruit.
If you keep in touch with the media, in the Swiss, the Austrian, the Spanish media, across the whole of Europe, you will learn about cases that were once more likely to be swept under the carpet.
Cigarette-smuggling, the smuggling of vegetables, livestock and meat, are on the agenda, and if we assume that a container of cigarettes can yield a profit of one million ECU, a container of alcohol can fetch ECU 400 000, a container of butter or meat ECU 45 000, or a container of sugar 12 000, it becomes apparent that smuggling is certainly a lucrative business.
Individual States and the European Community are defrauded of tax revenues and excise duties, but honest dealers also suffer - the ones who pay their taxes as a matter of course and who end up having to pay higher taxes because the fraudsters have spared themselves that expense.
And of course the insurance institutions also come off worse, which results in higher premiums.
It is the European consumer who foots the bill.
The European Parliament is a protector of the European consumer, and that is why it was necessary for the committee of inquiry to subject this whole issue to intensive scrutiny.
It is also the case that the Community transit system entails expenditure, especially for those Member States whose territory adjoins the eastern border of the EU and which therefore have to assume a disproportionate share of the cost of customs controls.
Consideration should be given to a compensatory payment to these countries from the Community budget.
On the other hand we also concluded that the European Commission needs to engage in new activities, that the focus must be on ways of making these activities efficient, on potential streamlining measures, and I believe this would be of real benefit to the European Community purse.
But another key point is surely the question of training.
We urgently need the customs academy that was referred to, and it would be logical to establish that academy at a border, where the customs people, the types of officer who will be the trainees' superiors in practice, can provide training in customs clearance procedures.
It is also important that a forgery-proof basic document should be issued, one which can also be copied, that the stamping process should be based on the latest high-tech methods, and that the paramount aim should be to organize considerably simpler, faster, more efficient, more transparent and far cheaper procedures - far cheaper for business and for the Community.
