Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our committee has dealt separately with the experience of the Common Foreign and Security Policy, on the basis of the special reports by the Court of Auditors on EU administration in Mostar and election observation in Palestine.
Unfortunately, we were able to confirm the desolate situation regarding the administration and control of the funds distributed there.
When I say desolate I am not thinking so much of the ultimate destination of those funds as of the institutional blurring of structures and responsibilities between the Council and the Commission which mean that any rapid organization is still impossible and those with local responsibility, such as Hans Koschnik, are encountering serious difficulties.
This is another area in which the Commission must be given complete responsibility, so that Parliament is in a position to give a meaningful discharge in the first place.
An obvious precondition here is that spending under the Common Foreign and Security Policy should remain non-obligatory in future.
Anything else would be a retreat into the obscurity of ministerial decisions, at a time when the need is for greater transparency and democracy.
I would like to ask Mr Friedmann, as a matter of urgency, to give us the opinion on the Common Foreign and Security Policy that we have been promised since 1994 and which was supposed to assist us in our deliberations at the Intergovernmental Conference.
Secondly, I should like to draw attention to the last section in the Wynn report, which refers to the publication of a list setting out all refusals of approval.
As far as this House is concerned there was a dramatic increase here in 1995 and 1996, especially in connection with the equipping of the new Parliament building.
These refusals focused on breaches of the budgetary regulations and of the rules for awarding contracts.
What happened here was that when invitations to tender were issued, deadlines were not observed, the requirement was not quantified, excessively high tenders were awarded the contract, tenders were added to after the event without new invitations being issued, etc.
None of this does anything for the credibility of our own institution, and it stands in urgent need of correction.
In order to counter the proliferation of refusals of approval, it would be of great assistance if the Court of Auditors were to publish them in future in its annual report.
Transparency is the first and most important condition for doing away with this mismanagement.
