Mr President, the development of the European Union will depend on whether its citizens espouse the idea of European integration because they feel that their interests are being represented.
A policy which gives priority to business over people and which puts the functioning of the market above public health is letting down the citizens of Europe and thereby ultimately calling into question what it professed to support.
Mr Santer, you have spoken of a health union today and announced many changes.
But surely these changes, or at least some of them, would have been possible at the start of your Commission's term of office?
Was a crisis such as BSE really necessary to prompt you to act and introduce reforms?
The report of the Committee of Inquiry, for which I am extremely grateful to Mr Medina, has identified omissions, errors and shortcomings and - just as importantly - made proposals for the future: reforms which are necessary to protect public health, to restore the confidence of our citizens and to allow for democratic controls.
However, that means giving responsibility for food issues to the Commissioner who deals with consumer protection, together with all the necessary resources!
It means using Article 100a as the legal basis for all the legislation on food!
It means having public access to the reasons behind decisions, with transparency in the scientific committees and advisory bodies, and in the allocation of studies and the organization of seminars.
It means creating a European equivalent of the US Food and Drug Agency, with all the independence that is required.
I therefore expect that the green paper on the future of food - which was announced a year ago, and to which several of my colleagues have referred - will contain these necessary reforms, since otherwise there is no point in discussing it.
I now expect that action will be taken quickly, and that the Intergovernmental Conference will be used to discuss with the Member States the necessary reforms of the institutions.
For this reason, I am opposed to a censure motion at the present time.
If heads are made to roll, it does not mean that reforms can actually take place, but without these reforms - which have been announced, and which I hope will not remain simply announcements, and Parliament will be monitoring this very closely - there can be no further development of the European Union.
But surely that is what we all ultimately wish to see!
