Madam President, although we are quite right to bemoan the fact that while we have over 200 directives in Europe, all with the same basic aims, we are experiencing major difficulties at national level in terms of transposition and especially implementation, we must ask ourselves at some point what we are actually doing wrong.
We shall not make much progress just by repeatedly lamenting the situation and writing a report about it - a report with which I am broadly in agreement.
We have the same problem with environmental policy in Europe as in my own family.
Whenever my children, my wife and I talk about environmental policy, at first we are all full of enthusiasm.
But when I then suggest introducing practical measures, that enthusiasm soon wanes.
This is precisely what has happened on a large scale here in Europe in recent years.
We made a good start with the IPPC directive, which sought to introduce across-the-board authorization procedures in Europe.
After all, industry should no longer be allowed to clean up the air by discharging dirt into the water; an overall approach is needed.
We have used so little force that all we have achieved are ridiculous administrative rules, and hardly any practical measures have been introduced.
That is exactly what we need, Mrs van Putten, when you say that Europe's environmental policy transcends borders.
We need to lay down practical measures, and here we have come up with a new trick: we now no longer say 0.01 or whatever, but demand BAT, best available technique.
This is a splendid environmental slogan, but no one defines what we mean by it in Europe, and so we should not be surprised if the loopholes are exploited.
If I were in charge of an industrial plant, my job would be to find a favourable course of action to take.
We therefore have to define what BAT means: it is certainly not what is still at the research stage in universities, but nor does it mean the practice of 20 years ago.
And here, Commissioner, you need to stand up to other, more heavyweight Commissioners - everyone knows to whom I am referring - and finally bring in quality targets with parameters for emissions and quality levels.
We do not need his foolish proposal on water and river management, but we do need a proposal specifying which toxins those waters should no longer contain.
Our Member States are bright, intelligent and responsible enough to manage their own affairs.
But the criteria stipulating what may or may not be in those waters do have to come from Europe.
We should not be surprised, if we open the door so wide, that interpretation varies from one year to the next.
There are 55 directives on water policy.
What small businessman - myself included - can cope with 55 sets of European rules?
I can hardly cope with three!
That is why it is important to provide a guide by setting out parameters, leaving the ways of achieving these targets up to the Member States.
Of course, transposition periods vary.
It is no great feat to transpose a European law into national legislation in Greece.
In my country, which as you know is made up of several Länder - 15 or 16 - it takes rather longer.
But the overall approach is what matters most, in my opinion, and I would propose that besides the national monitoring bodies, which exist and which we support, we should consider if there might not be another option.
I believe that we in Europe have too many detailed rules and regulations, but too few incentives.
I would reverse that situation, laying down very strict targets, but ensuring with the aid of incentives - which could well be tax measures - that we introduce a different form of control.
The Member States are of course responsible here, and we must make it worth their while to implement these controls.
Repeated threats of prosecution alone are unlikely to win anyone over to environmental protection - quite the opposite.
I suggest that we consider a European environmental MOT - like the test which cars have to undergo every two or three years in my country - which would be run on a private basis and issue the certificates required for economic and fiscal measures.
And one last point - I am naturally in favour of allowing our citizens to bring legal actions.
However, I am not in favour of allowing actions to be brought by persons who are quite unaffected and live thousands of kilometres away from a new construction project.
Those who are affected, who live in the region, are more than welcome to avail themselves of their legal rights.
But planning permission in northern Germany must not be held up by a legal action brought 1500 km further south.
