Mr President, let me first of all express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur.
She is one of the idealists who devote a great deal of additional time to this area.
It is quite right: there are 37 million disabled people living in the EU.
They certainly have to struggle with many prejudices and difficulties in our society.
Anyone who speaks with them or about them should always appreciate that they could easily become one of their number overnight.
The Member States are mainly responsible for implementing disability policy.
Nevertheless, I take the view that sensible coordination and inclusion in all EU programmes of the integration of disabled people is desirable.
I wish to emphasize this point, even though I have a very high regard for the principle of subsidiarity.
A new action programme designed on these lines for the benefit of disabled people and their associations, provided they have a 50 % representation on the management board, is therefore necessary to ensure that the structures which have been created do not collapse.
We need to promote equality of opportunity and integration, and to further extend the structures for cooperation.
Regardless of the legal problems, the Commission should carry out pilot actions and preliminary work for disabled people, with the involvement of NGOs.
Securing non-discrimination and the right of access to all Community programmes is sensible and important.
However, rights which exist in theory on paper are not enough.
Otherwise, the same thing will happen to disabled people as to small and medium-sized enterprises: their rights may well be written into many programmes, but they are frequently not translated into practice.
We must make every effort to see that this happens, so that the right results are achieved.
And we must ensure that there is genuine access to all the modern information and communication techniques.
Unfortunately, I do not have enough speaking time to elaborate on this.
To my mind, it is essential that the problems of disabled people should be examined by a high-level group of experts which must be set up in the near future.
In this context, dialogue is important both with the Member States - which, as I said, are primarily responsible - and with the European disability forums, so that progress can be made for disabled people at European level and beyond.
This objective is also supported by my group, and I should like to thank my colleague Bartho Pronk, who was responsible for our preliminary work on this report, but is unable to be present with us here today.
