Mr President, I have listened attentively, Commissioner, to what you have said, and I gather from your very correct and very comprehensive remarks that you, as a person, have taken a great deal of trouble to ensure that the consumers of the European Union are protected and informed.
Most of us, here in the European Parliament, have never doubted that anyway.
Unfortunately, as the Commissioner who spoke before you has already indicated, the Commission always takes its decisions as a collective body.
We can remember perfectly well which Commissioner, in the past, was in favour of labelling or consumer information.
As you can well imagine, I very much welcome your remarks about amending the annex to the directive controlling release into the environment with regard to the labelling of all genetically modified products - all of them, please note, which goes farther than the novel food directive.
This Parliament has been campaigning for a very long time to ensure that seeds, genetically modified foodstuffs, and other products too, are labelled.
Until now, the majority of Commission members did not agree with us but, even when progress moves at snail's pace, sooner or later it will reach even the Commission.
I am not quite so much in agreement with your comments on the approval of genetically modified maize.
The main reason for our oral questions was not labelling, but first and foremost the conviction that many of us hold, that the approval of this genetically modified maize has happened too soon, and perhaps should not even have happened at all.
At all events, it comes at a time when doubts about safety have not been completely removed.
And I have to admit, Commissioner, that your remarks have done nothing to remove by own doubts.
However, your comments have once again made it clear that not only is the comitology procedure that is used in the European Union unsatisfactory, but it also, quite obviously, leads to blatantly wrong decisions.
It is not acceptable that there should be scientific committees, which are not subject to any democratic control, and which take decisions on behalf of all of us.
Therefore, Mrs Bjerregaard, I should like to ask you for clarification on this point.
You supplied the scientific committees with all the information, but did you ask them any specific questions?
Did you specifically ask the scientific committees, for example, what ampicillin resistance means, or perhaps how an antibiotic gene can act as a marker gene?
Or did you, for example, take a close look at the conclusions of the hearings on this subject?
Did you ask why this genetically modified maize is not permitted in all the US Federal States?
And do you share my opinion, and the opinion of my group, that the comitology procedure cannot be in the interests of consumer safety, and that we will therefore have to change it at the Intergovernmental Conference.
