Ladies and gentlemen.
Transfers from one Member State to another in the European Union is still a lengthy and expensive business.
European citizens and in particular small and medium-sized companies find the difficulties involved not simply annoying but in some cases also extremely expensive.
The European single market is not yet a fact of life in this sphere.
Meanwhile some banks in border regions have introduced cost-saving methods of transfer.
Giro systems which should lead to quicker and cheaper money transfers within the European Union are being set up.
I am confident that fair competition between the cross-border transfer systems leads to better, more favourable supply.
The present proposal for a directive on cross-border transfers has very definite repercussions on citizens' everyday life in Europe.
Our objective was to make cross-border transfers quicker, cheaper and more reliable.
I welcome the joint draft before us which represents an excellent solution.
From the first reading in May 1995 to today we represented Parliament's view in intensive discussions and negotiations and I believe we have made a considerable improvement on the original proposal in the citizen's interests.
One example of what I mean is the scope of application of the directive where our upper limit of ECU 50, 000 was finally accepted in place of the original ECU 30, 000.
I think this is particularly important since a series of transactions of small and medium-sized firms now come under this directive.
Another important amendment dealt with the credit advice of transfer amounts to the mandator if they had not reached the beneficiary for any reason.
Up to ECU 10, 000 was to be credited back to the mandator under the Council's common position.
We finally managed to have this amount increased to ECU 12, 500.
Even although this is well below what Parliament originally asked for I nevertheless believe that we can accept it in view of what we have achieved elsewhere.
The case of cross-border transfers is to my mind a clear example of the significance and success of the co-decision procedure.
We have seen here that we can achieve a great deal if we enter negotiations with clear objectives.
Incidentally I would like to point out that with the introduction of a common currency the importance of the subject will inevitably wane, with the exception of various legal points.
In conclusion I wish to thank everyone involved for their hard work which has led to this agreement which is satisfactory to all concerned.
I believe that this has overcome another hurdle and taken another step closer to the European single market.
Medina Ortega recommendation (A4-0415/96)
