Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should firstly like to congratulate the rapporteur on the stamina and patience which she has shown in drawing up her report.
With this report, she has presented a very balanced and practical final document.
In the light of the closing discussions in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, I should like to emphasize in particular once again that resale rights are a matter of copyright in favour of the artist, and not a tax to benefit the Member States.
I think this is a very important point to make.
The discussions revolved around two issues in particular: whether we need to harmonize resale rights at all; and, if so, how these rights should then be expressed in terms of percentages for each band.
The first question - do we need to harmonize resale rights - can clearly be answered in the affirmative.
Where art is concerned, the European internal market is characterized by extremes.
We have some Member States where there are no resale rights, and others where there is a right of 5 %.
We need this harmonization.
The main arguments against are as follows.
Resale rights or administering them would consume the proceeds.
The response is that this can be countered by the rapporteur's balanced proposal that the rights should apply only from a threshold of ECU 1000.
Also, many of the systems currently in operation serve to undermine this argument.
Another argument which is repeatedly put forward, namely that the art market would migrate to the United States, cannot be sustained.
There are already resale rights in California, and efforts are in fact being made in the USA to introduce them throughout the country.
Turning to the bands and the percentages for resale rights, there are major differences in the Member States.
We spent a great deal of time discussing where to draw a line that was justified on practical grounds, but came to the conclusion that the threshold of ECU 1000 is one which is justified, taking all the counter-arguments into account, and it should be maintained.
The upper rate is also in keeping with the realities of the art market and the interests of the artists involved.
