Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that we must follow Mrs Read's example in relating this report to the WTO agreement, though that agreement is even more ambiguous than has previously been pointed out.
There is still the intention, instead of a transition to a new development model which will be viable in the future, to overcome the present difficulties of capital accumulation by opening up what had previously been public sectors to the private markets and private competition, and that does involve problems.
I believe we can perfectly well debate this matter here in connection with the question of the mobile telephone service, because it is true, as Mrs Read said, that this is going to become one market, and the Commission's strategy and tactics of splitting it up into smaller and smaller sectors for technical reasons and regulating them in different ways carry less and less conviction.
In this connection I would like to thank Mrs Read very specifically for having repeatedly stressed the cohesion of this whole voice telephony sector, as compared with the Commission's piecemeal strategy.
Perhaps, too, this may have enabled the other side of the House, which is not with us at present, to grasp that flexibilization or liberalization can only be regarded as advances if we really take our regulatory function seriously, if we really succeed in providing the necessary government-backed guarantee for all, particularly including those population groups and regions which have to face up to handicaps, obstacles and problems.
This includes the universal service, and universal service in a more dynamic form.
It includes the need for the consumer associations to play their part.
It includes specific guarantees for the disabled, in this sector more than others, and I can only stress that point.
Communication is a public asset.
Part of it can be supplied privately.
It can be opened up to the private sector, but it must be regulated so as to retain government control over it.
