Mr President, on the eve of the Amsterdam summit, Parliament is debating the Tindemans and Titley reports, two elements of a new foreign and security policy - or rather a military policy.
There is repeated reference to concepts such as a defence identity, or the Petersberg missions that we are obliged to carry out.
That means nothing more than making strike forces available for intervention.
A qualitative change in EU foreign policy is taking place here.
The European Union, hitherto a civil organization with its enormous single market, is now organizing itself into a hegemonic power.
This is perhaps the point of no return.
A defence identity in relation to whom?
The Cold War is over.
Europe is still heavily armed, and if it wishes to protect itself against organized crime or arms smuggling, it needs not military forces, but police forces to do so.
Mr Titley said it clearly: this is about creating acceptance for the arms industry, so that it can determine foreign policy.
There is a need not for a defence identity, but for a European identity, for our citizens to accept the Europe that we wish to build on civil foundations.
For future intervention under the Petersberg missions, however, we need new strike forces, new ships, new satellites and the future large aircraft.
Four years ago, Mr Titley, you tried to set up a budget line for the future large aircraft.
This report is the key to ensuring the swift introduction of budget lines that enable the European arms industry to gain access to the EU budget.
Who is going to pay for that?
We do not have the money in the social sector.
There are cheaper defence products, and we know from the MEDA programme that the funds made available to us there for such things as civil foreign policy, development policy and proper conflict prevention are inadequate.
A final word concerning democratic trends.
Mr Kittelmann referred to this.
The Intergovernmental Conference and this report are leading to the creation of a new Council of Princes of the Holy Roman Empire, in the sense that the EU Council of Ministers determines and controls foreign and military policies and ultimately approves the relevant funds.
