Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two old proverbs to start with.
Whenever money is to be earned by circumventing the law, crime cannot be far away.
The other: the fact that UCLAF, the European Commission's fraud squad, has got onto the trail of these nefarious dealings shows that the controls are working.
At the forefront of the oral question are illegal imports from China, and possibly also from Russia.
In Germany they have just uncovered the illegal import of 1, 000 tonnes of CFCs from Great Britain.
There is also evidence that some other countries in eastern and central Europe are not obeying the current agreement on ending the production and use of CFCs, which have been identified as an ozone killer.
Ten years ago 24 states and the European Union signed the Montreal Agreement, the aim of which was, and is, the phased cessation of CFC production and a phased renunciation of other agents which are most damaging to the ozone layer.
CFCs have been forbidden in industrial countries since 1996.
Despite this, some 240, 000 tonnes are still produced worldwide every year.
Consumption still rises worldwide by about 4 %, mainly in the developing countries.
Even here in Europe CFCs have not been entirely abandoned in existing installations, for instance, condenser plant.
This is not merely on grounds of cost - the replacement of all these installations would swallow enormous sums - but also for environmental reasons.
There are insufficient plants across the world to remove these CFCs without causing environmental damage.
To satisfy the need for an alternative there is the so-called quota system, and in the resolution motion which we are voting on tomorrow we shall be unable to pass point 6, because here the question is raised about what is to happen to the quantities that cannot be removed.
We in the European Union must not only see that the existing laws and treaties are obeyed, and that offenses are strictly penalized, but we must take every step to ensure that developing countries and those in the former Eastern Block are persuaded to forgo the use of CFCs earlier than hitherto foreseen - by the year 2010, in fact.
For this they need our financial and technical support.
We must likewise do all in our power to reduce the use of other ozoneharmful agents.
Methyl bromide, which has two thirds of the damaging potential of CFC, and is used mainly in developing countries in agriculture, is principal amongst these.
The same applies, though, to the partially-halogenated hydro-chloro-fluorocarbons, the HCFCs, which are being increasingly introduced throughout the world as replacements for CFCs, and whose damaging effect is only 20 % of the CFCs' potential.
For this reason we cannot vote under point 7 for inclusion of the HCFCs.
We should like it removed, because it is simply impossible.
Throughout the world there is resistance to an earlier end to the use of these materials.
The European Union should, as already agreed, lead with a good example here.
