First of all I should like to congratulate Mr Perry on his excellent report.
This annual report, and the way in which it has been drawn up, are a sign and expression of the excellent cooperation, above all party-political considerations, that characterizes our work on this committee.
The Committee on Petitions has been in existence for ten years now, and during that time it has received about 10, 000 petitions with about 10 billion signatures.
We can quite rightly claim that the Committee on Petitions forms the link between the citizens of the EU and its institutions.
The people of the European Union come to the Committee on Petitions with their concerns, their negative experiences and their desires.
Often we are able to help them solve their problems, but often our hands are tied because, even when there is European involvement, the legal basis needed in order to take action is lacking.
In that case, the matter turns out to be a national problem after all.
Sometimes, however, the Committee on Petitions, as an institution, is completely misunderstood.
We are regarded, as it were, as the highest instance, along the following lines: I, the petitioner, have complained to my local authority, then to the regional authority, and then to the national petitions committee.
None of them upheld my claim, so I am now going to go to the European Parliament and complain there.
Of course, that is not what our competence is all about.
We are not the Supreme Court.
One problem that we still have to overcome is the problem of time.
Petitioners have to wait too long for a reply, or for the solution to their problem.
It takes some time, after a petition is first received by post, for it to be summarized, checked in advance to see whether it is admissible or not, and then translated into eleven languages.
Once the Committee has decided on a recommendation, then the real work begins.
The Commission, thank goodness, has finally complied with our request and is trying to process petitions very rapidly, but they are still being held up at the level of the Member States and the Council.
They operate very slowly, particularly when an infringement of Community law is involved.
Insufficient information is made available; in other words, in most cases it is incomplete, and it is also too slow.
We are asking for more precise and more rapid information and replies from Member States.
We need firmly agreed deadlines, and all those people who are involved in the expansion and coordination of the electronic data-processing system could help here.
Because, since 1992, the Committee on Petitions has been meeting in public, and because the petitioners are always asked whether they want their petitions to be handled in public or not, this should not cause any difficulties with data protection either.
The participation and hearing of petitioners by the Committee is often desirable as a matter of urgency, and we try to be fair in arranging for this to be done.
For example, on the petition about opencast lignite mining in Garzweiler, because we as a committee thought that the information provided by the petitioners was insufficient, we decided to send a fact-finding mission there.
The visit will be taking place next week.
Unfortunately too much of our work still goes on out of the public eye.
Many of the initiatives of the other committees, and legislative initiatives by the Commission, too, are closely linked to the petitions dealt with by the Committee, because people are constantly discovering defects and deficiencies in European Directives and statutory provisions.
So we are also requesting that the European Parliament's offices should be better informed about the right of petition.
The public should be informed about the petitions that are being examined, and above all about the petitions for which solutions have been found.
Only in this way can we, as elected representatives of EU citizens, establish a closer link with them and put into practice our oft-quoted desire to be 'close to the people' .
