Mr President, we have spoken very frequently about Burma over the past two years, and all we can really do each time is to repeat our expressions of regret and the charges against the Burmese Government.
It is still the case that elementary rights are not respected, that hundreds of supporters of the democratic opposition, the National League for Democracy (NLD), are in prison.
Only recently a prominent member of the NLD, 67-year-old Tin Shwe, died in prison.
He had been held in custody for seven years.
He had a heart condition, and it was in this way, as a prisoner, that he had to end his days.
The official reason given for his imprisonment was subversive propaganda.
In this case subversive propaganda means communicating information from within the country about the dreadful conditions that prevail there.
Hundreds of people are still in prison, and I believe that economic measures, the pressure that would be exerted if no money from the European Union were invested there, if Europe did not support the regime in any way, could secure these people's release from prison.
We also demand, as we have been demanding for quite some time, that Mrs Aung San Sun Kyi, the holder of the Sakharov Prize of the European Parliament, be allowed to move about freely.
It is always difficult to pass judgement on other States, but we can scarcely welcome the fact that the countries of ASEAN have admitted Burma into their organization under these circumstances.
I believe we should roundly condemn that and we should ensure that it remains on the agenda for our diplomatic and political discussions and economic negotiations with the ASEAN States.
This makes it all the more incomprehensible to me when I see attempts being made in the European Union to develop relations with Burma - I have to endorse Mrs Günther's views on that subject.
The Munich Messegesellschaft - the Trade Fair Society - would like to hold a meeting at the next fair in Rangoon.
Mrs Günther, I take your appeal very seriously.
Bavaria is governed by the Christian Social Union.
I hope that its Trade Fair Company will not go to Burma.
Mayor Monatzeder, a fellow Green, has protested against the trip and has called for its cancellation, and I hope we are united behind this protest and that we can persuade the Messegesellschaft in Munich not to support the Burmese regime in this way.
