Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for the work his has done and for this really good report.
The European Union is in need of a reliable, Europe-wide transport system that effectively guarantees trade and mobility.
As an Austrian, I should like to highlight the importance of combined transport, that is to say the transport of goods using at least two carriers, with the goods being transferred between them.
Because of Austria's geographical position as an immediate neighbour of the States of Central and Eastern Europe, it is particularly important to draw attention to the transport situation.
Road traffic has already reached capacity, and, in view of eastward enlargement and the increase in traffic that will result, we face a total collapse of the system.
We have, of course, also to take into consideration the increase in road traffic pollution.
If we are to take pollution seriously, then it has to be combated and real ways of preventing pollution sought.
This transport system, which embraces a variety of carriers, can play a key role in the way transport in Europe is organized in the future.
The social and economic demands of the community as a whole must take proper account of environmental protection and the safety of users.
The situation can be relieved only if road traffic is combined with transport by rail and on water, that is to say if the different carriers cooperate and what is called an intermodal transport network is created.
That method of transport is, unfortunately, still undervalued, and its capacities and the possibilities it offers far too little used.
The European Union researched and promoted combined transport through its PACT programme, a pilot programme from 1992 to 1996, and made available ECU 22.7 m for that purpose.
That programme had positive results, and so the Group of the European People's Party welcomes the fact that the programme has been extended.
PACT II runs from 1997 to 2001.
Funding of ECU 35 m has been made available but, in my view, that is far too small a sum.
I am therefore hoping for more financial support for the PACT programme.
I am therefore also arguing for PACT to be interlinked with other EU programmes, such as PHARE for instance, as eastward enlargement takes its course.
The Group of the European People's Party supports all of the amendments in the report.
The amendment tabled by the Group of the European People's Party on project selection and the granting of financial assistance was rejected in committee by one vote.
In selecting the projects, the Commission should take the regions and Member States into consideration in a balanced way and ensure that decisions do not cause any distortion of competition as between regions and Member States.
I hope this proposal will be approved in plenary for the benefit of Europe's citizens.
