Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to bring out quite so much heavy artillery here but concentrate my criticism on a technical question, namely Parliament's disappointment that it was not consulted on a major question.
I do not know how what position we would have taken had Sir Leon Brittan consulted us beforehand and explained the situation; we might even have agreed.
Anyway, it is too late now to find out.
But on a question such as the Helms-Burton Act, where the European Parliament established the main points while the Council and Commission were still hesitating about whether to take strong action, one cannot begin by embracing Parliament and working closely together but then take a decision that we only learn from the newspapers and say afterwards that it was the only way!
This is a matter of principle and I would cordially ask the Commission not to treat Parliament this way too often.
The responsible committee, the Committee on External Economic Relations, which was involved in all the work, was not told about this either.
We described all this in detail to that committee, Sir Leon, but not until the day before yesterday.
We did not have a chance to do so before.
Surely the main issue is as follows: Congress adopted legislation contrary to international law.
We all jointly decided that this had to be settled via the WTO, that it could not be allowed.
Congress made fun of Europe.
The individual representatives are saying: what weaklings they are over there in Europe!
We will do what we want and if we recognize something as right, then people simply have to do what we want.
After all, this situation requires a definite approach, so that Congress, which is now involved because Clinton is trying to implement the results, does not get the impression that it is the winner, because the main sections of the Act that we regard as contrary to international law remain in place.
Hence my request to the Commission: we want to continue working with you on a basis of trust.
But please ensure that this trust is justified in general and not just selectively, on the basis of: I will consult in this case but not in that one.
In that respect our criticism here is both technical and substantive.
