Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group let me first acknowledge and express my appreciation for the common efforts made by Germany and the European Union towards the economic recovery of the new Federal Länder and the successful contribution of the structural funds towards improving the situation in German Objective 2 and 5b regions, as the rapporteur also did so well in his report.
For the future too we regard the structural funds as an essential expression of European solidarity with the disadvantaged regions of Germany.
This report is a mid-term evaluation of the development problems and structural fund measures.
It is up to Parliament and the Commission to draw conclusions from it for the next programming period.
Let me list a few of these conclusions and also of the experiences drawn from current practice.
The current procedure for drawing up EU assistance plans and operational programmes and for implementing these programmes does not make nearly full use of the possibilities for simplification provided for in the regulation.
For instance, in 1994 the Commission did not permit a uniform programming document to be drawn up.
Instead it insisted on what are called multi-fund programmes, which unnecessarily increased the administrative procedures for implementing the operational programmes.
At the same time, as a result of constantly increasing and changed requirements in relation to evaluating, reporting, etc., the administrative statistical procedures have also increased sharply.
The Commission interprets the respective regulations very broadly - or at least this is what was constantly confirmed in practice.
Other major problems are the legal uncertainties, which result in different interpretations of various assistance aspects, such as final recipients of the assistance, costs eligible for assistance and so forth, together with the rules on actual expenditure, which create a considerable and unnecessary burden for undertakings and local authorities who have to pre-finance the costs.
That really is the crunch.
Transparent and unambiguous rules with clearly demarcated figures need to be adopted, which also take due account of the budget laws of the individual Member States and make specific provision for advance payments.
Commissioner, the new structural fund regulations must restrict the type of indicators required to the respective assistance objectives.
They must expand the rights and responsibilities of the Member States in administering the EU resources and they must widen the powers of the flanking committees and not make their decisions subject to additional confirmation by the Commission.
The economic effects of the assistance and their acceptance by the economy and the regions could be measurably and considerably improved by these proposed measures, without incurring any extra expenditure.
I believe that Mr Botz's report offers a good point of departure for this.
