Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is a German Christmas carol which begins with the words 'Once in every year' .
It would make a good title for this debate: once in every year.
The reason, of course, is that we never have the courage to put forward figures that will do duty for the future, but always mess about with tiny percentages.
And then of course the question arises of the cost/benefit ratio and technical feasibility.
I really do think it's time to get to the point!
That is why we fully support the Lange report, which proposes binding levels for the year 2005, not just guidelines.
We think it makes no sense to launch an auto-oil II programme a year after this Directive comes into force.
The industry, too, must finally be told what the position is and given the information it needs, then it might be rather more willing to make the necessary effort.
Coming to the point, as I said, is important for the industry too.
As far as the exhaust levels go - there are 14 items, or 18 if we take the totals - we propose in the Lange report a further reduction for six of them.
This is technically feasible even today, and not unconditionally dependent on lowering the sulphur content in petrol.
After all, it was said at the hearing that these values are already within the reach of presentday technology.
Of course, it isn't necessarily an easy matter.
But there is another thing we must bear in mind: we have already achieved many successes, with levels in some cases being reduced by 90 %.
But if there were as many cars on the roads worldwide as there are in Europe, then the stock would be quintupled.
And even if we cut the limit values substantially, the overall result would be an increase in emissions, and that of course is something we cannot allow.
I believe that the industry could easily manage this, because that in fact is what the engineers are telling us.
And so what I say is that we don't just need clean engines, we need clean directors too, because they do far more to make things hazy, and to make them grubby - they think a hydrocarbon is a carbon you hide behind!
I have more confidence in the engineers than I do in the directors.
Let me also say a word about the so-called on-board diagnosis system.
We quite agree that this is a good thing for the environment.
But, of course, the work must not go ahead in secret so that only the franchised workshops have access to the data.
As I see it that would be the exploitation of a monopoly position, which is of course completely unacceptable to us as consumers.
Probably these people have been misled by the name 'on-board diagnosis' and think that where there is a diagnosis there must necessarily be medical confidentiality too.
But the rules of that confidentiality derive from quite different terms.
If we lower these limit values, we can cure our environmental patient without doing too much damage to the cost/benefit principle.
I say again, I have far more confidence in engineers and researchers than I do in businessmen.
