Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the governments involved like to see Schengen as a success story.
Last year we were proudly presented with a first annual report - the only source, incidentally, from which the public can find out anything at all about the way Schengen operates!
That report was mainly concerned with such things as the hit rates for the Schengen Information System with its 3.7 million data sets.
It was concerned with the high density of controls at the outer borders and with the so-called compensatory measures at the internal borders.
It was - as Mrs van Lancker has already said - really a report on co-ordinated defence against refugees.
The opening of the internal borders was the sugar coating designed to conceal the taste of the new barriers at the external borders of Schengen, and to legitimize the fact that new Schengen frontiers have been created within the European Union.
This opening of the borders is really only a pretty fiction, if that, because what has really happened is that the borders have been shifted inwards a bit.
Perhaps we are not checked as often as we used to be, but try asking black people or people of Asian origin.
Their very appearance makes them suspect!
The undemocratic way in which Schengen came about and the undemocratic way in which it operates have often been criticized in this Parliament.
Despite that, an unchanged co-operation agreement has now been concluded with Norway and Iceland, obliging those countries to accept Schengen without any ifs or buts, but depriving them of any right of co-determination or right of representation on the Executive Committee.
This is a two-class system, and as far as I am concerned it is also the model of a European heartland which I really do not want!
What is now being proposed for the Intergovernmental Conference, which is that Schengen should be adopted, is not at all the communitization that we are demanding - in other words the merging of Schengen with the European Union.
Instead, Schengen is to be taken over unchanged in its existing undemocratic form.
We reject that vigorously, because it will also undermine the guarantee of the continuance of the Treaty.
I hope this principle will be maintained.
Then we will enthusiastically support Mrs van Lancker's report!
