Mr President, this evening we are talking about the status of officials and the employment of officials in the institutions of the European Community.
I believe that the European Community in particular must set an example by implementing what we are always discussing here concerning the equal treatment of men and women in all areas of our Community.
Regardless of whether this is in the area of employment or in other areas, the important thing is that we should set a good example, and that we should be the ones to show what we in the European Union want.
On behalf of my group, I should just like to comment in detail on one or two points.
Mrs Lindholm has already made it very clear that people who live in a permanent relationship should not continue to be discriminated against by being given different treatment.
We cannot have a situation in which I receive equal treatment only when I have acquired a certain status, namely by landing safe in the haven of matrimony.
Nearly twenty years ago I entered into a marriage because I knew that if I did so I would be taxed differently and would gain certain advantages.
We cannot have a situation in which we acquire our marriage certificates for that reason alone, and I believe that it ought to be possible for me to have equal rights without having to get a piece of paper from the state.
There are many people who live for years in a permanent relationship and who are disadvantaged purely because they have not taken a trip to the Register Office.
This applies not only to salaries, but also to social insurance, in cases of sickness and in many other areas.
I believe that in our open society it is time we put an end to this.
The second point that I should like to raise is the question of the age limit.
I should like to add something to what Mrs Lindholm has already said.
The fact that women have a different career pattern because they take time off to have children and then go back to their jobs later is not the only issue at stake.
Last year, we had what was known as the Year of Lifelong Learning, and we talked about the fact that going back into education for a second time provides people with new opportunities and/or a new career.
Is it not possible that the age limit would be an obstacle here?
Many people do not take their A Level equivalents until the age of 30, and only then do they go into further education or to university, and these people then have no chance at all if there is an age limit.
The age limit must be removed.
