Mr President, it was Montesquieu who urged legislators to be guided by a spirit of moderation.
The rapporteur certainly gave a practical example of that spirit, and it is clear from the Commission's pilot project, which is before the House today, that the spirit of moderation is now to be taken seriously in the process of enacting European legislation.
Following on from the Molitor report, the SLIM initiative represents a further important step towards improving and simplifying Community law, and for that reason it is to be warmly welcomed.
However, I should like to make a number of observations.
The Commission ought to have clearly explained the basis on which it selected the sectors that the SLIM teams have considered.
Such an explanation would have been particularly welcome given that the topics selected were not exactly burning issues for the public.
Suffice to say that one of them was ornamental plants.
The fact that one Member State was keen to have this sector included is surely not sufficient justification.
We need more than that.
Sectors which merit urgent consideration in the future include public procurement and financial services, because these are areas of particular importance to our national economies.
However, the Commission ought to begin by focusing on sectors where extensive legislation has actually been adopted.
For that reason, issues such as those of migrant workers and taxes are not particularly appropriate priorities for the SLIM initiative.
The composition of the teams should be transparent and balanced so that they can operate with maximum efficiency.
It is particularly relevant in the context of the SLIM initiative that the Commission should base its approach, in a comprehensible way, on the checklist that was drawn up by Parliament when it presented its response to the Molitor Report.
This should become a compulsory part of the process of drafting new laws or reviewing existing ones, so that tendencies to over-legislate can be exposed.
The whole idea behind the SLIM initiative is to reduce the costs to national economies and business which arise from over-complex legislation.
The aim is to make Europe more competitive and above all to improve the potential for job creation.
But the SLIM initiative will only serve to achieve that aim if its conclusions become a basis for making legislation genuinely more readable and straightforward in practice, and if that effect works its way through to the Member States.
The Commission should pull out all the stops to achieve that aim, and then demonstrate its achievement to the public.
With that in mind, I would encourage the Commission, as a matter of urgency, to push ahead with this project.
