Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I must start by thanking both rapporteurs most sincerely for their efforts and congratulating them on the results.
This is an intensely political subject, and one of fundamental interest, too, because the issue here really is the creation of new systems, new market incentives.
On the one hand we must meet the needs of an open market, and on the other we know that there is a very special need of regulation here.
I believe, though, that the Commission has been able to find satisfactory answers to most of these questions.
The situation is that market access can be structured on an objective, non-discriminatory and transparent basis.
Commissioner Bangemann deserves our sincere thanks for that.
Starting out with the idea that the issue at present is to bring something to the table that is politically feasible, I expressly welcome the Commission's proposal.
I would like to add, though, that, in my view, it would have been more desirable, politically and economically, to grant more powers to the European Union institutions in this sector generally, and also in the licensing procedure and in the area of international co-ordination in particular, to enable a more efficient system to be obtained at European and global level.
I only hope that this failing will not have a seriously disadvantageous effect on Europe in the global race for access to satellite communications services.
At any rate, the Commission will need to play its part effectively in its role of observation and co-ordination.
Bearing in mind that the liberalization of the telecommunications sector is scheduled for January 1998, the adoption of a resolution is of course a matter of great urgency.
I am glad that we have succeeded in taking an important first step in the right direction, even under such heavy time pressure.
It will be important, though, not to lose sight of further technological developments but to continue adjusting the general conditions to suit developments in this field.
Once again, many thanks for everything that has been achieved.
I believe a good start has been made.
