Mr President, given the way it is currently looking and going, the fact is that Monetary Union is going to be an economic area which, though comparable with a nation-state in terms of its currency, has in many others areas structures that are clearly critical if Monetary Union is to be a success but which differ greatly from one Member State to another, and this is in itself a factor that involves a whole range of problems.
These are problems that have to be properly resolved before Monetary Union is set under way.
If the solutions adopted to tax harmonization and the issue of stability are only half-hearted, then this Monetary Union will rest on very shaky foundations.
The single currency should improve the operation of the internal market.
However, if, at the same time, it is to promote growth and employment, the Union is going to have to tackle the budgetary and fiscal policies of the individual Member States, as these inevitably have a considerable influence on the Union's general economic position.
Then there is the question of coordinating the national budgets or even significantly increasing the European Union budget.
But as the rapporteur, Mr Fourçans, himself puts it, it is extremely difficult, both economically and politically, and I am afraid that it will not actually be possible to resolve those questions in the medium term, because Europe is not yet ready for this.
As far as fiscal matters are concerned, the rapporteur points very clearly to the unfair tax competition that could arise in a variety of areas between Member States or regions.
But, politically speaking, these are extremely difficult matters because the structures, traditions and cultures differ very greatly in the individual Member States.
What the rapporteur is unable to say is how the distortions likely to result from differing taxes are to be prevented.
At present, as far as many Member States are concerned, the principle of unanimity on this issue is something of a sacred cow.
We can certainly expect that where wages and wage costs differ only marginally, we shall see both increased worker mobility and businesses exploiting these location-based advantages.
Commissioner de Silguy said he was prepared to talk about everything but not about the point in time at which Monetary Union would commence.
I take the view that he needs immediately to tackle the question of a new and realistic time-frame that makes it possible to achieve real convergence if he wants Monetary Union to be a blessing for Europe and not a lasting burden.
Those, like me, who want economic union, may also want it at a later point in time, and I think that those who do want it have also to be in favour of closer citizen participation in this issue.
