Madam President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank the President of the Council, Foreign Minister van Mierlo and Mr Patijn and their team for the real spirit of cooperation they showed Elisabeth Guigou and myself in the past months.
I am also convinced that we will see similar cooperation on a number of practical matters in the coming days and weeks.
I think that when we evaluate this document we can often proceed on the basis that the better is the enemy of the good.
For we find that measured against our expectations of the future European constitution this is not exactly a grandiose example of progress.
On the other hand - and I became a Member of the European Parliament in 1980 - we have experienced dramatic and positive change in the European Union with the three intergovernmental conferences of 1985, 1991 and 1997 and there were more developments in the European Union between 1985 and 1997 than between 1958 and 1985.
I think we should remember these developments too and remember the situation as it was at the outset.
So we should be a little fair in our judgment.
This Treaty has brought a social balance.
The Single Act was a treaty on the internal market.
The Maastricht Treaty was a treaty on economic union.
Now a social title has been added, the Social Protocol of 1961 and 1989 has been incorporated, an employment title has been included, the European Court of Justice has been strengthened and the Treaty includes a number of additional civil rights.
This increased balance in the Treaty may not be sufficient, but it deserves to be noted.
I believe that it is better to communitarize fields of justice and home affairs in the first pillar and to adhere to unanimity for a while longer than to leave them in a third pillar and decide by majority voting even at this stage.
Why?
Because in incorporating them in the Community structure the heads of state and government have recognized that the intergovernmental approach is not the right one and that the classical approach to integration established by Monnet is preferable; eventually we will still manage to establish majority decision-making.
That is the strategic decision we should be looking at and that we discussed in the past.
In the field of foreign and security policy, we have managed thanks in particular to Parliament's activities to ensure that the Commission is involved in planning and analysis and in other areas too and that it is no longer just the governments and the Council alone that decide.
The situation still looked quite different a few months ago!
Surely that is an important step towards gradually incorporating this aspect into the acquis communautaire too.
The fact that Petersberg tasks have been integrated, that the European Union can now issue guidelines for the WEU, that the Union can conclude agreements with third countries in the second and third pillar too, surely these are remarkable steps forward which, I believe, need to be recognized.
In regard to flexibility, Schengen and so forth, this means that the areas that are in the first pillar under the normal Treaty are also decided according to the methods of the first pillar; no Pillar 3a or 3b or whatever has been introduced.
That too is worth noting.
But we also note that this Treaty has one crucial weakness.
That weakness is that we have too little majority decision-making to give us the ability to act.
The heads of state and government admitted this, pointing out that there will be another intergovernmental conference before the accession of the sixteenth Member State.
I think that admission may have further consequences.
I could imagine, for instance, that the decision, which is to be taken in the Council, to include justice and home affairs in the majority and codecision procedure in five years' time could be modified and that the timeframe could be reduced, for instance to a date before the first round of enlargement.
Then we would not need another intergovernmental conference but could make considerable progress in this area.
Perhaps the Council could include this in its deliberations.
At present, the European Parliament normally has codecision rights on legislation.
The President of the Commission can only take up office with the approval of the European Parliament.
The Commission as a whole has to be approved by the European Parliament.
The budget cannot be adopted against the will of the European Parliament.
Treaties on enlargement, association agreements and many other agreements with third countries require the assent of the European Parliament.
There are criticisms to be made, there are many more things we have to achieve and we have to make it clear that these intergovernmental conferences are perhaps no longer the right method to use.
We must make it clear that in the long run we need a constituent assembly that includes the national governments, the European Parliament and the national parliaments, in order to overcome some of the bureaucratic resistance.
But we should no longer say that this European Parliament has no influence!
We will be holding elections in 1999, when we should honestly tell the citizens that this European Parliament is a factor of European policy and that few matters in Europe are still decided against the will of the European Parliament!
Only then can we obtain a high level of electoral participation and only then can we draw the necessary strength to wrest even more from the Council in the next round.
So I would ask you not to play down the results achieved for Parliament; instead we should show more self-assurance and make use of the instruments we have to move ahead!
