Madam President, the text of the resolution makes it clear that the insular regions of Europe, be they in north or south, are facing great environmental and economic challenges, and that is why the European Union must do more to ensure that these areas are not left alone to deal with their problems.
Above all, the island regions must be incorporated into the sort of physical planning strategy that is currently being developed within the EU.
The adoption of a European regional planning strategy in Noordwijk in June 1997 will constitute a major step in this direction.
We shall then see whether the responsible parties in the Commission, and above all in the national governments, are capable of incorporating the reality of island life into this European planning strategy.
Pie in the sky, many will say, and probably with some justification, for it would require more action in the domain of structural policy in particular than we have seen so far.
The European Union needs to do more in three core areas while strictly observing the principle of subsidiarity.
Maritime borders have hitherto played a minor role in the promotion of cross-border cooperation.
Only Sardinia and Corsica and the Danish island of Bornholm were part of Interreg I. That is why it is gratifying that the Commission has included considerably more programmes in Interreg II which affect maritime borders and islands.
Keep it up!
Interregional cooperation programmes such as Recite are also very important to the islands.
In addition to fostering normal neighbourly relations, they also serve as a means of sharing experiences that are relevant to other island communities.
The creation of networks enables island communities to discuss common problems and to come up with ways of solving them.
That must also be encouraged in the framework of other policies.
I am thinking particularly of the information society, from which the islands must not be excluded, since modern communication technology is the very thing that can help them to overcome their peripheral situation.
For that reason, I commend the idea that the House should compile a report on coastal and island regions on its own initiative and that the report - or both reports, if we treat each type of region separately - should be tabled for discussion by the House as quickly as possible.
