Madam President, I should like to start by saying something about the CO2 question.
I am quite amazed that the Commission should send us a communication about the matter of the CO2 problems in car engineering.
Because I was actually under the impression that this was a classic part of the auto-oil programme.
But if you read through the Commission's programme then you find out why it isn't part of the auto-oil programme, because the Commission is not actually proposing anything except to say that it believes a voluntary agreement is the panacea in this particular sector, starting from Europe.
That can't possibly be right, because voluntary agreements need framework data provided by administrative law, and the Commission proposes no such data.
I must sound a warning note against introducing voluntary agreements without these framework data in Europe.
That is precisely what will lead to the serious distortions of competition that we rightly fear.
At the most, then, voluntary agreements come at the end of the scale.
Then I could quite well image such things.
We need a phased plan for limit values, as far as CO2 is concerned, going beyond the year 2005 and as far as the year 2010.
I could imagine that tax incentives might be a way forward here.
The car concept has got off to a good start.
We have been able to get the contracting parties sitting round a table.
We have been giving the car industry a hard time in recent years, and I think the industry has done a great deal.
But it takes two to tango, and the oil industry dropped out of the dance after a while, Commissioner.
That broke the partnership, and the result of the broken partnership lies before you: a boring auto-oil concept that leads nowhere.
We took off like a tiger, and the Commission's truly lamentable paper has turned our tiger into a rug.
That must not be the aim of this Parliament.
We will change this auto-oil programme, with the corrections made by so many Members, until we think it holds some promise for the future.
I am perfectly willing to talk about transition periods.
The parameters for the exhaust values, and for the fuel values, must be met.
But I am quite prepared to grant transitional periods to those countries, now and in the future, that cannot meet the parameters quite as quickly.
What was the actual driving force behind this programme?
As far as I can see, it seems to have been shareholder value.
We will change this programme so that the driving force behind it is the future and innovation.
