Mr President, safety aspects also militate against completion of the two nuclear power stations.
Neither project accords with the allocation guidelines of the EBRD, and I have the results of studies which come out most clearly against the construction of these nuclear power stations.
The modernization and completion programme planned by the operators will never satisfy Western safety principles.
The planned modernization programme will not even comply, Mr Commissioner, with the new Russian safety standards, as the construction of the reactor type used in K2 and R4 still fulfills the old Russian standards.
Furthermore, the modernization programme does not even meet all post-Three Mile Island requirements.
If the project were so to be modified that it met all the above requirements, then the financial means needed for it and the time frame required for a corresponding re-equipment programme would alter so radically, that it would greatly exceed all the assumptions so far made.
With regard to the fourth condition - environmental friendliness and citizen participation - I leave it to your assessment just what citizen participation might look like in Ukraine today.
There must be no retreat on the closure of Chernobyl.
On the contrary, everything possible must be done to close this damaged reactor for all time as quickly as we can.
I think it is irresponsible to allow Chernobyl to run for even one more day, or perhaps to use it as an excuse for the construction of two more, equally problematic, nuclear power stations.
A few days ago the President of the EBRD, Jacques Larosière, was in Austria, where he held talks with members of the Austrian Government.
Austria came out quite clearly against any financing of these two nuclear power stations.
As an alternative, Austria supported, amongst other measures, the modernization of existing calorific power stations.
When one considers the heat loss of everything being built in Ukraine - up to 60 % - that is so huge that one can easily imagine that one could help the people there with far fewer resources and in a much less dangerous manner.
Austria will obviously help to finance the sheathing of the ruined reactor at Chernobyl, and it will also pay into the corresponding funds.
Chernobyl was one catastrophe.
In God's name let us not create potential new catastrophes through the completion of these two doubtful nuclear power stations!
