Mr President, earlier this morning, we discussed human rights in the European Union and the various kinds of human rights violation.
For some Members, that went too far; for others, not far enough.
The report by Mr Ford which is now before the House deals with racism and xenophobia, and I ask myself whether this kind of human rights violation is the cause of lack of respect for people, or the effect of it.
In today's society, which is built on a sense of community and tolerance, racism and xenophobia are not marginal phenomena, but are regrettably on the increase.
Society frequently tolerates right-wing, xenophobic slogans without questioning their consequences.
At a time when social security is being undermined by unemployment, poverty and organized crime, these problems are not being blamed on inadequate economic management or government mistakes, but on the immediate environment, which is more tangible and more accessible.
People in our society are no longer viewed as a whole.
Some people are allowed to be here because of their nationality; and others, whom we call foreigners, are allowed to stay because they have lived here for a long time.
But there are others who have no right of residence, and whom we should like to see removed from our territory as soon as possible.
There are many other kinds of unequal treatment.
For example, there are people who have work, and there are people who are not given the opportunity to work, because there is no work for them.
But people with different religious beliefs, the elderly, the disabled, and so on are also frequently the victims of discrimination.
1997 is the European Year against Racism, and establishing the European Monitoring Centre for Racism and Xenophobia this year would not only be symbolic, but would represent a natural addition to existing efforts.
The task of this Centre will not only be to collect and process data, but above all to inform, instruct and raise people's awareness of the causes and effects of these phenomena.
History has taught us that racism and xenophobia destroy people and cause enormous suffering.
