Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this morning a lot has been said to describe the situation, but let us look for a moment at a scene, a backdrop, which could threaten from the Middle East.
Netanyahu campaigned for election and won - I should like to remind Mr Wurtz that the Israelis elected him with a majority - on a platform of three "noes' : no to an end to the settlements, no to the withdrawal of troops, and no to a Palestinian state.
If this is not transformed into a three-fold "yes' , which would basically mean a return to Oslo, so that an active peace policy can be implemented, then the dangerous policy introduced by Netanyahu will not be stopped and will combine itself with another dangerous development.
Of course Arafat must stop the terrorists.
Of course we must continue to repeat that requirement, that is entirely right.
But we must also be clear about another thing: the terrorists are hitting not just Israeli civilians, but also - and that in my view is a political objective - Arafat.
For those who throw bombs have, besides the basic aim of hitting Israel, an internal Palestinian aim of weakening Arafat.
If Arafat is weakened - let us even assume he is deposed - then you have the scenario of a Netanyahu operating with three noes opposing a Palestinian leadership dedicated exclusively to the use of violence, or at least a majority of the Palestinian population who want that.
Then the outlook is, in my view, clearly one of long term conflict.
That means we are in a very serious and dangerous position.
Fortunately Mrs Albright has once more achieved the necessary equidistance between Israel and terrorism during her current visit.
At first it appeared to be rather different.
If America were to adopt a unilateral position in favour of one side or the other the peace process would come to an end.
For this reason, Mr President of the Council, the European Union must adopt a much more active role - and thank you, Mr Commissioner, for mentioned this - because it is the only way we can play our part in the maintenance of peace.
