Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following the Commissioner's reply, I should like to say that I very much welcome the fact that Mr Collins has raised this oral question at this particular time.
Since we have only an incomplete knowledge of the results of the negotiations between the EU, Canada and Russia, on the subject of which many critical voices have been raised, it is high time that the Commission kept Parliament comprehensively informed.
I am rather surprised at the length of time it take for this House to be to some extent informed about the draft agreement, whereas lobbyists and other groups have the complete texts of agreements made available to them.
In this respect - and thank you, Mr President, for having already given an indication in this direction - Parliament should use the resolution that we are about to adopt as a means of giving a signal.
I also support the objectives contained in the motion for a resolution that has been tabled, in which the emphasis is placed on attitudes towards leghold traps.
Traps that are cruel to animals must be made to disappear, and on a worldwide basis.
Other traps may be used only if they are not cruel to animals.
That must be the guiding principle.
All we need to do in order to proceed further is to refer to Mr Pimenta's report from last year, which tackled the many and various aspects of this problem, in other words, prohibiting traps that are cruel to animals, developing international standards for humane traps, taking into consideration the special role and situation of indigenous peoples, and clarifying the trade-policy aspects.
At the same time, I should like to warn against the possibility of achieving precisely the opposite effect by acting too ambitiously.
As a negative example, I would simply refer you to the case of Brent Spar, where incorrect information resulted in a great loss of credibility.
In my opinion, the activities of the past week, and the heap of paper that landed on Members' desks, was over the top.
I really don't have anything against lobbyists, but in the interests of the case itself we need a more balanced argument.
We shall only succeed in getting the countries concerned to alter their behaviour if we can appear credible to their people.
This applies initially to the indigenous peoples, who are the ones who are directly affected.
We must also take into consideration the special characteristics of their cultures and, when we have processed the results, we should draw the appropriate conclusions.
