Madam President, I must begin by complimenting Mrs Palacio very warmly on her report and of course the Commission too, in the person of Commissioner Oreja, on the progress achieved.
But I think it appropriate in this debate on the subsidiarity principle to emphasize that this very principle stems from Christian social thinking and should thus be applied with this in mind and not, as is so often the case, as a means of helping people to help themselves.
Subsidiarity means nothing more than not allowing a larger unit to do things which the next unit down the scale can do perfectly adequate.
But this shows quite clearly too that subsidiarity must be built from the bottom up and not from the top down.
Subsidiarity must operate equally between municipalities and regions, just as it must operate between the institutions of the European Union and the Member States.
Mrs Palacio's report makes the point very clearly at the beginning that the subsidiarity principle has a political dimension: consequently questions concerning the subsidiarity principle should also be resolved by political means and, where possible, not by the Court of Justice, precisely because the objective should be for Community decisions to be taken as closely as possible to the people.
But as close as possible to the people means that decisions in this decision-making pyramid should be pushed down as far as possible towards the pyramid base.
For me the logical conclusion of this is that we must, beneath the municipal level, also consider the family level, since this is the bedrock of our society and needs to be strengthened accordingly, also on the basis of the subsidiarity principle.
But it is vital too that the subsidiarity principle should on no account be abused to weaken the force of Community law.
Systematic mention of it in the context of the new polices sounds somewhat suspect here.
But overall, this extremely enlightening report shows us that there is still much to be done especially in the matter of defining subsidiarity.
