Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Year against Racism is being celebrated everywhere.
But celebrations are not enough, and there is one thing they must certainly not be allowed to do - they must not be allowed to obscure reality.
And reality, in the European Union, is marked by routine racist violence, increasing xenophobia and a rising tide of anti-semitism.
The figures on violence are shocking.
On 7 and 8 February alone, a Vietnamese, a Lebanese asylum seeker and two Polish citizens were attacked and very seriously injured in Germany, and a 17-year-old punk was a victim of racist violence in Magdeburg.
But another reality is the ambiguity of a policy which talks about anti-racism while at the same time intensifying institutional racism and institutional discrimination.
As a first example, take France.
The previous speaker has already mentioned this.
The draft Debré law enormously increases the already stringent provisions of the famous or infamous Pasqua laws, elevating denunciation to the status of a duty and a law, under which anyone who provides lodging for a foreigner is obliged to disclose his personal details.
This is the basis for xenophobia, for new splits in society, for disintegration and violence.
No wonder that the French National Front, the original source of such repellent policies, is growing.
As a second example, take Germany.
Federal Interior Minister Kanther gets himself appointed as national coordinator of the European Year against Racism, and what is the very first thing he does?
He introduces compulsory visas and residence permits for the children of German residents entering the country from the traditional labour recruitment countries, especially Turkey.
This new regulation affects 800, 000 children.
Is that Germany's idea of integration, when Turkish children are degraded and marginalized as second-class citizens, when the right to a family is apparently supposed to apply only to German families, and when these children are declared to represent a threat to order and security?
Human rights are indivisible, here as elsewhere.
The regulation imposed by the Federal German Government is a blatant violation of human rights and must not be allowed to set a new example in Europe!
This regulation violates laws, it violates the UN Convention on Children.
The deteriorating social situation of Turkish workers is discriminatory against these fellow citizens and breaches the terms of the association agreement.
I should like to know what the Commission, as the guardian of the Treaties and also as the guardian of the implementation of the association agreement, is going to do about it.
