Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the excellent report by Mrs Schmidbauer and the work on this subject in general are also extremely important because it is quite simply a fact that when it comes to equality of opportunity for disabled people, large areas of Europe are lagging far behind other parts of the world, especially the United States, Canada and Australia.
I should like to take up just a few points.
This subject is covered most unsatisfactorily by Article 235.
It really is therefore necessary for a new programme to take a rights-based approach, fully involving disabled people and their parents.
I too see no contradiction between a disability policy which is geared to integration and equality of opportunity and a specific disability programme.
On the contrary, I believe that the disability programme can help to achieve the goal of equality of opportunity.
However, something which does not emerge properly either from the Commission's communication or the committee's report is the fact that disabled people are in particular also fully entitled to have their share of pleasure, happiness and enjoyment.
In future, therefore, we shall need to address the question of fully involving disabled people in the areas of culture, sport, tourism and politics.
For example, the wonderful 'Special Olympics' movement, which comes from the USA and was founded by the Kennedy family, is one that you need to have experienced in order to understand just what it means for these disabled adults and children, how it gives them the opportunity to experience sporting competition, to be happy and to exist as full individuals in our society.
Another topic is the scope for deaf people to become involved in politics.
Here in Parliament, we have interpretation into all our languages.
But who thinks of the fact that deaf people should also have a right to be able to take part in political events?
For example, the political movement which I represent here has for some years now also provided interpretation for deaf people at a number of events.
This is another area that we should tackle.
