Madam President, I should like to start by thanking the Commissioner and Mr Patijn for their reports, and emphasize that the liberal group in this House will of course support all the humanitarian aid projects that have been launched, including the deployment of a military protection unit which, sadly, is once again needed in order at least to safeguard the humanitarian aid.
In this context, though, we should also ask whether the mistakes being made in that country may not be partly attributable to outside influences.
We should remember that no country, relative to the size of its population, has received so much aid from the European Union as Albania - aid provided on the basis of a treaty which laid down democratization as an essential condition; and yet past events there have seen the development of what is virtually a one-party state, excesses committed by the intelligence services, etc.
I ask myself, and I ask you, Commissioner, whether something has not gone wrong here when all this aid has failed to take effect; most of all, though, I ask you why the democratic political principles on which this co-operation was founded have apparently been consigned to oblivion.
This, I believe, is an important point and one we should look at closely.
A second point is this: Mr Patijn has said a great deal about the role of the OSCE in the current operations.
But I would like to ask him this: where was the OSCE when there was a need for someone to call attention to this development at an early stage?
Because that is the real and very important task of the OSCE - to function as a political early-warning system for imminent crises.
The OSCE failed to perform that function, and so when we come to give consideration to these events we should include the question of how we can reform this further development of the OSCE.
Albania is another example of how urgently the European Union needs a Common Foreign and Security Policy, and we should therefore do everything we can to ensure that it actually has one.
