Mr President, I should first of all like to thank Mr Needle for his excellent report, which has given us a great deal in terms of the economic information it provides.
However, I should like to look at the issue more from the political point of view.
Mr Linser has rightly said that this project, as Mr Needle presents it, is for the most part in Europe's interest.
We have an interest in maintaining peace, and peace is certainly not assured.
The fact is that if one looks at the developing countries, one has to say that there are time bombs ticking away everywhere.
We in Europe are just not sufficiently aware of the fact that there are currently 16 wars going on in Africa.
There are conflicts large and small.
But people only talk about those wars which are reported in the press, and not those on which there are no reports.
Even worse, what is taking shape in the Pacific, the war between Papua New Guinea on the one hand and Bougainville on the other, is one of the cruellest of wars, but who talks about it?
Who is aware of it, even though it is of crucial economic importance?
This is a challenge for us.
Moreover, we keep on hearing that there is not enough money for development aid.
I think the money is there, but it is being badly distributed and badly used.
People will go on saying that we must first help the poorest of all, and then the others.
I think the reverse would be more appropriate.
First the countries on the verge of development must be helped over the threshold, since the broader the shoulders which carry the development aid, the better that aid will be for all.
Finally, we must continue to organize this development aid in a rational way.
That means first applying development aid at the level of the people, since while major projects are good in terms of bringing areas together, it is the smaller projects which actually bring development.
Moreover, development aid above all means developing people, and in this respect it is still doing very badly.
Without human infrastructure, we shall not make any progress.
