Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are giving our opinion on an agreement that has already entered into force.
We may regret that, and it has indeed been regretted, as we do in our resolution.
Yet we have to take note of it.
We are not the signatories or negotiators of that agreement but have to work within its framework.
Today we are not just discussing nuclear energy.
I am saying that quite openly.
We will have ample opportunity to do so next month when we consider the Soulier report.
Today we have to examine whether we endorse this agreement between Euratom and the USA or not.
The Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy has decided to endorse the agreement, on the initiative of the EPP.
Of course what we want is for the European Parliament to be better informed, for us to be able to express our concerns, our interests, especially during the course of the negotiations.
We have reflected that concern too in our resolution.
Let me now express our surprise at the fact that there have been very differing discussions on the subject of the context of the report.
On the question of the transport of radioactive material, the Greens in particular quoted America as a shining example of safety standards.
Suddenly, now that we are discussing the Euratom/USA agreement, people say: the standards are poor, we cannot take them over.
Here it is becoming a question of the credibility of our arguments, which cannot be altered just to suit ourselves, which is why I have a simple request to make at this point.
After all we should not pretend that this agreement with the USA is simply opening the door to the international transport of plutonium.
Nowhere in the world are there such strict standards and requirements as in the USA and Europe.
We have our problems, namely with the Central and Eastern European countries, but that has nothing to do with this agreement and we should make that quite clear here.
The EPP Group basically endorses the resolution adopted by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
Apart from Amendment No 1, we cannot accept the amendments.
I am saying that quite openly too.
These are all points that were deleted on our initiative.
You cannot now expect us to endorse these points in plenary.
So we should make a clear statement now.
But we should also do our utmost - and I think there we agree for once with Mr Lange - in regard to the Euratom Treaty to ensure that it is integrated in Community legislation, so that we have a more honest, democratic basis for such agreements in the long term.
