Mr President, I listened to your statement with a fair degree of astonishment.
You spoke of trust in the Algerian Government, but you overlooked the fact that Mr Zeroual was only recently talking about extermination.
If that is a basis for trust, I am quite astounded.
You also said that reforms have taken place.
I am absolutely convinced that virtually no reforms have been implemented yet.
There is one thing you must not forget, Mr President-in-Office: it takes two to live in peace, but only one to start a war.
In this case it is not right to pick and choose negotiating partners either, as Mr Zeroual does; on the contrary, a statesman must speak to everyone.
This means being open and accommodating.
Allowing religion to influence these matters is not entirely helpful.
It must not be forgotten that many occurrences are ascribable to the feeling of despair that arose from the democratic elections simply being cancelled because their result did not please the potentates, who are noted, moreover, for their corrupt practices.
That simply must not be forgotten, Mr President.
That is why we must be clear about something else too.
Terrorism is a consequence of many sins that have been committed.
Since the French moved out of Algeria, there has been one dictatorship after another.
There has been no democracy, and what they call democracy today operates like this: parties are declared to be democratic and selected to take part in the elections, while the Algerian people are not allowed to present the parties of their choice.
We must therefore consider the situation as it really is and be absolutely clear about the fact that it is high time to consider the basic principles of peace here.
We regard peace and reconciliation in Algeria as vitally important.
We said that in Barcelona.
We say it again and again.
But it will never be achieved if we only support one side, criticizing it mildly, perhaps, but not demanding the fundamental prerequisite of democracy, namely that all parties be allowed to take part in the elections on a basis of equal rights and opportunities.
We must therefore follow an unequivocal political line here.
A second aspect, Mr President-in-Office, is that we shall not succeed on our own.
The European Union is far too weak to take real action at the present time.
Let us not forget that we have already ruined our reputation as it is in Bosnia and elsewhere.
The plain fact is that we are regarded by many as a paper tiger.
We should therefore be trying to ensure that other forces join us in the peacemaking venture in Algeria.
It could be the Arab League, which was mentioned in our resolution.
It could be the Organization of African Unity.
We shall not manage it alone, so if we are serious in our intent, we must make a concerted effort with other bodies.
There is something else we should not forget.
There is such a thing as a brave pursuit of peace.
We saw it with General de Gaulle.
He succeeded.
He was prepared to speak to his adversaries, and that led to the solution which undoubtedly resulted in certain benefits for France too, painful though it may have been for the French people.
I have visited Algeria many times, and I know what that meant to the French people, including those who lived in Algeria, but we have a responsibility towards that country.
We are in a Community with the Mediterranean region, and the path you have described to us, Mr President, will certainly not lead to peace.
We must apply quite different principles, and that is the purpose of our resolution.
