I have already stated clearly that no date for a decision can be given at this stage, simply because various procedural steps have yet to be completed.
But I can say this much: first of all, we need inspections to demonstrate that all the agreed conditions have now been met which form a prerequisite for any move towards a lifting of the export ban.
We recently sent an inspection team to the UK whose principal task was to convince us of the extent to which the additional slaughter programme was being implemented.
The inspectors' conclusion on that occasion was that the slaughter programme was only really being implemented in Northern Ireland.
We therefore agreed to send a further inspection team: that is the first point.
As for the specific British proposal, it will now have to be examined by the committee which takes over from the multidisciplinary committee, and that body will also decide which experts should be assigned to consider the matter.
We cannot impose a rigid deadline on the scientists for completing their evaluation of the proposal.
But as soon as they reach a positive conclusion, we in the Commission will lose no time in bringing forward a proposal, and at that stage the normal decision-making process will begin - in other words, the Commission will submit a proposal to the Standing Veterinary Committee.
If the Standing Veterinary Committee takes a decision by a qualified majority, the matter will be settled.
Otherwise, the Commission will have to submit a formal proposal to the Council, and it will then depend on the Council's reaction to that proposal.
If there is a qualified majority of Ministers in favour, then the proposal will be deemed approved by the Council.
But if a majority of Member States are against the proposal, it will fall and cannot be tabled again.
If there is a simple majority of Member States in favour, the proposal will go back to the Commission, which will then take the final decision.
That is the agreed procedure, and that is why it is very difficult at this stage to set any definite date.
