Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know the problems that are currently confronting social security systems throughout Europe.
The simple question of whether our pensions are secure now exercises not only the Germans, but an ever increasing number of the Union's citizens.
The call from the Member States for more private pension provision cannot be ignored.
It is not surprising that many people are attracted to invest in securities - a sector of the financial market that is as sensitive as it is risky.
Against this backdrop, the directive on investor compensation schemes takes on further topical significance.
The most important concern is to protect small savers.
We should therefore welcome the fact that, after a tough battle between the Council and Parliament, a compromise has been reached, opening the way for the directive to come into force.
Once again the codecision procedure involving the Conciliation Committee has proved its worth.
Small investors must be able to deal with branch offices of companies selling securities in the Community, or receive securities services in the context of the international trade in services, with as much confidence as when dealing with domestic companies.
That is why investor compensation schemes must be in place in all the Member States, to ensure that small savers at least have a uniform minimum level of protection in the event of a securities firm being unable to meet its obligations to its investors.
We introduced legislation some time ago to provide for this type of protection - albeit through very different systems - in the case of credit institutions.
Here, the uniform minimum compensation of ECU 20 000 per investor has been set at a level that is designed to protect the interests of small investors.
It is also designed to allow the Member States to stipulate that investors must bear a proportion of any losses.
However, competition is part and parcel of the internal market, and this brings me to my main criticism of the directive.
The rapporteur has already discussed this point in detail.
The Council takes the view that the level and extent of cover offered by the various compensation systems should not become an instrument of competition.
The Council fears that the market will be disrupted if the branch offices of securities firms can offer better cover than a securities firm licensed in the country where the securities are bought.
To put it plainly, the European Parliament sees the arrangement which the Council is proposing as a ban on the export of services by securities firms based in countries where the system offers a higher level of cover than that of the country in which the branch office is located.
Only the fact that this arrangement, or export ban, will not apply after December 1999 has prompted the House to give way here in the interests of reaching a compromise.
It should be noted that in the course of the Conciliation Committee procedure, Parliament succeeded in ensuring that compensation will be calculated on the basis of the current market value of the securities, and will be paid out without delay.
The compromise that was reached thus takes account both of investor protection and of the need to maintain confidence in the financial system.
It represents a significant contribution to the completion of the single market, and that is why my group recommends that the compromise should be adopted.
