Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin by congratulating my colleague Riitta Myller on a truly outstanding report.
It analyses the present situation very well, shows where reforms are needed and makes proposals for the future.
Cross-border and interregional cooperation in Europe, I believe, is one the kernels, one of the centrepieces and one of the flagship activities of this European Union, because it puts into practice our ideal of an increasingly integrated Europe, our belief that integration is far more than a mere catchword and that economic and social cohesion must be pursued in earnest.
Interregional and cross-border cooperation means looking beyond our own four walls, taking advantage of the spinoffs from such cooperation and, where frontiers previously created obstacles and made the joint use of facilities difficult, whether for infrastructural, social or simply interpersonal reasons, dismantling such frontiers.
This phenomenon can already be experienced in many parts of the European Union.
Anyone who, like me, comes from a region in which four European countries meet - Belgium, France, Luxembourg and Germany - can see that this is a highly desirable development.
But you can also see that its organizational implementation, especially in the administrative domain, still poses problems, even today.
Everyone knows that four different administrative structures come into contact there, with different levels of government having to act together.
That does not make it easy, but the people on the spot, the administrative bodies, are trying to find answers, some of them on the basis of structural assistance from the European Union.
I believe that is important.
However, I must also say that future interregional and cross-border cooperation should entail no moves to create, or to demand the creation of, any additional tiers of administration.
Political responsibility for this work, within the bounds we have set, must be entrusted to the bodies with the democratic mandate to shoulder that responsibility.
It is their task to carry it out.
But we in the European Union do not only have internal borders to dismantle; we also have external borders.
My colleague Riitta Myller stated that very clearly.
I refer you to her report, which I fully endorse.
As far as we in the European Union are concerned, our external borders currently touch on the regions where the greatest upheavals have been occurring.
It is at those borders that the widest prosperity gaps are to be found, and it is there that the bulk of our work will have to be done.
The third aspect, which we introduced in the past within the INTERREG framework and which I regard as very important, is that Europe should be seen from the perspective of regional planning in the wider sense.
It should no longer be considered as a collection of nation States or individual regions within those States; we must focus on entire geographical areas and their problems - by which I mean the Baltic region, the Mediterranean Basin, etc. and act accordingly.
Ladies and gentlemen, structural reform is on the agenda for the coming weeks and months.
Personally speaking, I believe that interregional cooperation and the structural funds of the European Union dedicated to that purpose, in other words INTERREG, are one of the main assets that must be preserved, even after a reform, because this is the most European of all the work we can undertake.
Cooperation is an important point.
When we talk about concentrating the structural funds and improving their efficiency, that means concentrating especially on the things that are very good and very important and reinforcing them.
My appeal is that due prominence be accorded to the INTERREG resource in the forthcoming structural reform.
Cross-border and interregional cooperation form one of the main pillars of the European edifice.
I sincerely congratulate my colleague Riitta Myller on her outstanding report, to which I pledge my support.
