Mr President, I should like to use today's debate on fisheries as an opportunity to highlight the importance of the legislative work we do in the Committee on Fisheries, and the value and status of that work within the policy of the European Union.
Fishing is a long-established and traditional occupation which also has a future.
It includes key aspects such as the area of international policy, based on international fisheries agreements - as described by Mr Crampton - and on the European Union's involvement in various international organizations, for example NAFO.
This means that, in a sense, fisheries are part of the European Union's common foreign and security policy, and its policy on development.
However, one of the failings of the Maastricht Treaty was that it did not take account of our efforts to ensure that future international fisheries agreements were subject to the assent procedure.
That would have had the effect of strengthening the rights of the European Parliament, both in this area and more generally.
To that extent, we believe that by bringing our action concerning the fisheries agreement with Mauritania before the Court of Justice pursuant to Article 228 of the EEC Treaty, the Committee on Fisheries is promoting the further institutional development of the EU.
Moreover, fisheries policy is also part of structural and employment policy.
An estimated 20 000 people are employed directly on fishing vessels operating under fisheries agreements.
To that number should be added between 25 000 and 50 000 shore-based jobs.
And that leaves aside downstream employment in the processing industry.
I cannot overemphasize the point that these jobs are being maintained in structurally weak areas which depend on fishing and offer no alternative employment.
Fisheries policy is also part of environment policy, because of the significant impact which it has on marine ecosystems.
And, last but not least, fishing is part of food policy.
As a rich source of protein, fish provides one of the basic nutritional building-blocks.
Our task over the next few years is to reformulate Europe's common fisheries policy to meet the needs of the period after 2002 - in other words, the very near future.
So what is to be done?
The Commission must draw up guidelines for the evaluation of protocols which are about to expire, as well as future protocols.
Amongst other things, these must contain the most reliable information possible on the state of fish stocks, an element of coordination with other Community activities, and an informed cost-benefit assessment.
The working atmosphere in the Committee on Fisheries is good, and allowed us to reach a workable consensus on the Crampton report.
I hope the conclusions of the report will also be supported by the Commission and the Council, and I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of the Crampton report, and all the other reports.
