Mr President, the Amsterdam Treaty is no peak achievement and there is no cause for rejoicing.
But nor does the Treaty deserve the disapproval, scorn and contempt many speakers are heaping on it.
It will prove itself better than its present reputation.
Certainly, compared with the gigantic problems facing Europe, the heads of state and government have all turned out to be dwarfs.
Mr President of the European Council, for obvious reasons that really does not apply to you!
The new Treaty has remained the same mishmash as the old one.
Not a trace of simplification and clarity!
But above all, the Treaty still does not make the European Union capable of enlargement.
We need further institutional reform before the next accession.
Here it is more important to broaden the margin for majority decisions in the Council than to reduce the number of Commissioners.
The Treaty does not measure up to all that needs to be done in the Union.
But measured against the existing Maastricht Treaty, the new Treaty represents notable progress.
Parliament has been strengthened considerably.
We are co-legislators, with equal rights.
Certainly, there are some gaps, but they can be filled.
If anyone had prophesied two years ago that it would prove possible to replace the entire cooperation procedure with the co-decision procedure he would have been regarded as a nutcase!
Our strategy of concentrating on co-decision was successful.
Our two representatives, Elmar Brok and Elisabeth Guigou, were successful, after spending a year involved in drafting the Treaty under difficult conditions.
I would like to give special thanks to Elisabeth Guigou and Elmar Brok for the outstanding job they have done!
(Applause) I now hear that attempts are being made to tinker with the Treaty retrospectively because in some cases the codecision right was not established systematically, that attempts are being made to withdraw the co-decision right again in cases where the Council has to decide unanimously.
I must warn against that!
The European Parliament cannot accept any retrospective amendments to the Amsterdam Treaty now that it is adopted!
(Applause) There has been some progress.
Yes, I too would have wished for a better Treaty, but a better Treaty is no use failing the will to implement and apply it in full.
The Treaty is a step backwards in terms of establishing freedom of movement because it requires unanimous decisions for the next five years.
But although it was possible to take majority decisions for a whole ten years, the governments never did so!
We criticize the common foreign and security policy provisions as totally unsatisfactory.
Yet they do allow for some action if the political will is there.
For instance, if you want SFOR in Yugoslavia to have a new task and its mandate extended, you can decide on that, regardless of the provisions of the new foreign and security policy.
But a chapter on employment is not an employment policy by a long way.
So long as the governments do not do what they themselves decided, namely translate the Delors White Paper and the Santer employment package into political action, they can introduce as many employment chapters as they want in the Treaty.
Incidentally, the point about fully applying the provisions of the Treaty applies to the European Parliament too.
We must change our method of working if we really want to make effective use of our new rights.
(Applause) So we need this Amsterdam Treaty and we will not stand still; but, Mr President of the Council, the method used so far for amending the Treaty is finished.
If you continue in this manner you will achieve less and less in future, until you are faced with nothing.
The Union will be forced into further reforms sooner than you might think.
We in the European Parliament will ensure that in so doing it does not lose sight of the vision of a just, democratic, united Europe with the ability to act, to create jobs and to secure peace.
(Applause)
