Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
I should like to follow what my colleague Oostlander has said, and to thank Mr Swoboda for mentioning the accident which has occurred.
These were all people who, on behalf of the international community, wanted to help people down there to regain freedom and peace, to make co-operation possible.
The fact that life has to be sacrificed for this is very sad.
I hope the citizens of Bosnia-Herzegovina appreciate that there are people who risk their lives to help them organise the future.
Now to return to the election which we observed.
I think we should note that this step towards elections was a very important one towards making this country achieve of peace.
Without communal elections there can be no multi-ethnic cooperation in this country.
Without the achievement of these communal elections this cannot happen.
I should like to remind you that - as my colleague Oostlander has already said - the people in this election voted where they wanted, because they came from there.
They did not, therefore, vote for the places to which they had been expelled, but for their places of origin.
I think that is an important sign for us, so that we, the international community, should now try to use the results of these communal elections with the local authorities in order that these people really can return.
This should not be in order for us to produce a community without a population, but that the government elected there, the council, should once more have the citizens whom it represents.
I think this is an important step towards the implementation of Daytona.
We must obviously take other steps together with the Commission.
Commissioner van den Broek has promised me this.
We must be flexible in laying down conditions for aid.
If a community behaves in such a way that it really implements the results of this election, and in the speediest possible manner, the we must give it the means towards to reconstruction.
And so that it can be an example and noted by neighbouring communities: if one behaves properly, if one really obeys the agreement, then one will be rewarded.
That is the only way for us to establish peace and ensure that multi-ethnic cooperation is once again possible.
