Mr President, President Santer, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin with a word of acknowledgement and congratulation to the Commission, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, for preparing and presenting to us today its Agenda 2000 for a stronger and larger Union.
This is an encouraging signal - encouraging, too, for co-operation between the European Commission and the European Parliament.
But, President Santer, we expect you to ensure that important debates in the future are not released in advance by press spokesmen; important political issues should always first be presented in the European Parliament, representing as it does 370 million citizens.
If anyone, ten years ago, had been bold enough to predict that the European Commission, in the person of its president Jacques Santer, would propose to the European Parliament on 16 July 1997 that negotiations on European Union membership should begin with Estonia, Poland, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Slovenia and Cyprus, he would have been dismissed as a fantasist.
But our generation has witnessed a dramatic transformation of this continent in the years 1989-90 and since, a transformation probably unmatched in any previous period of history.
Let us never forget that it was the people of the central and eastern European states who made that transformation possible.
(Applause) It was the people of central and eastern Europe upon whom communist dictatorship was enforced after 1945.
It was the people of central and eastern Europe who always held fast to the idea of freedom and human rights, and to the desire to shape their own lives and their own social order.
For that, we in the west of Europe owe great respect, profound recognition and sincere thanks to the people of central and eastern Europe.
Those people now have the right to safeguard the free and democratic way of life they have won by their peaceful revolution.
They do not want to be deceived and abused as they were before.
We in the European Union have a duty now to help the people of central and eastern Europe to safeguard their own freedom.
The European Union is linked by European agreements to Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Poland, to the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Bulgaria and Romania.
Although these states are not yet Members of the European Union, they are all members of the European family.
We have a political and moral obligation to enable these countries to join the European Union, offering them a structured procedure and a predictable time frame; and an obligation to offer them a European Union with democratic institutions, a European Union which will be the sheet anchor of the European continent in the 21st century, a European Union which can regulate its internal and external affairs on a unified, effective, resolute and convincing basis.
In the preparations for access to the European Union - as President Santer and Commissioner van den Broek have both said - no country must be discriminated against.
When the Commission proposes that accession negotiations should begin with the six states - five plus one, in other words - it must be made clear that the other five states that are willing to join are not being excluded.
There must be no clear-cut dividing line between ins and outs.
That was what the Commission said, and we were glad to hear it.
But we need to make it clear that, within the framework of the accession strategy and on the basis of the annual reports to be drawn up by the Commission, any country with which the European Union has concluded a European agreement can, by a flexible process, move forward to become a country with which accession negotiations can take place.
Only if we express that view clearly and repeatedly will we encourage the populations of all the central and eastern European states with which we have concluded agreements to continue their resolute efforts to complete the laborious but necessary process of reform.
As yet, we do not have answers to all the questions arising from the enlargement of the European Union.
But there are a few answers we can give.
In regional policy - I say this for the benefit of Mrs Wulf-Mathies - we must concentrate the financial resources on the areas that need them most.
Commissioner Fischler has repeatedly stressed that the agricultural policy is in need of further reform.
The President of the Commission has referred to enormous sums: DM 275 billion.
If we are to use that money, which we in the Group of the European People's Party support, then we must also make sure that it is spent sensibly and that the expenditure is subject to sensible monitoring.
Frequent reference has been made to the Marshall Plan.
The success of the Marshall Plan was based on the fact that it was a low-interest loan that stimulated the initiative of those receiving it.
It is true that the European Union's programmes are being opened up to the accession candidates, to enable them to prepare for accession.
Would it not also be sensible to link those candidates to the European Union before their accession by involving them in the work of the European Union - for example, as observers in the European Parliament?
The Commission proposes that most of the issues relating to accession should be discussed bilaterally with the applicant countries.
On the other hand, a European conference is planned for the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and for policy on internal affairs and justice, involving a meeting of heads of State and Government once a year.
We cannot help wondering whether it might not be more sensible for this European conference to be extended to include other matters, at ministerial level.
I emphatically support what Mr Hänsch said about this: that those countries with which accession negotiations are not yet taking place should also have a seat at the table within a multilateral framework, because we know that this is of great political and psychological importance for the states of central and eastern Europe.
What part will Turkey be playing?
We do need answers here!
Above all, we must move forward to European monetary union punctually on 1 January 1999, because this will bring the European Union new prospects, hope and strength for the future.
As we approach the year 2000, Europe is faced by important challenges.
We, the Group of the European People's Party, have always been on the side of those who want to reform the European Union.
So we welcome the Commission's undertaking to the Member States to convene an Intergovernmental Conference immediately after the year 2000, whose primary purpose will be to contribute to the establishment of majority voting as the basic decision tool in the Council of the European Union.
We, the Group of the European People's Party, stand for a united, peaceful and democratic Europe in the 21st century.
We shall achieve that aim if we work with courage and resolution, but also with patience and commitment, for the future of this ancient but constantly self-renewing continent of Europe.
(Applause)
