Mr President, in terms of effective organization, the European Community's efforts to combat organized subsidy fraud is roughly equivalent to Michael Schumacher trying to win a Formula I race in a horse-drawn cart.
This is not the fault of the European Parliament.
There are knowledgeable Members of this House, notably Mrs Theato and Mr Bontempi, who have long been trying, with a wealth of knowledge and persistence, to make something happen.
So this charge has to be laid at the door of the Council.
After all, it is really endearing when Mrs Sorgdrager refers to the mutual exchange of ideas between Parliament and the Council, but I cannot help suspecting that this cosy chat will leave organized crime somewhat cold, and will certainly have no impact on its activities.
And it costs little to talk about Europol at every opportunity, especially when the convention which is supposed to provide the basis for Europol has not even been ratified yet.
The reason why our organization is so wretched and so detrimental to the reputation of the European Union is that we are talking here about system failure.
We have vested the European Community with powers of disposal over money.
But we have failed to give it the authority to defend that power of decision against abuse, by making use of the criminal law where necessary.
That situation does not exist in any Member State.
There, whoever has the power of disposal over money can haul the perpetrators of fraud before the courts and have them sentenced.
The European Community cannot do that; it has to rely on the Council, on the individual Member States, to do it, and that is precisely where the system breaks down.
For the Community to take action under the criminal law supposedly violates national sovereignty.
Since the most important power of government, the power to distribute money, has already been transferred to the Community, it would only be logical if, in addition to that power, the Community were to be authorized to protect that money by recourse to the criminal law.
Because any other approach is ineffective.
We know that from experience, and from the comic if appalling example that Mr Bösch has just quoted.
So unless we are prepared to ensure that the Community has criminal law jurisdiction to act in certain areas where it already has responsibilities, then we are always going to be impotent to deal with the criminals.
And that is a responsibility that no one can really take.
