Madam President, there is still a great deal of agitation over the last decision on the Baldarelli report.
As the responsible coordinator, I really must say at this point that we shall probably see something happening now that none of us wanted, namely the intervention of the United States in the Mediterranean, which will harm Italian fishermen and hence the Community fishing industry in general.
In that respect Mr Görlach's comments were inappropriate and did not look far enough ahead.
But of course my task is not to give another opinion on that report, particularly since we have now sent it back, but rather to comment on Mr Kindermann's felicitous report.
Mr Kindermann rightly stated that it is high time Sweden and Finland were integrated into the common European fisheries policy.
Sound proposals to that end have been tabled by the Commission.
Be that as it may, Mr Kindermann has seen fit to suggest two improvements.
He has tabled amendments to that end, and the Group of the European People's Party fully supports those amendments.
On the issue as a whole, I must add that the Commission is seeking a fleet limitation, but we in the PPE Group feel that this is misplaced.
A restriction of the size of fishing fleets like that proposed by the Commission is in fact currently being laid down in the Multiannual Guidance Programme MGP IV, and this should not be forestalled in such a manner.
Moreover, we can see that the Baltic fisheries are in exceptionally good shape.
The annual report for 1996 on the German fishing industry produced by the Federal Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Forestry, for example, states that fish stocks in the Baltic are continuing to recover.
This applies especially to the codling population.
Stocks of herring and sprat continue to be very healthy.
When, incidentally, do we ever hear such good news from the fisheries sector?
The second point of criticism in Mr Kindermann's second amendment relates to the fisheries structure.
The Commission proposal does not seem terribly practicable in this respect.
The rapporteur reemphasized this point very clearly and proposed a logical alternative.
In general terms, I should like to stress that with the accession of Sweden and Finland the Union has two new littoral States of the Baltic Sea among its members.
This means that four of the nine States with Baltic coastlines are now members of the Union.
That will simplify fisheries management in the Baltic as a whole and make it more efficient, because the same set of rules will apply.
It is not only for that reason that we relish the prospect of future enlargements of the European Union, especially since we believe that fisheries policy is but one aspect of European policy, and we must ensure that we create equal terms and conditions for all.
