Commissioner, I believe that budgetary problems are not the main issue as far as you are concerned.
That was the case six months ago.
But the arguments have changed.
Even if budgetary problems were your main concern, though, there are other ways of achieving savings.
I have already pointed out to the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that a linear reduction is somewhat unimaginative.
It is also ecologically unsound.
And socially unsound.
You keep telling the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development that you want the premiums to be both ecologically and socially beneficial.
So why not start with this proposal, if it's cuts and savings you want?
Incidentally, you displayed a very curious turn of logic today in saying that because we've cut back on flax we must also cut back on hemp, otherwise hemp will have an advantage and the oilseeds have an advantage because we cut back on cereals.
The fact of the matter is that you always regard price cuts as the automatic line to follow.
Mr Funk, I must inform you that we, as a group, naturally support your report.
But you don't make it easy for us.
After all, we tabled an amendment - it's still on the table, and I can hardly wait to see how your group will view it and vote on it - to try to shoot down this idea, but with the proviso that we arrive at a reform of the compensatory payments in a way that takes account of social and ecological criteria, with a gradual reduction, a staggered reduction, and more of a shift towards ecological methods of farming.
You always flatly refused this in the Committee for Agriculture and Rural Development.
Similar amendments were tabled by the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
So you are making it difficult for us.
You as a group - not you personally, but you have to answer for the others - are just as contrary as the Commission: they say 'Cut it!' and you say 'No!' but there must be possibilities somewhere in between, at least for the future.
The same applies to set-aside.
There is one amendment, Commissioner, which you failed to discuss: the amendment that the set-aside areas that are under clover should be permitted to be used next year.
As you know, the European Parliament adopted that amendment by a majority last year, and although that doesn't necessarily mean that the Commission must act on it, I should be most grateful if you would take a look at this problem.
Here again, I can hardly wait to see how your group will vote on our present application.
Who knows, we in my group may even make our voting decision conditional on yours.
If the socialists vote differently, you need us to secure a majority on this point.
That might be one way of coming to an arrangement.
Overall, though, Commissioner, I believe we are on the eve of reform - as you made clear - and the estimates would then have to be clear.
I believe we must make it clear that we want to move away from a world market orientation towards a single market orientation.
We must make it clear that we are not going to grant compensatory payments for all farmland.
We must make it clear that we want no more export subsidies, and we must make it clear that what were formerly flanking measures are becoming the focal point of agricultural development, where of course we need money.
I understand all that, but of course we can't completely axe something somewhere else just so that we can finance it.
