Mr President, I should like to begin by expressing my complete agreement with what Mrs Pack has just said - I too believe the Dayton Agreement bears a very great responsibility for many of the problems we are witnessing in the former Yugoslavia, problems which are now becoming particularly acute in Mostar and Brcko.
I must admit, though, that the present motion for a resolution fills me with astonishment in certain places at the constant use of double standards.
When we listened to the announcements about the city of Brcko on 14 February, we were first told that the city would be awarded to the Serbs.
Not until this rightly provoked massive protests from the Muslims and Croats was it announced that the decision would be deferred for a year.
Well, we can already begin to imagine what kind of decision will be taken in a year's time.
There will be a capitulation to the more vociferous and probably stronger claimants, the Serbs, although until the Muslims were driven out they were by far the largest ethnic group in Brcko, followed by the Croats, with the Serbs ranking only third.
Every faction in the world that pursues a policy of ethnic cleansing is now gazing spellbound at Brcko - because they see the possibility that their dangerous and degraded activities may be ratified by international arbitration.
That, in my view, is one of the main dangers.
Nor, following the experiences of recent months with the Serbian part of Bosnia and the flagrant disregard of numerous provisions of the Dayton Agreement, must we allow ourselves to be deluded into thinking that Brcko, once it is under Serbian control, will function in the future as a crossroads through which the historical highway to the north, of vital importance to Muslims and Croats, can pass.
As soon as international control ends, that gateway will be closed.
We should, after all, learn a lesson or two from history.
Wherever an unnatural corridor has been created, it has led to the next war.
We need only remember what a disaster the Polish corridor brought down upon us.
One more point about the motion on Mostar.
It would be nice if, at least occasionally, we were to honour the legal principle of audiatur et altera pars , instead of blaming everything on the Croats, which is what always happens here.
