Mr President, even in 1994, following the decision of the GATT group of experts, it should have been clear that the common organization of the banana market did not conform to the rules of free international trade.
The GATT and the WTO are blind to the requirements of consumer protection, environmental protection and social standards.
The GATT agreement obeys only the logic of unfettered free trade.
Even in December 1994, we Greens rejected the WTO Basic Agreement in this Parliament, and were half criticized for it.
So it is nice to see that some of those in the grand coalition of uncritical WTO-sympathisers have in the meantime found their way to a somewhat more realistic assessment of the World Trade Organization.
There are some here in Parliament, and - if Mr Fischler can be believed - there are apparently some in the Commission.
The WTO threatens the development policy aims of the Community.
I am afraid the ruling against the common organization of the banana market will become a precedent for condemning all cooperation with ACP states.
The Lomé Agreement is subject to a WTO exemption only until February 2000.
Then the World Trade Organization regulations will force a basic modification to the development cooperation of states in the European Union.
I do not mean by this that the banana COM was perfect in every way.
Clearly it did not only serve development policy objectives, but because of the system of licensing allocations, it also fuelled competition for market share between the banana multinationals.
Quotas should be allocated to producing countries, not to importing companies.
Small and medium businesses, and fair trade initiatives in particular, need appropriate access to the European market.
An explicit fair trade quota, as has always been demanded by the European Parliament, must at long last be introduced.
By just such a generously tailored quota for production resulting from social and environmental agreements, EU development policy objectives can be made more visible.
