Mr President.
Our debate today would be completely unnecessary in a fully-functioning democracy.
The will of this Parliament would have been respected and the intention of the WTO panel on Helms-Burton would have been implemented.
But in May this year, Mr Commissioner, you proceeded independently and we reprimanded you.
We learned that you had had a private audience with Big Brother to calm things down.
You made completely unacceptable concessions.
That had nothing, absolutely nothing whatever, in common with staying loyal to principles.
Two months later we were proved quite right.
On 11 June the US Congress further increased the internationally much-criticized US embargo.
We had voted for the exact opposite and for that very reason had demanded the panel you circumvented.
Mr Commissioner, the citizens of Europe as a whole have become more than sceptical about the WTO.
The World Trade Organization has run into a real crisis of legitimacy.
What do we need such an organization for, if it only acts as a referee when the matter concerns opposition to social achievements, or opposition to conservation of the environment?
What do we need a WTO for, if those with power continue to machinate independently, as soon as they themselves come up for public scrutiny?
What do we need a WTO for, if it gets round its own rules in secret negotiations, and then even proposes to use the results of these as the basis for a multilateral investment agreement affecting us all?
We demand detailed information and the participation of everyone at the negotiations for an MIA, which has so far been at OECD level and will certainly later continue at WTO level.
At least a significant number of developing nations must vote for it, in order for such an agreement to be made at all.
I think the point made by Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel is very relevant.
To return to the matter of Cuba.
The EU must not continue to knuckle under, but must sensibly fund the existing budget items, instead of deleting them.
It must at long last introduce a treaty of cooperation with Cuba.
The investment protection that the USA has set at such a high level is no current problem at all for Europe.
I would point only to Cuba's investment protection agreements with such countries as France or Germany.
Miami vice is really not our business!
