Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, whenever the question of human rights in the European Union is on the agenda, national sensitivities suddenly begin to dominate again, and indeed under the banner of non-interference in countries' internal affairs, a concept which I remember well as a cornerstone of the human rights policy of the Communist countries.
But the European Parliament is checked here by the European Convention on Human Rights - the only legal framework for any discussion of the protection or violation of human rights.
It clearly was not created with this in mind!
A twofold error underlies this approach.
Firstly, Article F(2) of the Treaty on European Union requires the Union to respect fundamental rights, not only as guaranteed by the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, but also as they result from the constitutional traditions common to the Member States, in which the social and cultural basis of human rights is taken into account and amply developed - and certainly not always as restrictively, Mr Nassauer, as in the German Constitution.
Secondly, Parliament is not the European Court of Human Rights and is not conducting a trial, which can naturally only take place on legal grounds.
This is a report which has to draw on the human rights concepts embodied in the relevant UN Declarations, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child, and lastly the whole body of non-discrimination legislation of the European Union itself: everything, that is, which the Helsinki Final Act and the Charter of Paris refer to as the 'human dimension' .
Indeed, this forms part of the Member States' common legal philosophy.
How can it be neglected, therefore!
The purpose of this report is not to freeze human rights concepts and practices at their 1950 level, but to update them in accordance with the totally different circumstances of our times.
Since the Council has just given a lamentable example of the weakness of the European Union's human rights policy, it is now up to Parliament to rouse itself and demonstrate to the people of Europe and the world that a sufficient number of Europeans wish to rectify that weakness.
