May I wish the Bureau and the Fisheries Directorate of the Commission a happy new year?
It was indeed very regrettable that we were unable to have a proper debate last December with you, Mrs Bonino.
Today we have to debate with you and your fisheries directorate how we can make progress in the common fisheries policy, convinced that fisheries is an important branch of industry in the European Union, especially in the many coastal regions of Europe dependent on this industry for jobs.
It is very regrettable, as you said, that at the Council meeting in December valuable time was lost arguing about the allocation of possible fish, which may not longer exist, rather than spending the time on dossiers on which Parliament had already expressed its view.
We of course welcome the agreement on satellite monitoring, even although it is only the largest boats that are equipped with this new technology.
This fleet which is relatively small but nonetheless important for the EU fishing is at least a start in the new technologies.
Mr Bonino, you said we must act decisively if the fishing industry is to survive in the long term in the EU.
My group supports you in that view.
I should like to ask you, as you have asked us, to work closely together with us to find a solution.
Otherwise the crisis in the fisheries sector will not finish, but fishing will.
I am quite worried that the present texts being discussed in the Council of Ministers differ considerably from those on which Parliament was consulted.
I urge the Commission to respect the right of this House to a further consultation.
We welcome the proposal not just to simplify but also improve the technical measures for stock conservation: nets with larger meshes, more selective nets with square mesh panels where appropriate and the principle of closed areas are essential principles if juvenile fish are to be given a better chance of surviving.
The Council of Ministers will be failing in its duty if it does not act immediately or it if waters down the proposals.
A transitional solution will only waste valuable time.
The fishermen have told us clearly that they want conservation measures.
Now we learn today that the Council of Ministers is unwilling to agree to measures for a proper reduction in the fish catch and in the fleet's capacity.
Both are needed to restore a balance in the available resources, as you have said.
The dangers are real and serious if we do not take control of the situation.
Other political forces will dictate action and force their ideas on the fishing industry, including some which want to close down the fishing sector.
The remaining months until the North Sea Protection Conference will prove this and public opinion will be manipulated.
At the end of the day fishermen will be isolated.
That means that we must change our whole way of thinking.
In the excellent hearing organised by our splendid former chairman, Mr Arias Cañete, one thing was obvious from the start: the chase for fish will continue mercilessly if we do not solve the crisis once and for all.
For far too long we have been hearing only bad news about the present management of the fishing resources.
But we also heard some good news at the hearings.
The industry is often prepared to take account of lasting use of resources and thereby put an end to this destructive chase.
New Zealand and Iceland are good examples here.
I urge you to take their positive experience on board and present suitable proposals to this House.
We are fortunate to have Carmen Fraga as the new chairman of the Committee on Fisheries and as rapporteur on the future of the common European fisheries policy from the year 2000.
I firmly believe that if we all pull together and are guided by realism then the fisheries industry has a future.
I am very curious to see what emerges from the Committee on Fisheries in the next two and a half years.
