Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, agriculture is without doubt in the process of changing direction.
Liberalization through the WTO, more and more new and improved production methods, together with international competition, have brought major changes in recent years.
Obviously we should not lump everything together indiscriminately, yet I do think that somehow BSE fits into the picture.
We must take care that agriculture does not unintentionally move in a direction that is remote from the people.
The coming years will have to bring some reforms with them.
And we must pay special attention to consumer wishes.
It seems quite clear that the consumers largely want natural and healthy products and that natural production methods and small-scale farming will also benefit the rural areas.
One of the main aspects of this new trend is to make the origins and ingredients of agricultural products clearly identifiable.
This also involves designations of origin as provided for in Regulation 2081 which we are discussing here and the labelling of beef, which is finally to be introduced in the wake of the BSE disaster.
That is the only way finally to restore consumer confidence and the only way to ensure fair competition between producers and the free market.
Of course the traditions and cultural differences of the European regions must also be reflected.
I think I may say that every region in this European Union has its own quite specific features and, I am sure, its own advantages.
As a wise man once said, every situation has its own advantages.
The question is, how to use them.
We have an opportunity to ensure that our products enjoy a good reputation and are protected from unwanted imitation.
Of course the natural boundaries are fluid in this area too.
For decades now, many products that originally came from a very specific region are being produced in other regions as a matter of course.
That is why I would plead that we set the appropriate transitional periods to cushion the adverse effects on the producers concerned.
Looking in particular at my home country Austria, I really would ask for your consideration, since very many of our products are produced in problem areas.
Mr Fantuzzi's report responds to this concern and provides for the possibility of extending the transitional period.
I think that is the right direction.
