Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the EPP Group I want to support our rapporteur, Mr Chesa, in his positive evaluation of the interim agreement and also propose that we approve the conclusion of the interim agreement.
This will make it possible rapidly to apply the trade-related provisions of the partnership and cooperation agreement.
Following the break-up of the Soviet Union, this Central Asian republic is still struggling not just with enormous political but also with very serious economic difficulties.
The entire trade system has broken down and to provide normal supplies of food and energy proved well-nigh impossible for a long time.
This resulted in an economic isolation that is still apparent today and blocked its further economic development.
Paradoxically, Kyrgyzstan's difficult situation is exacerbated by the recently implemented customs union with Kazakhstan and Uzbekistan because these two partner states have provided for and are also imposing trade restrictions on third states.
At the same time, it is clear that there is much potential for developing economic and trade relations between Kyrgyzstan and the EU.
The TACIS programmes were radically reformed for Kyrgyzstan, which may result in greater local interest and more investment partners.
Kyrgyzstan's ambitious privatization programme is the main element of the economic reform that has been initiated.
But at present the people do not seem to be very interested in becoming involved in the private economy and setting up small businesses, although there are signs of a gradual fall in inflation.
That is why the following areas seem especially appropriate for closer cooperation between the EU and Kyrgyzstan: first, the development and implementation of a new national energy plan; secondly, the transfer of technical and administrative knowhow; thirdly, the establishment of joint ventures in the field of services, tourism and infrastructure.
But what about providing the young people of Kyrgyzstan with business training?
How is the Commission organizing this help for self-help so that privatization will finally get under way?
Should we not make more use than before of the TACIS programme resources?
At any rate I think it is clear that the interim agreement offers a favourable environment for the development of trade and trade policy between the European Union and Kyrgyzstan and we should support this agreement.
