Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that there is much that can be learnt from history, so here is today's history lesson.
Prince Grigor Potemkin, the favourite of Catherine the Great, had conquered the Crimea.
When the Empress visited her new territory, Potemkin deceived her regarding its actual state with hastily built villages, false fronts and military charades.
That was in 1787.
Today, 210 years later, Prince Potemkin and the Russian Empire are long gone, but Potemkin-style villages are still being built.
The biggest ever is to be inaugurated next week in Amsterdam with the Maastricht II Treaty!
The false front is attractive and welcoming - freedom, security, the rule of law, the Union and the citizens.
Mr van Mierlo paints all this in the most glowing colours, and I really do wonder whether he actually believes what he is saying!
Because what is hidden behind the false front?
A masterpiece of empty paragraphs, as in the case of the non-discrimination article, escape routes as in the case of transparency, lip service as in the case of the so-called employment chapter, a verbose vacuum.
Maastricht II needs to make the necessary corrections to make the European Union viable for a pan-European future, for democracy and social ecology.
What we have now is not just inadequate but actually at variance with all the hopes, requirements and justified expectations we have expressed!
Maastricht II completes the first step towards the abolition of democracy in favour of the extension of executive power.
There is no other way to describe the pseudo-communitization of parts of the third pillar, the incipient erosion of basic rights and rule-of-law principles such as the individual right to asylum or data protection!
Instead of finally establishing the Union on a foundation of civil law, where security means legal certainty and not law and order!
The preamble talks about sustainability, but then the rest of the text becomes bogged down in the allpervading logic of growth which, as we know, is the very opposite of a responsible blend of ecology and economy.
A start is made on the militarization of the EU, instead of promoting the demilitarization of foreign policy.
Our task must be to push aside this false front.
We are very much given to talking about transparency and credibility.
But in that case we must not let ourselves be exploited, we must not describe something as success and progress when it is nothing of the kind!
We are not the star witnesses of the latter-day Prince Potemkin, whether his name be Helmut Kohl or Jacques or Hans van Mierlo or whatever.
Our job is to make it clear to the national governments that democracy is an essential for European integration, not an inconvenient obstacle!
We need to make it clear that there are new expectations of a change of direction in economic, social, environmental and ecological policy.
The citizens, Mr van Mierlo, want more than just bread and circuses - they want to know what's cooking, and who is cooking it, and how, and what with.
They want to help the cook.
That is called participation, and it's called democracy, in Europe too!
