Mr President, Mr Papoutsis, you said to the press a few days ago that renewable energy sources are as valuable as sitting on a goldmine.
I agree with you!
That makes what you say in your Green Paper all the more surprising, for it seems to suggest: how can I scoop water with a sieve?
Your analysis in the Green Paper is quite correct.
But your conclusion on the operational approaches that should therefore be taken is nothing, it is not concrete, shows no ambition, nothing!
Quite apart from the fact that we should have formulated clear strategies and development programmes for renewables years ago.
Let us say no more about that.
Instead, we keep hearing ritual incantations about the obligations under Rio, under Berlin, etc.
Words and more words, but no deeds!
Of course this applies particularly to the Council, if I may remind you of the meagre funds allocated to the JOULE, THERMIE, ALTENER, etc. programmes.
The Commission regrets, I admit, that very little money is spent on renewable energy sources under PHARE and TACIS and most of the money is spent on other energy forms, and in a quite extravagant manner.
This is a kind of money-losing machine with which we try to patch up the eastern European scrap-heap reactors without making them any safer.
If we want to achieve what the Commission says in its analysis, if we finally want to be credible and secure our future markets on this earth - and we are talking about future markets, that is what those who just count the money in hand should remember - this is what our energy policy should look like: an ambitious and binding commitment in regard to the proportion of renewable energy sources for each Member State for the years 2000 to 2010.
The target should be set so high as to let us fulfil our greenhouse guarantees at last, i.e., drastically reduce the values.
Secondly, well-stocked EU funds for renewable energy sources and energy saving.
That is an important pillar.
Here we could achieve 35 %.
We need to reallocate the funds we still keep putting into research into fossil energy and in particular fusion - ECU 225 million.
We would see some results from that by the year 2050 at the earliest.
We must ensure, and this is most important, that the internal energy market does not act in a sense as an obstacle to renewable energy sources, as will now become apparent, and we must coordinate all the EU aids to ensure that no more money is spent on measures that increase rather than reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
All these points are important and I can only hope that we will move from the lyrical words of the Green Paper to facts in the White Paper.
Then you will have my full support!
