Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, you have primarily been talking in terms of the importance of the Transcaucasian region for Europe.
That precisely describes the character of the PCAs, which are theoretically based on partnership, but clearly tend to favour the Member States of the Union and their interests in the region.
Questions such as the progress of democratic development, the civil rights situation, the development of a free and democratic system of justice, the ability to cope with the flood of refugees in the region, and the war between Armenia and Azerbaijan are becoming increasingly incidental.
But an equal partnership means one in which the whole population is able to participate.
The European Union must above all contribute to the stability and development of the region, and not simply display its interest in exploiting the region's oil reserves and establishing a secure corridor for the pipelines.
The region urgently needs peace, so that investment can take place and infrastructure can be built and interconnected.
This means firstly that the OSCE agreement must contribute to the reduction of the region's military capacity, since only then will a comprehensive strategy bring results.
The PCAs will be an important building block in this process, as long as they are implemented in a balanced way, for mutual benefit and in real partnership, and are actually geared to the region's needs.
The prospects for this are very varied.
In Georgia, we are seeing the first signs that the political situation is stabilizing.
The country's second government is taking care not to reignite the conflicts in South Ossetia and Abkhazia, although there is still no institutional solution.
The situation between the warring parties of Armenia and Azerbaijan is quite different.
There is a front line in that conflict which crosses Azerbaijan.
It is heavily populated by troops on both sides, and a part of Azerbaijani territory is occupied by Armenian troops from Karabakh.
The border is the front line, not the internationally recognized frontier, and it would take a single spark to cause the fighting to flare up again.
The OSCE's demand for the stepping-up of the process of achieving a peaceful settlement in accordance with its principles, including the key requirement of the creation of an autonomous region enjoying the maximum degree of self-government within Azerbaijan's internationally recognized borders, was not accepted by Armenia.
However, the Irish presidency endorsed the OSCE's statement and all its demands.
Since then, the sensitive talks on the status of Nagorno-Karabakh have ground to a halt.
This means that around a million refugees who have already been living in tents, mud huts and goods trucks for five years will have to continue to endure this situation indefinitely.
The UN's demand for repatriation of all refugees is not feasible for the foreseeable future.
If Europe is assuming that safe third countries will be found for these refugees in the present situation, it is simply deluding itself.
The UNHCR has confirmed to me that neither the political nor the legal position is conducive to finding safe third countries, especially for Armenian and Azerbaijani refugees.
A peace agreement is a precondition for economic cooperation.
Otherwise, it is simply not on - or do we intend to invest in Nagorno-Karabakh through the Latschin corridor?
In my view, therefore, we must link the ratification of the PCAs to the conclusion of a peace agreement.
That must undoubtedly be a precondition, and only then will we be able to give our support to a coherent and responsible foreign policy action.
It is an illusion to believe that economic action is possible in the current situation!
