Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the BSE affair has cost many human lives and jeopardized or indeed destroyed the livelihood of many cattle farmers.
It has created uncertainty among consumers throughout Europe and has cost the European taxpayer billions of ECU.
In its report, the Committee of Inquiry into BSE - for whose excellent work I would express my great appreciation - has drawn attention to the failings on the part of the United Kingdom, the Council and the Commission.
The report makes these clear through numerous examples.
However, I do not wish to become absorbed in the detail of the report, which shows above all the great shortcomings of the present concept of Europe.
My concern is to demonstrate that the shortcomings which have been identified are symptoms of a sickness that is inherent in the system.
The report of the BSE inquiry shows that the institutional structure cannot function as it exists at present.
The control mechanisms cannot work, where they exist at all.
My concern is the fact that the Commission has assumed de facto responsibility for legislation, without ever securing democratic legitimacy from the citizens of Europe.
My concern is that the Commissioners and the officials of the EU are acting without transparency, that they arbitrarily pass on or withhold information.
My concern is the way in which responsibility dissolves into a labyrinth, so that ultimately no one is responsible.
Finally, my concern is whether, even though all these defects have been revealed by the committee's report, there is any realistic chance of holding the Commission and all the other players to political account.
I very much regret that, on the basis of the present legal situation, the motion of censure on the Commission also affects Commissioners who have no responsibility in this matter.
However, the findings of the Committee of Inquiry into BSE do require measures to be taken.
Only in this way can the European Parliament live up to the image it seeks to have.
For this reason, we shall support the motion of censure tabled by Mr Happart.
