Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
Slowly but surely is a German maxim.
I should like to apply this saying to the discussion about the postal services guidelines, for this really has been a slow process.
Whether or not the guideline is a good one, I take leave to doubt.
It could be much more satisfactory - in particular, a definite reference to protection for employees as a result of restructuring is missing.
Nevertheless, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will accept this proposal by the Council.
We are aware how difficult it has been to obtain agreement in the Council, and we should not wish to endanger this compromise.
Our concept of a good and commercially viable postal service within the Union went further; and although the Commission regrettably adopted only a few of our amendments, the Council proposal did reflect the tenor of our resolution.
It is important for the whole Union that a regulatory framework should at last be in place for the postal services, upon which the member states can base their legislation.
Unfortunately, the wording of the guideline too often contains the word "can' , instead of "must' , and I fear that this "can' will be exploited by some Member States as a means of avoiding the European regulations.
The clear definition of universal service and the reserved sectors is really positive.
That will guarantee the consumer a service at a reasonable price in every region.
It will also be helpful during the debate in the Federal Republic on the new postal services law.
I trust that this guideline will quickly become effective without a third reading, for that will nullify the mendacious rumours in my country, which maintain that Europe is, for example, forcing us to close sub-post offices, make collections only twice a week, and so forth.
I fully support Mr Simpson's amendments, and I am pleased that the postal service for blind and partially-sighted people has been more precisely defined by Amendment No 4.
We shall not support Mr Ferber's amendments on the subject of redirection.
However reasonable and beneficial these may actually seem to me personally, they would not be accepted by the Council, and would therefore endanger the fragile compromise.
A solution will have to be found to the problem of redirection, and it will have to be more clearly defined than at present in article 13, otherwise distortions of competitiveness will remain.
I ask the Commission, therefore, to present a separate guideline proposal on the final payments, and for this to be December 2000 at the very latest when it reports on the new postal services guidelines and their implementation.
