Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me say on behalf of the EPP Group that this proposal for a directive concerning the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions relating to the classification, packaging and labelling of dangerous preparations is another good example of sensible European legislation.
The question of dangerous preparations has been regulated on a Community-wide basis since 1988.
But that regulation has been supplemented and amended on several occasions.
The present Commission proposal not only revises and brings together various legislative measures but also closes a legislative loophole by covering the environmental effects of dangerous preparations.
The reason this question is so complex is that it does not only involve a great many - several thousand - substances, but also an even greater number of preparations containing these substances.
It is a matter of several hundreds of thousands of them.
Things become even more complicated because preparations are not just sold to the end user but many of them are only used within the industry.
Many small and medium-sized enterprises produce these preparations.
They are also expected to produce all the necessary data.
That means they must of course ensure that man and the environment are protected.
In the case of any further data, however, we must achieve a reasonable balance between cost and added benefit.
In this respect, I believe that the Commission proposal formed a very good basis.
Even in the case of most preparations not regarded as dangerous, the producer must provide a safety data sheet if the users so wish.
Labelling, of course, presents particular problems.
On the one hand it has to be comprehensible to the end user, on the other hand it must include a lot of information that may be important to the processor but is of no interest whatsoever to the general public.
I think it is important for the labelling to indicate really serious risks.
There may be three, five or seven of them.
But it cannot list another 20 potential or conceivable risks.
That would involve too much labelling and would confuse rather than inform the consumer.
The same applies to listing the chemical formulas, which the normal consumer cannot understand and where giving the more general name - for instance formaldehyde - would be more sensible.
That is precisely why some of the amendments give rise to problems.
Nor would such an abundance of information offer more protection; in fact it is more likely to do the opposite because it is confusing.
Even if people might think that lists can clarify a generic term, in practice they do the opposite, for lists are limiting and disregard other possible aspects implicit in the generic term.
These are the main reasons why my group will reject some of the committee's amendments.
To finish let me draw your attention to one more point, Commissioner, namely the poor translation.
The German version at least contains a number of mistakes.
For there is a difference between 'patentierung ' (patenting) and 'potenzierung ' (potentiation).
There are several things like this in the text.
I mentioned this in committee too, but unfortunately the mistakes were not corrected.
I cordially request the Commission to look into this again.
