Mr President, on behalf of the PPE Group I should also like to congratulate the rapporteur for her report and to express my thanks for the constructive cooperation that marked the deliberations in committee, where we were able to add what we regard as essential points, which are now included in the report.
In our eyes too, cross-border and interregional cooperation is one of the pillars of the European integration process.
As the rapporteur said, there are two aspects involved: cooperation within Europe and cooperation with third countries, where this type of cooperation can pay important dividends both now and in the future.
At the same time, these efforts should not be entirely focused on social and economic cohesion but must also take account of the security dimension.
By comparison with other projects, I too would say that interregional and cross-border cooperation has a greater impact on people's daily lives, one reason being that the projects involved are often born of popular initiatives.
They merit greater attention, because these projects highlight the obstacles and difficulties that hinder cooperation, problems of which people become more keenly aware in this context.
Interregional cooperation must take more account of economic aspects, of social, environmental and planning policies, because people in border areas find it hard to understand why good health care is available on their side of the border but not on the other side, why the planners, for example, have designated their side of the border as an economic development area, whereas on the other side, perhaps little more than half a mile away, the land may be designated as a green belt with strict measures to protect the natural environment.
These are European integration problems, and that is why such projects deserve special attention.
This report must serve first and foremost as the basis for future projects, for the next programme.
Secondly, interregional and cross-border cooperation must be better coordinated with the other structural funds and the other forms of structural assistance.
Thirdly, procedures should be simplified.
If we want individual citizens or even citizens' initiatives to become involved in this domain, we cannot confront them with time-consuming and cumbersome administrative procedures that result in their having to wait up to a year and a half before receiving a definitive response to their applications.
Moreover, these programmes are a means of taking account of the specific nature of the individual regions of Europe.
As someone who lives in a border region, I can assure you that you will find convinced but critical Europeans in these regions.
We should not squander the opportunity to make greater use of the impetus for European integration that is generated in frontier areas.
I certainly hope that this highly significant report will also send the right signal to the Commission.
