Madam President, a report calling for respect for human rights should really be quite straightforward.
If only because of its scope, however, the report which is now before the House does not really lend itself to detailed discussion.
While expressing a general criticism of the report's unclear definition of human rights and echoing some of the points which have already been made, I should therefore like to focus on a particular paragraph - paragraph 146, understandably enough - which attacks Austria's legislation on the age of consent for homosexual relations.
Leaving aside considerations of international law, I see this as an unwarranted interference in Austria's jurisdiction.
Perhaps we Austrians are rather sensitive to German proposals in this area.
Furthermore, this criticism is not justified by the facts.
After long and controversial deliberations on the criminal law amendment bill of 1996, after organizing hearings of experts and taking all the arguments into account, the Austrian Parliament reached the conclusion that the protection of minors was of paramount importance.
In response to the claim in paragraph 54 that the failure to comply with the commitment to freedom of establishment has caused citizens to lose confidence in the European institutions, I would suggest to the House that the public's impression that those up in Brussels, as it is always called, simply wish to brush aside democratically established laws is leading to a far greater loss of confidence.
That is the public's real concern.
And it casts doubt on the professed commitment to subsidiarity.
I was a criminal judge for many years, and I am also the father of a fourteen-year-old boy.
Speaking from both points of view, I wish to say that I firmly believe that the repeated claim that a homosexual orientation is genetically pre-programmed is not exclusively true.
Anyone who has one in their family will know how easily influenced, how immature, young men of that age are.
The report's call for tolerance for homosexuals is not called into question; but tolerance must include understanding for those who wish to protect their sons while they are growing up.
