Mr President, this is the first fisheries debate since Amsterdam.
Parliament hoped that Amsterdam would bring progress in the joint fisheries policy towards the debureaucratization of legislative processes and another attempt at democratization, by increasing the responsibility of Parliament.
This is a perfectly normal political right of a democratic assembly in a democratic society.
However, our contributions to Amsterdam were ignored.
We are now approaching the year 2002, and it is incomprehensible that Parliament is not to make any more extensive contributions to the codecision process.
The entire internal market is involved in the codecision process.
And that makes it all the more puzzling that fisheries are to be excluded, now that the period of temporary exemptions has come to an end.
We must compensate for the lack of attention paid to us by the European Council by ensuring that our work in this House is even more tightly organized and strictly supervised, and by practising greater openness.
The challenge begins here.
Parliament must grant the necessary powers to the Committee on Fisheries.
We should therefore also make the fullest possible use of the powers granted to us in the codecision process.
We must not allow the issues of veterinary law to be removed from the jurisdiction of the Committee on Fisheries, together with similar issues such as the establishment of specific laboratories for fisheries products, and so on.
Because I venture to assert that this specialized committee can rightly claim that it has the greater knowledge!
We are also dealing today with the international fisheries agreements with Senegal and Mauritius, as we have heard.
I congratulate the rapporteurs on the quality of their informative reports.
Here again, though, I must say this: in the future we are going to demand, and take action to get, greater punctuality from the Commission and the Council, greater transparency and, especially, greater powers.
The Committee welcomes dialogue and accepts constructive contributions.
But I can say with complete confidence that it will not allow itself to be used as a tool and will not get involved in any differences of opinion, including differences with other parliamentary committees, which may be harmful to those who depend on fishing for their living.
And, in conclusion, I too would like to wish Mrs Pery every success in her future position.
