Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, there is scarcely another economic sector that is experiencing such a boom as information technology.
The EU Commission, and especially Mr Bangemann who is here today, are surpassing themselves in the production of documents, communications, green papers, etc., but I am glad that Mrs Morgan's report raises a painful subject, namely the lack of political measures in relation to the cultural and educational aspects of the information society.
The advantages of the new media are sufficiently well-known and we keep being told about them, and about the opportunities for the labour market; but we must also look at the risks of the information society and try to counter them.
The global data networks are particularly difficult to control.
Many legal questions relating to copyright and combating international crime remain unresolved.
Nor will I conceal the fact that in individual cases they could lead to anonymization or to Internet junkies in need of therapy, as became apparent in the Netherlands last week.
Both the inexhaustible benefits that keep being cited and the unresolved adverse side-effects makes one thing clear: the European Union must rapidly take account of this headlong development.
But it must not just do so by giving support to technology but must ultimately endeavour to take educational and cultural measures.
We must provide our educational establishments, schools, universities, further education colleges, with adequate computers and network access.
We must also interlink them.
We must include libraries in this network.
But we must also ensure that the teachers are adequately prepared and that they are always kept up to date, that they do no limp along behind the young people they teach in terms of their knowledge.
If they are to transmit the new technologies, they must also be able to transmit the means of using them properly.
It is important to ensure that everyone who is interested has a chance to take part in this high-speed development.
Above all, we must not make the mistake of regarding these means of communication as an end in themselves but must use them as meaningful aids, like the surgeon carrying out an operation who consults overseas colleagues or the pupils in our countries who get to know each other and their cultures via the Internet.
In that way we can do away with borders in the fullest sense of the word.
Nobody should be afraid of the human teacher being replaced by a virtual colleague one day or of the written book becoming a museum-piece.
Information technology is only a support.
We must aim to give it a meaningful educational and cultural content; we must not just concentrate on technical questions.
I hope that the Morgan report has made that as clear to others as it is to me.
