Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, cross-border interregional cooperation is undoubtedly of prime importance to the people of border regions.
It serves to guarantee peace, freedom and respect for human rights.
The key objectives of economic development, employment promotion, social and cultural cooperation, environmental protection and greater democracy are central elements of this cooperation.
In addition, mechanisms for the support of minorities must be established and developed.
I am afraid I can only agree with the rapporteur's criticism that there is no adequate strategy for interregional cooperation and that the funding instruments are too fragmentary.
What is certain is that the subsidiarity principle will have to be more rigorously applied in this domain too.
Greater responsibility for planning, administration, execution and funding must be devolved to the regional and local authorities than has hitherto been the case.
At the same time, however, decisions on cooperative measures must be a matter for democratically elected bodies.
An evaluation of the results is necessary, so that tax revenue is not squandered and wasted on irrelevant projects.
This presupposes a good control system.
Efficiency of performance must not be hampered by excessive bureaucracy and daunting administrative hurdles.
Considerable simplification is needed, along with timely advice and guidance from the Commission.
Support for less-developed regions, promotion of rural development and improvement of the necessary infrastructure must take priority if we are to avoid further migration from border areas.
The Member States in the frontier regions must press on with their cooperative ventures.
Emotional barriers must be dismantled.
The importance of this is demonstrated by the unfortunate occurrences in southern Denmark in connection with the creation of a Euroregion.
The Commission would do well to start with our colleague Mrs Sandbæk and try to dismantle her emotional barriers too.
It is my hope and wish that the development of cooperation in the border regions of Member States and third countries will be successfully expedited - irrespective of whether the countries in question want to become EU members one day - for the benefit of the people living in those regions.
That is an important precondition for the preservation of peace, freedom and democracy.
