Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, these two oral questions follow on from the knowledge obtained during the hearing in April on the legal protection of the EU budget and therefore of its tax revenue.
At the same time, they constitute an urgent appeal to the Intergovernmental Conference to adopt effective measures to combat the problem of fraud.
That hearing produced conflicting information.
First, there are already a number of instruments to deal with fraud, corruption and international organized crime.
Examples include the convention for the protection of the Community's financial interests, with its first protocol on the corruption of EU officials and second protocol on money laundering.
Other proposals are on the table, such as the high-level expert group on international organized crime and the planned joint action by the Commission against organized crime and corruption in general.
I would remind the House of the reports by the Member States on national legislation to combat fraud, and also of the notable study of a corpus juris on criminal law and criminal law procedures, which was produced at Parliament's initiative.
This makes it apparent that the ideal way of providing effective protection for the EU's financial resources would be a kind of European public prosecutor who could shift the obstacles to co-operation between the national legal institutions without violating the sovereignty of the States concerned.
All these legal texts, proposals and studies show how sensitive the public is to the abuse of Community funds and to international fraud.
But if we turn to reality, we find it both disappointing and contradictory.
Although we have achieved a degree of protection in administrative law, through the Regulation on Administrative Penalties and on-site Inspections, we are lagging far behind in terms of criminal law.
The convention I mentioned earlier, signed as long ago as 1995, and the two associated protocols have still not yet been ratified.
Indeed, I fear that it is becoming more and more improbable that they ever will be ratified by all Member States.
So these texts remain a dead letter.
But even if all the Member States were to ratify them, that would not automatically achieve balanced protection of the EU's financial interests.
The fact is that some Member States have let it be known that their legislation is already harmonized with the convention.
That this is not the case is apparent from their own national reports.
But even assuming that the convention were to be properly implemented, harmonization would still turn out to have feet of clay, because a number of aspects are not covered - such as the conciliation procedure, the limitation period, and the flow of information from administration to jurisdiction.
Clearly, we cannot sit back and wait for the possible ratification of what is in any case weak legislation.
Action must be taken, over and above the present framework.
We therefore make the following demands.
First, the Member States must accept their responsibility and ratify the convention and the two protocols by next year; secondly, if this ratification does not take place, the Commission should be called upon to propose more effective action.
Thirdly, the Intergovernmental Conference should, as previously agreed in Dublin, reinforce Article 209a of the EC Treaty to give Parliament the right of codecision.
Fourthly, the text of the corpus juris should enable the Commission to phase in proposals on criminal law and the law of criminal procedure, having due regard to aspects of constitutional law in the Member States.
In conclusion, I appeal to the Commission and to the Member States, as a matter of urgency, to do everything possible under the existing regulations to combat fraud, so that the public -and we in this House - are not constantly being horrified by subsidy scandals, real or imagined.
