Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, the elections in Albania were necessary to allow that country a fresh start.
The OECD worked with the Albanian authorities to prepare those elections, mainly using European money, and the multinational peace-keeping force, originally given a very different mandate, did in fact guarantee that things went ahead relatively smoothly on election day.
The fact is, though, that these elections were neither free nor fair - during the electoral campaign, for example, many candidates had no opportunity to present themselves to the voters in their constituencies.
For safety reasons, we ourselves, the observers, were not even allowed to visit the rural areas on election day.
And yet all Members who were there to observe the elections agreed that those elections must be accepted under the conditions that existed.
Because, after all, they were to be a starting point for the continuing development of democratic structures.
The new government has a difficult job ahead of it.
First and foremost, it has to restore order in the country - it has to collect the innumerable weapons at large, and above all it must finally dissolve the rebel committees with which what is now the governing party concluded a pact at the end of March.
We expect the government to arrange for independent experts to determine with relentless clarity just who was behind the pyramid schemes and so brought disaster upon the population with their criminal activities.
Of course the European Union must continue to help Albania.
Most of all, it must help to establish democratic structures, and I would thank the two gentlemen who have addressed us today for their reference to conditionality.
The fact that there have been eleven civilian deaths in the last three days alone shows that gathering in the weapons is an essential condition for further development.
The multinational peace-keeping force should be given a new mandate until the new government has restored order.
We of the PPE Group wish the Albanian Government every success in establishing majority within their party for the forces of democracy and leaving their communist heritage far behind them.
