Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by commenting on the draft supplementary and amending budget No 1 which Mr Brinkhorst and Mr Fabra Vallés have explained to us.
I wish to emphasize quite clearly at this point that the decision which the Committee on Budgets has proposed to the House represents a new departure in staffing policy.
And it assumes even greater importance because it is intended as a benchmark for the development of Community staffing policy in the coming weeks and months.
The Commission had initially requested almost 160 posts in order to deal with the BSE problem, a new Community priority.
We now have 35 new posts and have also linked this allocation to an internal restructuring, for the equal numbers of C and A posts suggest that something is rotten in the state of the Community.
If, as we have now proposed, expenditure on grade-C posts is reduced by the amount required for an increase in the number of grade-A posts, that will effectively demonstrate that the lid has been firmly screwed down, and it will remain screwed down in 1999 too.
It will be necessary to undertake the new tasks that will be put before us here tomorrow, when the major report on Agenda 2000 is presented, by reallocating tasks and reordering priorities, and hence also by redistributing personnel, and not simply by popping into the great European supermarket to pick up some new posts.
The second point I should like to deal with is the question of the ad hoc procedure.
Allow me to make a few comments on that.
The ad hoc procedure was conceived in an Interinstitutional Agreement and was the result of a lengthy discussion process and a dispute about the dividing-line between compulsory and non-compulsory expenditure.
It had always been clear to our side, to the European Parliament, that it is fundamentally impossible for a figure, a specific budgetary amount, to be compulsory.
Market regulations can be compulsory, but their precise financial implications in terms of a budgetary allocation cannot be compulsory, for we cannot legislate in advance for weather and for world market prices.
That is why the dispute or discussion of recent years has invariably focused on the amount of funds assigned to each item of compulsory expenditure - especially since our experience of the last fifteen years has shown that the amounts allocated are always higher than the payments the Community actually makes.
That is an invitation to engage in creative accounting.
You have just heard Mr Mulder say again - and Mr Sonneveld also said it in committee yesterday evening - that you intend to postpone payments to the oil-seed sector from one year to the next, which is what we are now describing as creative accounting.
But all those who advocate such postponement must answer the following question: what is to happen in 1999?
That, you see, is when the Financial Perspective ends, so postponement will no longer be an option.
We shall then be confronted with the problem of funding the oil-seed sector twice over in 1999 - once for the year from which payment was postponed and once for the current financial year, i.e. 1999.
The budget, however, will not yield an allocation of that size.
For that reason we have explicitly welcomed what the Council presidency said at the trialogue: not creative accounting but a real solution.
What we are proposing here in the Tillich report is an invitation to the Council of Finance Ministers to comply with its own stipulations.
It is not obliged to accept the invitation; this is an offer of negotiations to the Council, and after all we did reach an agreement at the trialogue that we should receive amended figures this autumn, so today's discussion will not mark the end of the ad hoc procedure.
