Ladies and gentlemen, the extradition convention between the Member States of the European Union before us, which was passed by the Council on 27 September last year, is essentially to be welcomed.
I think the previous speakers have made that clear.
Europe is experiencing ever closer union and increasing citizen mobility, but criminal mobility is also increasing, unfortunately.
The conditions of the previous extradition agreement have not, however, kept pace with these developments and are thus not efficient enough.
They must be improved.
We want a Europe where the citizens feel secure.
So we accept that the proposed extradition conditions are to be welcomed.
But like Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi - whom I congratulate on her wellresearched report - I too must protest most strongly about the behaviour of the Council.
The Council did not consider it necessary to involve Parliament at once and comprehensively in the preparation of the convention - as laid down in the treaty.
For this reason we must consider whether we want to continue to present our demands regarding third pillar agreements only in retrospect, or whether we should not debate how we as a Parliament should conduct ourselves with regard to the Council in order to utilize still better those few rights we still have.
On the content I would briefly like to say that the many reservations the Member States have expressed are particularly unsuitable for genuine construction of a Europe of mutual trust.
Here too I am of one mind with Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi and many other colleagues.
We also agree about the urgent need for a solution to the problem of the European Court of Justice's powers under this convention, which must be tested now.
After all Union citizens must have the opportunity to turn to the European Court of Justice on legal matters with a European dimension.
Furthermore, it is important to me that the duration of the extradition procedure should be limited and a set deadline should be introduced.
A short duration is preferable for humanitarian reasons and because of the basic law of consideration for human rights.
A clear procedure gives the person concerned the necessary legal security.
Legal security is also the point when we talk about the relationships between extradition and asylum law in the European Union.
Not without reason the Council found it necessary to add a suitable explanation to the convention.
In the Amsterdam Treaty Member States are declared to be safe countries of origin.
It seems to me to be to the point that the joint statements about asylum law in the annex to the convention should now be amended to meet these new conditions.
I now come to my last point on content, which is equally important to me, and I thank you in advance for listening to me.
As the Council recognizes in the preamble, an agreement about extradition can only be applied between states that have committed themselves to the principles of democratic constitutional states and the European Convention on the Protection of Human Rights and Basic Freedoms.
I am quite sure that no state can be expected to make an extradition to another Member State which has either annulled parts of this convention for itself by using article 15 of the EMRR, or where human rights violations are known to occur in police custody or in prison.
I must unfortunately point this out, for many human rights organizations continue to draw attention to it and we regularly condemn it in our annual reports on violations of human rights within the Union.
