I must congratulate Mrs Todini on the sound opinion she has produced.
Transnational mobility is indeed fundamental to continued unification in Europe, which ultimately stands or falls by the sympathy and understanding of its citizens, and increasingly - as far as employment and training are concerned - by the readiness of young people to move about.
The promotion of mobility is in fact a form of employment policy.
This needs to be more widely recognized, and does not only apply to Europe's border regions.
It is curious to note that in many cases, the movement of goods and capital through Europe is less problematic nowadays than that of persons.
I can also see a danger here - and it has already arisen - that if, for example, young people undergoing vocational training are given privileged access to exchange opportunities, then inequality of opportunity in education, which has been reduced considerably in Europe in recent decades, will be resuscitated as a paradoxical result of European contacts.
As we have seen, less than one per cent of young people in vocational training outside universities now take part in exchange programmes and - as has already been mentioned - young students are in effect excluded because ERASMUS grants are worth no more than pocket- money; furthermore, some countries do not allow grants to be taken abroad.
We are all in favour of a European labour market, but we are not giving unemployed people an opportunity to improve their communication skills through language tuition in neighbouring countries.
We really do need rules on the freedom of movement and a departure from the principle of territoriality.
It is also extremely irritating that - apart from these legal hurdles - many administrations in Europe still harbour an inbuilt resistance to freedom of movement.
It is equally irritating when, as happened recently, students are kept waiting for their residence permits for no good reason, or the mutual recognition of diplomas for access to the regulated professions in European countries is either delayed or simply refused out of an egotistical desire to put up barriers.
I hope that we can make some headway here and bring about improvements.
I also hope, however, that the Member States themselves will enhance the European dimension of their education systems, rather than relying unduly on the Commission's efforts to Europeanize syllabuses.
This requires better foreign language teaching, first and foremost.
Finally, I would urge that in future, more funding should be earmarked for exchange programmes in the EU budget.
I see nothing specific on this point in the Green Paper.
The question is, are the exchanges which we are demanding to remain a pilot project, or are they to be offered much more widely one day?
Just think that, to put it starkly, less money is being spent on SOCRATES than to support European tobacco-growers.
I could imagine that the Structural Funds might also be drawn on for exchange programmes - in terms of employment policy - so as to give a fair chance to a maximum number of school pupils, trainees and students who cannot rely on parental aid for educational visits abroad.
The amount of funding for our educational programmes should be increased to meet this need.
Last but not least, please bear in mind that information on mobility schemes in Europe needs to be improved substantially and a much better placement system created on the ground, particularly in companies.
As has rightly been pointed out, although these programmes are being overhauled, many people in Europe are totally unaware of their existence.
