Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I address the House on these three reports as the rapporteur for the Committee on Budgets for the 1998 budget.
First, the Funk report.
In view of the large sums in the 1997 budget that were left unused in the agricultural sector, the Committee on Budgets, in its opinion, agreed with the proposal by the rapporteur, Mr Funk, on this, and Mr Funk very largely adopted the proposal contained in the Committee's opinion, but unfortunately not the parts relating to the amendment to the Regulation.
With regard to the deferment of the oilseed payments to 1998-99, or their suspension in 1997, the Commission has expressly stated that it is not prepared to contemplate this, at least at present.
I believe we shall have to discuss this further in the course of the ad hoc procedure.
I am more inclined to favour the Commission's proposal.
As regards Mr Sturdy's report, I would at least like to congratulate the rapporteur.
He has, I think, taken the right line, even if Mr Martinez sees it differently; his proposal really is budgetary-neutral.
With regard to the present motion for a resolution by the Committee on Agriculture, it should be noted that the Committee on Budgets gave its opinion on the Commission's proposal and not on the proposal by the Committee on Agriculture in the present report, envisaging an increase by ECU 170 million.
From the procedural standpoint, therefore, it would be appropriate for Mr Sturdy's report in its present form to be referred back to committee, so that the Committee on Budgets can give an opinion on the basis of the new situation.
The amendments proposing that this increase should be covered by savings elsewhere in the agriculture budget, as is proposed by the Committee on Agriculture, is a cosmetic solution, because it is not really budgetary-neutral and ultimately it still amounts to an increase.
There are two points I should like to single out from what the Council presidency said.
I hope that you will succeed in creating a flexible structure for the budget in the agricultural sector, and I wish you every success in your efforts to do so.
But something else you said did reawaken my feelings of pessimism, and that was when you referred indirectly to horizontal cuts.
Although such cuts would be effective, and would undoubtedly be the simplest solution, it would run counter to what Honourable Members have said: that we should look at the items and make cuts where over-compensation has already existed for many years.
I believe, though, that we can and must conduct lengthy further negotiations on this.
The simplest overall solution, both for us in this House and for the Council, would certainly have been to accept the Commission's proposal.
That would have been the most logical course from the standpoint of budgetary policy.
Commissioner, you too cannot escape totally unscathed here - I have some criticisms of you as well.
It is somewhat comic, of course, that we should receive from your services, two weeks after the proposal for the draft budget, an oral correction saying that you have miscalculated by 329 million.
That, of course, will be another matter to be discussed during the ad hoc procedure.
That procedure will have begun by late autumn, and then it will be up to all of us to commit ourselves to the kind of budgetary stringency that we resolved upon in paragraphs 9 and 10 of the Guidelines.
