Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in his excellent report Mr Wiersma has rightly identified the inadequacies of the PHARE programme to date and I agree with him when he calls, among other things, for the backlog to be reduced between commitment and payment appropriations and for more money to be concentrated on those countries that are lagging behind in the economic reform process.
Also, I very much regret that evaluation has proved so inadequate up to now.
I consider that unacceptable.
I also regret the fact that the Commissioner responsible could not attend today.
In future the PHARE programme will acquire a new role with the accession to the EU of the Central and Eastern European countries.
So it is urgent to set new emphases and priorities within the programme.
I hope that will also enable us to remedy some of the well-known inadequacies.
I believe that with the adjustment of the support measures we should aim at giving the European Commission more say in the selection of programme priorities and projects in future, giving precedence to building up administrative structures and investments.
The funds must be concentrated and spent more efficiently.
Let me address one particular point on the basis of personal experience.
In my view we should give more precedence to training measures, compared also with what the Commission has proposed in the past.
As past experience shows, initial and further vocational training will play a quite central role in the accession process as a means of stimulating structural reform in the first place.
So the same value must be attached to training people in these countries as to investment in physical assets.
It is simply not good enough just to carry out company reforms under the fashionable heading of management training.
The firms themselves must be involved far more in initial and further training at all levels, especially the non-professional level.
I would ask you to take note of that.
To achieve this we need to build up a network of committed multipliers for partnerships with Western European players.
Investment in this area will create reliable partners for serious projects and have a knock-on effect that may be more important than any investment in physical assets.
