Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree that the Botz report gives an objective picture and a critical view of the development problems and structural measures in Germany over the period 1994 to 1999.
Commissioner, I think it was a good idea for this report to be submitted during the first half of the reference period because that can enable us to deal with the problems that have been identified during our further handling of the structural funds and thus make effective use of the remaining time to promote structural development in Germany.
What are the crucial points in the Botz report?
We must seek to improve the coordination between the various funds.
That means that the consultation and service capacities have to be expanded to make it easier to identify potential assistance areas.
Furthermore, in my view it also means that in future we should concentrate on fewer but more effective programmes and press ahead with them.
The application procedures have to be simplified.
And here, Commissioner, we are fully and entirely in agreement with our Italian colleagues.
After all, we cannot continue having advisory offices in order to help us find our way through the bureaucratic European application procedures.
In their own interests the regions must be more closely involved in the decision-making processes.
This applies in particular to the pilot projects, for which only 1 % of structural fund resources are available but which involve a lengthy and costly application procedure and in the end are not authorized for lack of resources.
We must make Europe more visible, more comprehensible.
The structural funds make a splendid contribution to the adaptation of the European regions.
Major differences exist between individual regions in Germany too.
I would wish, indeed I would demand that all European resources that go to the regions are also clearly recorded as such and shown in figures.
Following the German saying 'Do good and tell about it' , this would give the European Union a better image and reputation in the regions.
