Mr President, Commissioner, the regulation on improving the efficiency of agricultural structures holds the key to the adaptation of farm structures.
The promotion of investment at the level of holdings is very important, and the measures to encourage the establishment of young farmers are of great help.
The front-end grants for the introduction of operational accounting where it does not yet really exist and for assisting young farmers are, in my view, indispensable.
The measures should provide greater support for farm incomes in the less-favoured and mountain regions, since after all, Commissioner, it is your political philosophy to give the greatest possible opportunities to region-wide farming in the EU.
Cooperation between holdings is becoming increasingly important, I believe: firstly, because of the growing pressure of competition; secondly, because of the frequent labour shortages at times of peak activity; and, thirdly, because of the rising cost of machinery per hectare.
Close cooperation is urgently necessary in the reorganization of a great many agricultural holdings, and is increasingly accepted by young farmers.
I welcome the fact that the Commission grasps this necessity in its proposal for a regulation.
I should like to draw particular attention to the amendment to Article 6(4).
We wish to see investment aid for holdings in regions in which the overall number of pig places has demonstrably fallen.
This aid should not lead to the original number of pig places in these regions being exceeded.
However, since we repeatedly advocate regional production, since we wish to phase out long routes, and since the utilization of existing slaughterhouses is only sensible, this amendment should be adopted.
With regard to vocational training measures, as you can imagine, I wish particular attention to be paid to female farm workers, since the direct sale of farm products is primarily their task.
With this proposal, the Commission wishes to strengthen the market position of producers and counter the growing supremacy of the distributive trade.
Overall, this report by Mrs Redondo Jiménez is thoroughly uncontentious.
It makes only minor refinements to the Commission's proposals, and we should especially thank the rapporteur for her work.
