Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that building policy is a very heavy burden on Parliament, which is why I also presume that retaining the 20 % limit is the most delicate question we will have to resolve at the first reading.
Regardless of that, I believe we can no longer escape the necessary pressure for reform and the call for transparency in this House.
In this context I would like to openly praise the rapporteur and thank him for including in his report a demand which my group has been making in this House for a long time.
Let me refer you to paragraph 36.
We too would like to see an ecological audit of Parliament's buildings.
We cannot call on EU enterprises to observe the eco-audit directive while we ourselves sidestep it in the case of our own buildings and our own approach to paper and the environment.
The second remark I would like to make concerns the public procurement system in this House.
We have tabled a supplementary amendment on this and I would be very grateful if it could still be considered.
In my view, this House is far too sloppy in its approach to public procurement.
The Committee on Budgetary Control is currently examining the cases that have arisen in the course of last year and the year before and I believe a warning about the need to observe these public rules would be a good idea for us and especially of course for the administration and the Bureau.
My third remark concerns the urgent need for transparency in relation to allowances for us, the Members of this House.
We have now found that the working party set up to this end has not yet reached any conclusion and perhaps we should not just call for the appropriate reform proposals with a warning that we will come to our own decision at first reading in September but should say openly that in future Parliament itself will decide on Members' allowances, and not the Bureau.
In this context, I certainly support the rapporteur.
All the requests we, and in particular my group, have put forward on transparency in relation to travel allowances, checks on attendance by means of roll-call votes, auditing secretariat costs and the transferral of the general estimate of these allowances directly to the pension fund, all these requests which I and my group regard as minimum standards for transparency in relation to allowances, will be put before this House for a roll-call vote in September.
Then we will see how serious the House is about transparency!
