Madam President, I should like to deal with the resolution on Karelia and the area around Murmansk.
First of all, may I express my delight at the fact that the European Parliament is finally discussing this region, which is immediately adjacent to the European Union and yet so remote that very few people here are familiar with it.
I am also pleased that many Finnish Members of our House signed the request for an urgent debate, quite irrespective of their party allegiance, as a sign that the situation is critical and that ideology has no part to play here.
The Republic of Karelia and the Murmansk area are part of the northern economic area of the Russian Federation and are therefore somewhat remote, to put it mildly, in terms of the transport network.
During the present century, this area, because of its geographical, linguistic and even cultural closeness to Finland, as well as its strong urge to achieve self-determination, has repeatedly resisted Russian occupation, so it is, understandably enough, not a major recipient of Russian aid today.
Nevertheless, it is absolutely unacceptable that Russia should be putting every conceivable administrative spanner into the works today to prevent humanitarian aid from reaching that region.
It must also be said that control in the region is often exercised by bodies of a non-governmental nature.
The last time I personally took humanitarian aid to that country, I was faced with the rather dubious alternative of placing myself under the protection of the Russian Mafia or of the Afghanistan veterans' organization.
Today is the tenth of April.
The sun is shining here, even at this time of day, but in Karelia and the area around Murmansk it is snowing, it is cold, below-zero temperatures prevail, and people are dying of starvation and hypothermia.
It is quite simply our duty to urge the Commission to make full use of every conceivable programme, such as TACIS, INTERREG or other cross-border programmes and to do everything possible to remedy this catalogue of human suffering in our immediate vicinity.
