Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to thank the Irish presidency.
The Taoiseach himself invested a great deal of interest and initiative in the success of the presidency, but in a personal capacity I should also like to say how much I appreciated the good cooperation of Gay Mitchell and Noel Dorr, who made important contributions on employment and the Intergovernmental Conference from the European Parliament's point of view.
The Irish presidency has smoothed the way for the last six months of the negotiations surrounding the Intergovernmental Conference.
The agreement that was reached on the outstanding problems in connection with monetary union has freed us to focus our attention on the Intergovernmental Conference.
Monetary union is the final cornerstone of economic integration.
The next step must be a move towards greater political integration.
I believe that this monetary union will help to make Europe more competitive, and will contribute to an increase in stability and the creation of more jobs, and I do not share the view of Mr de Gaulle that monetary union will make one country dominant: on the contrary, monetary union will produce a sensible sharing of responsibility between the Member States of the European Union and will not make any country dominant.
From Parliament's point of view, the Irish presidency has taken an important step in the paper which it has drawn up for the Intergovernmental Conference.
In fact, it has proposed a Treaty text that would make codecision the standard procedure for approving legislation.
We should like to think that this will be the basis of the negotiating approach under the Dutch presidency, in terms of content and method.
The document also proposes an extension of qualified majority voting, which we need if we are to develop the Union's capacity for action and prepare it for enlargement.
The letter from Germany and France contains a proposal that this should, in fact, become the norm, from which there would be certain specified exceptions - in other words, the procedure would be reversed.
If we could combine these two concepts, we would achieve the breakthrough on institutional reform that we so urgently need.
I have no time to mention many other issues, and in particular the progress which was made on prioritizing thirdpillar policies in the area of foreign affairs and security.
Let me mention briefly two further points in the time I have left.
We must take care to see that we do not reach a situation in which the role of parliaments is downgraded - and the European Parliament is in the same boat as national parliaments in this respect - nor must we allow the creation of a new third chamber.
Above all, we should like to point out that there can be no talk of the success of the Intergovernmental Conference until the European Parliament has full budgetary powers.
That will be a key point for us when it comes to evaluating the outcome of the Intergovernmental Conference.
