Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe Mr McGowan has presented us with an important and essential report on development policy, which could provide an opportunity for a debate on future strategy and prospects.
I don't think this is an occasion for soap-box oratory.
Let me start by making two points.
In our societies, development policy is a non-starter.
As Mrs Maij-Weggen just said, only four countries are achieving the self-imposed target of 0.7 % of the gross national product.
The last Community budget showed a reduction in real terms, and there have been further reductions in the Member States, too.
Secondly, there is no such thing as a European development policy.
What we have is 15 individual policies, plus an additional Community policy.
That is the real situation.
Recent years have shown no sign of the co-ordination called for in the Maastricht Treaty, and nor does Maastricht II.
Maastricht II is supposed to introduce institutional reviews, as Article 130 tells us.
But what is the actual position?
It is not even on the agenda yet.
Mr Pinheiro, can you arrange for this to be added to the agenda?
Our governments seem to have no interest in it.
And then, when I come to look at the budget: in recent years we've seen environment and development, women and development, drifting towards zero.
NGOs are to get more.
Although we are prepared to take on more personnel at the Commission, the budget situation requires economies.
A few high officials will use up most of the money.
Then we also have an internal structural shift.
The mega-programme has been adopted by the governments without funds being made available, and those funds have been taken away from development policy.
So I can't help wondering what the strategy actually is.
Mrs Maij-Weggen says that the Community is the world's biggest provider of aid.
Yes, the net outflow of capital in many countries is much greater than what they are getting, and we can all see that more people are hungry, more people are poor, more people are dying.
Yes, we do need a non-military foreign policy.
My last request is for Maastricht II to introduce an institutional reform; Mr Pinheiro, we need a strong minister, a strong commissioner for this non-military development policy to supplement the foreign policy in the military and security sectors that we have with the CFSP.
