Madam President, I have just been to Bosnia once again and have noticed a pronounced change there, a change which is certainly encouraging in several respects.
There are signs of hope, and one of these hopeful signs is that Pope John Paul II is expected in Sarajevo next weekend - not for a Catholic ceremony, but as a sign of dialogue between cultures and religions.
I was gratified to note that Professor Topic in Sarajevo, whose task is to prepare the visit, is doing so with his organization Napredak, which means that Croats, Serbs and Muslims are all preparing this occasion together.
At the same time, some quite encouraging new developments are also observable in the Serb-held areas of Bosnia-Herzegovina.
For example, in the Serb-occupied town of Banja Luka Bishop Komarica, who has been here in Parliament, and the Mufti of Banja Luka have begun to cooperate very effectively in petitioning the international community to enforce the rights of their Serbian compatriots.
These are undoubtedly hopeful signs, signs that this community of Bosnia-Herzegovina, united by a common destiny, can survive in spite of the dreadful problems confronting it.
On the other hand there are enormous strains on the unity of the country.
One such strain is the threat by the administration of the so-called Republika Srpska to hinder or prevent its residents who are citizens of BosniaHerzegovina - which we continue to recognize as a State - from undertaking the journey to Sarajevo by levying an exit tax of 70 German marks - payable in marks, which, of course, nobody possesses.
Added to that, naturally enough, is the fear of being registered.
Although that is a permanent state of affairs, it threatens to escalate next weekend, even for those people who are entitled to enter Bosnia-Herzegovina under the laws of that country, because transit rights will be denied them too.
And we want to protest vehemently against that, to prevent this sign of hope from turning into a relapse.
Situation in Cambodia:
