Mr President, mass livestock farming, mass consumption, mass culling - this road to disaster needs to be avoided.
There is no doubt that there have been serious failures of crisis management with regard to BSE: firstly by the British Government, as our group chairman Mr Martens said, and by the Commission in the period from 1990 to 1994.
It is therefore essential for the Commission as an institution to be called to account, on the basis of the joint motion for a resolution tabled by the PPE and PSE Groups.
This does not mention blame, but specifically invokes the Commission's responsibility for implementing the recommendations of the Committee of Inquiry.
Moreover, individual and disciplinary measures must be taken in respect of the officials concerned.
The fact that the President of the Commission himself, Mr Santer, has admitted to mistakes reinforces our belief that this Commission is able and willing to do all it can to avoid a repetition of the errors of the past, and to justify the confidence which our chairman Mr Martens expressed in the Commission on behalf of the 15 delegations in the PPE Group.
The declaration that priority will be given to consumer protection and health policy in the EU is an important signal, not least for the citizens of Austria.
I would particularly highlight the Commission's intention only to have recourse in future to scientists whose independence is guaranteed.
Another welcome reform is the checks introduced between this stage and legislation.
We are pleased to see that the European Parliament, as the representative of our citizens, is gaining increased codecision in matters of health, consumer protection and agriculture, and also that at the Intergovernmental Conference, Article 129 will be amended so that our citizens' health will take priority over all other interests.
It may be that today we have seen a turning-point in the relations between the European Parliament and the Commission.
Perhaps these can now be placed on a new footing, after the salutary shock provided by the BSE crisis.
Like the chairman of the PSE Group, Mrs Green, we too are ready to put our trust in the Commission for the time being, but we shall remain vigilant in the interest of our citizens.
