Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this question concerns the bringing into circulation of so-called vegetative propagation material from grapes.
Unified quality standards were introduced for this, which the Member States have to meet on circulating such material.
The aim has been to increase productivity in the wine industry.
Relevant offices of the Commission are currently preparing a revision of these guidelines, not only in order to simplify them in view of relevant legal and technical developments and to update them, but also to remove existing trade barriers and ensure conformity with the internal market.
The Commission will probably lay the proposal before Council, and hence Parliament, towards the end of this year.
The various plant health regulations referred to by the honourable Member in his question have their origin in the requirements of the guideline itself.
For in this guideline Member States are expressly given the freedom, under certain circumstances, to apply additional requirements for their own products.
They are also permitted to apply certain other requirements according to various circumstances in individual wine-growing regions.
Legal developments and likely problems in applying the regulations were mentioned by experts from Member States in the Standing Committee on Seed and Plant Material.
During this the situation in each individual country was carefully investigated.
As for the participation of representatives of the private sector in meetings of the Standing Committee, the relevant Council decision establishing the Committee only permits representatives of Member States.
Representatives of the private sector may, however, present their points to those consultative meetings of the Commission in which important new developments in legal regulations may be mentioned.
The relevant offices of the Commission have held direct consultations for this revision work with professional associations having relevant knowledge on the subject of propagation material for vines, and specialize in it.
