Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the impending liberalization of the telecommunications market offers the European economy a wealth of possibilities and areas of activity with important repercussions for employment policy.
But, despite the inconspicuous and purely technical impression it gives, it also represents an important social challenge.
In the existing economic and social circumstances, general access to the network -which really means the affordability of the services - is a sine qua non for equality of opportunity and non-discrimination.
So the nature and extent of the liberalization of the market in this sector must always take due account of the consumer's interests.
Today, a certain minimal service has already become an economic and social necessity of life.
Liberalization must ensure that those with special needs - the elderly, the handicapped, people on low incomes and those living in geographically remote areas - receive that minimum service at an acceptable price.
That is the essential thing - a rule of communication, especially for the lower strata of society, the less well-off, and indeed, this also shows that voice telephony is an important instrument for social integration - and, if negligently handled, can become a substantial factor in disintegration.
That is why there has to be a fair social dialogue, in which consumers and consumer protection organizations have a binding say in the decision processes regarding general controls to ensure fair competition and the necessary price transparency, the setting-up of various discount schemes for private and business users, investigations into suppliers holding a dominant position in the market, and also the continuing development of new systems.
This will create much greater transparency, and that is what we need.
This is merely a just complement to liberalization, as I see it, a complement that is necessary in the interests of the market economy and of democracy.
But the key to this particular directive, or so I believe, is that the consumer must benefit to the full from technological advances in voice telephony.
From my angle, the angle of consumer protection, there are five essential points here.
One is that prices must be affordable and fair.
The second is that the services offered must be of a high quality.
The third is transparency of prices and services, the fourth is access to the law and assistance with certain kinds of arbitration procedure, with disputes, and the fifth is the involvement of consumers in technological changes.
But if everything fails to work properly, there is something we must think about even at this stage.
If free competition and suppliers' sense of responsibility fails to result in an appropriate standard, we must give thought even now to minimum standards at European level and to the consequences for suppliers who fail to meet those standards.
If, then, at the end of the day, it proves possible to supplement and enrich the proposed directive in a practical way with Mrs Read's report, then we shall be able to say that we have achieved an advance in terms of consumer policy, and I hope that that is what will happen.
