Mr President, there was and still is a lot of justifiable criticism of the Energy Charter.
Firstly, for reasons of content and then, of course, also for formal reasons.
Parliament can only say yes or no.
In fact we must of course admit that Parliament did not exactly make great efforts to exert any influence on it - which is regrettable and also rather shameful.
But we must also admit that this is the first time we have ever had international legal provisions on the inclusion of environmental costs and the polluter-pays principle, even if they are not yet entirely binding.
Previous speakers have also pointed that out.
It is after all a small step forward, even if unfortunately these environmental aspects are only set out in the Protocol.
I believe it is a political duty, and of course the duty of the Commission, to ensure that we come closer to the noble objectives and higher aims set out in the Charter.
On the other hand, of course, we must say that the conditions we have at present need to be changed, namely the fact that nobody is responsible for pipelines, nobody even repairs them and everyone says, I only get five, ten or 20 per cent out of it, and that unfortunately the revenue does not go to those from whom it is taken but, especially in the case of Eastern Europe, generally lands in the hands of the mafia.
I think our main task now is to concern ourselves a little with these matters and not just put our hand up and say yes tomorrow; for environmental considerations must not just be taken into account in energy policy but ought to become a central aspect of it.
In the same way, energy efficiency needs to be improved and renewable energy sources must be tapped and used through better transfers of resources and framework programmes.
And that is precisely where we as a Community are setting the worst example.
Let me just remind you of SAVE, THERMIE, etc.
I hope the Commission is listening carefully.
At least we are making a start with implementing the noble aims set out in the Energy Charter.
