Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Dutch presidency is reluctant to appear before the House.
There have been numerous delays - and the situation has attracted comment again this afternoon.
Many Members of the House entirely fail to understand and are highly critical of the presidency.
But I understand very well - I too would be afraid to appear before the elected representatives of the people of Europe and present them with the likely results of the current Intergovernmental Conference.
I too would fear that Parliament might recall the promises which were made after Maastricht: promises of creating a political union, of overcoming the democratic deficit in Europe, of establishing a common foreign policy, of finding a balance between economic and political integration and creating the conditions for enlargement.
But I wonder whether the President of the Council might not be more afraid of Parliament than he needs to be.
Looking at the motions which have been tabled, it would seem that the majority in the House is afraid that Parliament might end up cast in the role of Don Quixote in a battle of the giants between Member States, Council and Commission.
In my opinion, there is a much greater danger of the House ending up like Sancho Panza - who was content simply to complain, to hang back eating his lunch, and to stretch himself out under the trees.
And in the face of mass unemployment and the tremendous crisis of democracy and credibility in which the Union finds itself, the citizens of Europe would censure Parliament far more heavily for doing that than for taking sides in this historic argument and fighting to ensure that a historic opportunity is not gambled away - which is precisely what is happening now in the Intergovernmental Conference.
This House is not as powerless as it makes itself out to be.
Should the Commission fail to support us - and for eighteen months it has failed to support us on these issues - then we can send it packing if we summon up the will and the resources to do so.
We can boycott budgets, we can delay our consent for the negotiations on accession, and we can call on the national parliaments and, of course, the public to form an alliance with the European Parliament.
But we have to begin by summoning up the necessary courage and strength.
Whether we are prepared to do so will be the decisive question in the weeks ahead.
