Madam President, the Members who spoke before me have indicated that the situation in Albania has gone completely out of control.
An undemocratic regime, combined with unscrupulous economic exploitation, has reduced the entire population of that country to destitution.
Although it is impossible not to sympathize with these people, and although their sense of despair is more than understandable, any resort to arms must be clearly and roundly condemned.
Civil war would be no solution in this situation.
It would only further exacerbate the crisis.
A way out of this dilemma must be found now.
The escalation of violence has to be halted.
It is good that the first move has been made to resolve this crisis together so that democracy can finally be given a chance in Albania too.
The creation of an all-party coalition and the announcement of democratic elections are first steps along this path.
We very much hope that all parties will now comply with the agreement, but these are all only first steps.
What is more important is that the new Government that is subsequently elected and the new Parliament should also make it their duty to implement democratic and economic reforms.
It is obvious that people in Albania will only be prepared to lay down their arms if they are offered a democratic and prosperous future.
The European Union bears responsibility not only for the development of Albania but also for the development of the entire region.
It is regrettable that in recent years almost every time we in the European Parliament have spoken about developments in the Balkans it has been in connection with crises.
Although we have concluded cooperation agreements with many countries in the region and even association agreements with some of them, and although we are trying, through the PHARE programme, to give active support to the reform processes in those countries, developments there have repeatedly taken us by surprise.
As this debate draws to a close, the request I should therefore like to make to the Commission is that in future we, that is the Council, the Commission and Parliament, discuss how democratic and economic reforms in those countries can be better and more effectively supported and how we can target the PHARE programme more selectively.
I believe we can help the population more effectively in that way than by merely appearing as firefighters whenever there is a crisis.
