Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the PPE Group I would like to give the reasons for the questions we put.
The Novel Food Regulation has created legal certainty for consumers, retailers and manufacturers regarding the licensing, in particular, but also the labelling of novel food products, including genetically modified products.
That was and is a major achievement by all the European institutions.
But an EU regulation becomes directly applicable law in every Member State on the day on which it enters into force - 15 May, in this case.
Every regulation which becomes applicable from a certain date in 15 Member States of the European Union inevitably causes problems of interpretation and implementation in the early stages, especially with such a difficult subject as this.
Even if the implementation and application of a regulation, in particular, were to be handled uniformly in every Member State, we do see difficulties with practical application in a matter as complex as this.
I think those problems relate to three points: how, and especially in what wording, products are to be labelled; which products are covered by the regulation; and, finally, what happens to those maize and soya products that were approved even before this regulation came into force.
There is evident uncertainty here, caused by differences in interpretation, and so we regard it as urgently necessary for agreement to be reached at Community level on a uniform interpretation.
As I see it, these problems are certainly solvable, but the issues must be addressed in an objective discussion with the experts at European level, as a matter of urgency.
I say urgency because foods produced from approved genetically modified soya and maize are already to be found on supermarket shelves, but now, according to the provisions of the regulation on novel foods, they have to be labelled.
This of course makes it especially clear that a review of Directive 220 on labelling is more than overdue.
However, these problems cannot be solved in the manner favoured by certain Members of this House, who create the impression that media impact and the prevention of genetic engineering are more important to them than effective consumer protection.
A good example of what I mean is the questions put by Mrs Breyer and the Greens, because that group is saying that the whole regulation has got to be amended or even replaced.
This view is not only nonsensical but contrary to the wishes of the majority in the European Parliament.
The issue here is not scaremongering but resolving perfectly ordinary difficulties, and we hope our questions will encourage the Commission to do so.
