Madam President, Mr Commissioner, what you have presented today is certainly a position we can very broadly support and accept from the outset, and which represents the situation in Algeria.
I feel, however, that we as a Parliament must be even franker, to try to change the immensely difficult situation in Algeria today.
Each attempted assassination and each terrorist attack is a blow, not only for Algeria, but also for Europe.
For this reason we must make it clear to the Algerian Government that this is not a case of outside influence, or intervention, but of our concern for an area and matters of mutual interest.
I think our proposals from Parliament should be understood in this sense.
We in Parliament condemn the use of force just as unreservedly as do you in the Council and Commission.
Force destroys not only people, but the soul of a people.
Force must not be successful, not even, and most particularly not, in Algeria!
For that reason we emphatically support all measures aimed at limiting or preventing the use of force.
At the same time, however, human rights must be maintained.
We sometimes get the impression that human rights are being regarded as secondary.
To some extent that is understandable in a difficult situation, but here limits are sometimes crossed, and we can in no way accept that.
There are also doubts, let us be quite frank about it, in many media about whether force is being combatted everywhere with the utmost rigour.
The government is accused of not proceeding with the required degree of decisiveness.
We do not mean to cast any aspersions here, and that is why we have included nothing on that in the resolution.
I must make a most heartfelt request to the Council and Commission, however, to find out if these rumours and accusations are indeed relevant, and how force can be more effectively withstood.
People must not be tortured for hours, murdered in their villages, without intervention by the police, army or other security forces.
I should like to draw particular attention to that point.
In the context of what the Commissioner said about the association agreement and the Barcelona process, we emphatically demand that the dialogue in Algeria be continued.
There have been repeated set-backs.
People who declare themselves ready for dialogue, and who renounce the use of force, are still not met with the support and the positive reaction which both they and the situation deserve.
It should also be noted that the dialogue should be carried out with those who renounce force.
Just as in all crisis regions, however, like Ireland or other parts of the world, one must naturally take many steps to convince those who currently support the use of force that it is better to renounce it.
A really effective dialogue can clearly be held only with those who say no to force.
But we must persuade as many political, social and religious movements as possible to renounce the use of force.
For that it is necessary to make contacts within, to give advice to, and above all to encourage the Algerian Government.
I consider it unacceptable that the Algerian Government is being relatively hesitant and reserved.
We want to go ahead with this dialogue, and that is why we seek this dialogue between the European Parliament and the newly-elected Algerian Government.
That cannot be a unilateral offer, but must be a real dialogue that keeps the peace process and the maintenance of human rights in the forefront of the priorities.
To return again to what Commissioner Marín said about negotiations.
We, too, hope that negotiations on the association agreement include Algeria more closely into the whole Barcelona process.
This is how I understand what you have said and should like to offer you my full support on behalf of my group.
