Mr President, Commissioner, we are all painfully aware that Euroscepticism is very prevalent among our population at the present time, and we must take effective action to combat it.
Young people can be our allies in this mission, because they have a great capacity for learning, they are enthusiastic and are hungry for the new experiences that can be theirs when they spend some time in other countries.
Young people are the future of our society, which is why I firmly believe that we should involve them as much as possible in the construction of a united Europe.
The European voluntary service can be a means to that end.
I therefore welcome the idea, but I agree with Mrs Fontaine that the Commission proposal has several defects.
The most important issue, to my mind, is that of the legal framework.
The mobility of young people is impaired by major legal obstacles, which must be eliminated by all Member States cooperating to define a common status for voluntary workers.
Every Member State must take the necessary measures to enable young people to take part in the programme without let or hindrance.
The main measures are the granting of a right of sojourn for the duration of the voluntary service, maintenance of social security entitlements and the exemption from taxation of expenditure allowances.
Clear rules will have to be formulated on these points; those in the proposal are far too generalized.
Moreover, the Member States must be called upon to coordinate the activities of the European voluntary service with those of the civilian service organizations that exist in individual countries.
The decision as to whether these national organizations can be incorporated into the structure of the European voluntary service on the basis of agreements between the two will remain a matter for the national legislatures.
Despite these defects, I am delighted that the voluntary service initiative is finally taking shape.
I believe that this service can make a substantial contribution to increasing the mobility of young Europeans, which is still rather too restricted.
