Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, our group also congratulates Mr Collins on his report.
Surely it must now be possible to make real progress in implementing environmental law.
However, unlike the previous speaker, we believe that the Commission is not only short of staff, but also lacks the political will to enforce environmental legislation.
It often acts for reasons of political opportunism.
Why should not environmental law be enforceable within the Commission itself?
How can the green light be given for trans-European networks, with ever more countryside being concreted over for motorways, even though we know that this will raise CO2 levels?
Why was it possible for Member States such as Germany to introduce a law on accelerated procedures which clearly contravenes the need for environmental impact assessment, and also the wild birds directive?
It is up to the Commission to really take account of the environment and not be guided by political opportunism.
Furthermore, greater use must be made in future of the Article 189 procedure; only then will the Commission have any credibility.
It has also become clear that the Article 171 procedure, which the Commission first implemented against Germany, makes a good deal of sense.
We need fines, because they are effective.
The Member States must not be allowed simply to tinker with environmental law; it really must be properly enforced.
Here we need to give a greater role to non-governmental organizations, by which we mean international NGOs and also natural persons.
The environment belongs to all of us, and because that is so, every one of us should be free to bring actions concerning breaches of existing environmental law.
The environment is vital to the survival of future generations, and that is why it must be possible to bring legal actions.
Only then will we be able to ensure that greater pressure is exerted.
To sum up, the Commission must demonstrate more political will and act with greater rigour and toughness.
It must also ensure that environmental law is enforced, as well as improving the right to bring legal actions, since the environment belongs to us all.
It must be possible to bring proceedings against anyone who fails to implement environmental law.
