Madam President, I should firstly like to say how pleased I am that the House is once again debating the situation in Tibet.
This problem has been discussed often enough, but little has been done about it.
That is no reason to stop discussing it.
Over the last ten years, we have had to listen to a great many speeches about bloody conflicts around the world, but I think we can say without cynicism that a war waged against the soul and culture of a people can ultimately be more devastating than a purely military conflict.
However, that is exactly what China's treatment of Tibet amounts to.
The people of Tibet are largely prevented from practising their religion, whilst their temples are renovated beyond recognition - a tried and tested means of repression - and their cultural artefacts are shipped off to China.
I shall not address the wider issue of torture and human rights violations, as previous speakers have already done so.
When we consider that, according to a report by UNESCO, some 50 % of the world's cultural heritage has been destroyed in the course of this century through ignorance, and very often through communist vandalism - in Cambodia, for example - it is clear that a stop must be put to China's actions in Tibet.
The joint motion for a resolution refers to the cultural and religious autonomy of the Tibetan people.
In this respect, however, and here I agree with Mr Dupuis, I firmly believe that it does not go far enough.
It should also refer to the independence - with the exceptions referred to by Mr Dupuis - and the right to self-determination of the Tibetan people.
We should also not forget that the leader of the Tibetan people, His Holiness the Dalai Lama, has indicated to the Chinese Government his constant willingness to engage in talks, without making any substantial political demands; his overtures have just as constantly been rebuffed by the Chinese authorities, however.
To my mind, Parliament is therefore obliged to adopt a clear and unequivocal stance on this issue, especially since a similar situation is now threatening to engulf the Uigur people of Chinese Turkestan.
That is all the more reason, I believe, why we in Parliament really do have a duty to speak out for the right to self-determination, religious freedom and democracy in Tibet.
