Mr President, the stability pact throws up a whole series of unresolved questions, ranging from the moral aspects of economic policy to institutional considerations.
Given the need for budgetary discipline, we should support the automatic and systematic imposition of penalties in the form of non-interest-bearing deposits, and their subsequent conversion into fines.
Too great a degree of flexibility here would open the way to all kinds of excuses, and that is not what we are seeking.
However, what we must reject entirely is the plan to distribute sums received from a Member State which is in breach of the budgetary rules amongst those which do not have excessive deficits and which participated in the decision to impose the fine.
Such a procedure would almost smack of sharing out the spoils.
Instead of aggravating a country's already difficult situation, we ought to seek ways of helping it to overcome its problems, and that should also be the thinking behind the imposition of a penalty deposit.
If monetary union is to become a reality, lasting stability is absolutely essential.
But sanctions imposed by the Council would have no bite without some means of enforcement - and that would mean at least the possibility of bringing an action before the Court of Justice.
On the other hand, if such measures were to go significantly beyond the coordination of economic policies which is provided for in Article 103, this would require an amendment to the Treaty, with all that such a step involves.
It is hard to envisage achieving a stable monetary union without, at the same time, institutionalizing cooperation and coordination.
Anyone who supports monetary union must also support the creation of the conditions for achieving and maintaining it.
But this will require a new, interventionist element in economic and budgetary policy, an element that will involve amending primary legislation and will therefore, under the terms of Article N, have to be dealt with by the national parliaments.
