Mr President, given that Parliament, through Maastricht, has acquired the right to use a collective vote of censure as a parliamentary weapon, every Member of this supreme representative body within Europe should handle it responsibly.
In the vote on the Medina report, 16 members of the Committee of Inquiry voted against the limpest of motions from the Socialist Group, so that the report which is now before the House was adopted without the planned recommendation for a qualified vote of censure.
The press was full of this, as we know.
Now we are retrieving the situation with some appropriate resolutions, which we shall be voting on tomorrow.
This opposition - on my part too, I would point out - was not ducking the issue and did not reflect a lack of courage, quite the opposite.
The motion in question amounted to an even more toned-down vote of censure, no time for it being set and the date of December 1997 being deleted.
Those who threaten to use a vote of censure - of whatever kind - from the very beginning of an inquiry, and then in the end produce only the limpest forms of words, are damaging not only themselves, but Parliament as a whole, since everyone can see the reason for the lack of enthusiasm which has been mentioned: most of the Commissioners who would have to go would be from the ranks of the social democratic group!
Furthermore, the main point at issue here is surely not to demonstrate the guilt or innocence of the Commission which is now in office.
For us as elected representatives, the point must rather be our duty to restore to European consumers the confidence which they demand and deserve.
In other words, we MEPs would be well advised to join with the Commission in forming a counterbalance to the Council, rather than acting against it, above all in the light of the negotiations currently taking place at the Intergovernmental Conference.
That does not prevent us from expressing our views to one another plainly and frankly, and that is the point at issue today here in the House.
What is to be done?
On the basis of the recommendations in the Medina report and Parliament's resolution, the Commission should now rectify its omissions as quickly as possible and correct the flaws which have been highlighted by the Committee of Inquiry.
The statements by President Santer indicate that the Commission is ready to do so.
However, should this not be carried through within a reasonable period of time, contrary to expectations, in other words by the end of this year, then we should not just raise a warning finger, as was the case with the vote in the Committee of Inquiry, but would really be obliged to hold a vote of censure pursuant to Article 144 of the Treaty.
