Mr President, Commissioner, the report we are considering relates to the Commission's proposal for a code of practice on the implementation of the principle of equal pay for work of equal value for women and men.
It is a good report.
I share the view of many other Honourable Members as to both the report and the code of practice.
We have made no progress at all in recent years with legislation to ensure equal pay for men and women.
The only reference to equality, in the European Union Treaty is Article 119, which in fact is specifically confined to questions of pay.
Women are demonstrably underpaid in all Member States, and this article has brought them nothing more than a gleam of hope.
Women are not asking for preferential treatment - they are simply asking to be paid the same as their male colleagues for doing work of equal value.
Surely that cannot be too much to ask!
Editorials and soap box oratory have achieved nothing, nor have applications to the Court of Justice.
So something must be done, something to provide clear guidance to employees of both sexes - not just empty wrapping, not more theoretical protestations, but a genuine guideline.
Well, the code of practice can fulfil this need precisely and help bring about a genuine improvement in the pay principle.
It will be a practical toolkit for the social partners, focusing on a form of job classification and evaluation that is nondiscriminatory and free of any misinterpretation regarding job content and performance.
From the start, we have been very reliant on good co-operation from the social partners, without whose active participation the code of practice on equal pay is doomed to be yet another failure.
A few points in the report make me uncomfortable, for that reason.
If we start demanding the right to interfere in collective bargaining and the resulting agreements, and if we threaten sanctions if the necessary legislation is not complied with, I can only say that although we have to have control, we should ensure a form of communication based on mutual respect.
There is another point I regard as largely nonsensical.
Up-to-date comparisons of pay levels are needed, but they can only be possible within one sector.
Inter-sectoral comparisons - which is what the report calls for - are totally unrealistic.
You cannot compare a coal miner's job with that of a secretary or a care worker.
It makes no difference whether the employer is the same or not.
The critical point really is the job as such, and indeed the text states as much.
You can only compare a female cook with a male cook, not throw everybody into the same comparison.
I hope we shall find many allies to support this code of practice so that in this case women's hopes are fulfilled by genuine equality, even if only in matters of pay.
