Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the original aim in drawing up this report was to legitimize the European Parliament's condemnation of human rights violations in other parts of the world.
The report has moved a very long way from this initial approach.
It no longer has that purpose.
Indeed, it is difficult to see how this report can legitimize Parliament's criticism of human rights abuses in China or Zaire.
I should like to give you an example.
The report states that the European Parliament 'advocates the drawing-up at Community level of a binding legal instrument laying down minimum guarantees in respect of income, social protection, and the right to medical treatment and housing' .
With respect, Mrs Roth, how does making such a boundless demand legitimize Parliament's condemnation of human rights violations in Zaire?
The problem with this report is the following: it does not deal with specific human rights violations, but lists political demands.
It has a political agenda.
It sheds more light on the rapporteur's political views than on the human rights situation in Europe.
And that is precisely its weakness.
We must change that, if we wish the report to be taken seriously around the world.
There are some examples of this too.
The rapporteur takes a critical view of the demand for so-called 'zero immigration' .
She condemns the fact that no Member State allows unrestricted immigration.
And that is portrayed as a human rights violation!
Mrs Roth, it is quite wrong to call this a human rights abuse.
You are way out of step with the general political consensus.
Furthermore, the rapporteur rails against the application of the concept of a 'safe third country' with regard to the right of asylum.
Clearly, this is a question open to dispute, but to portray it as a human rights violation is, if you will forgive me for saying so, entirely wrong.
I should like to propose a way out.
I propose - and here I share the views of Mr Schulz - that we abandon the distinction between human rights in Europe and human rights in the rest of the world.
If the concept is indivisible, it must apply in Europe in exactly the same way that it applies in China and Zaire.
I therefore propose that we include in the report only human rights violations for which an action can be brought before the Court of Human Rights here in Strasbourg.
I would suggest that we consider entrusting this task to Parliament's Subcommittee on Human Rights.
This dispute, which is inevitable if such a political agenda is put forward, is helping neither the cause of human rights nor Parliament.
