Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, although it is to you that I speak, I am thinking of the presidency that held office at the time when this violation of international law took place and Turkey sent its troops into northern Iraq.
I find it shameful that the Council could not find more forceful language to condemn that breach of international law, to call a spade a spade, instead of contenting itself with pointing out the acts of terrorism that had brought Turkey to act as it did.
I believe that we should be honest as between friends, but above all that we should not be cowardly.
We are, of course, conducting a debate that we should have conducted two months ago.
This was not our fault, but the fault of the Council in its refusal to accept our request for a statement at that time.
As Mr Langen has said, the new Government is now having to listen to charges that should have been laid against the former government.
There is continuity, there must be continuity within a state.
The government bears the responsibility for what the state does.
If the government in Turkey is to change every six months, we cannot always put out of our minds what the previous government said, and look only to the future.
We need confidence-building measures, too.
And this Parliament needs to know that it has a partner with which it can negotiate, a partner on which it can rely.
That is very important.
I too - like Parliament as a whole - have high hopes of this new government, Mr Langen.
But this new government must understand that it has to take these steps to create confidence, that it has to show us that it means to keep its promises.
I very much hope that that will happen, and that Turkey will play, or continue to play, its part in Europe.
I am in favour of Turkey's retaining the option of accession.
But it must keep to everything that other candidates keep to - no more and no less!
That option it must have.
We want to have Turkey with us in Europe.
Sadly, the Turkish Government has constantly moved away from Europe with its human rights violations, its lack of democracy, the Cyprus situation and the unsolved problem of the Kurds.
We expect a peaceful solution to the Kurdish problem.
We expect an end to the occupation of Cyprus, and we expect the human rights situation and democratization to improve.
Then Turkey will have its place with us!
