Mr President, Commissioner, I attended the conference in New York, together with Mrs Dybkjæer, as a representative of the European Parliament, and I am bound to say that even during the conference I felt a sense of depression creeping over me.
Sadly, there were many areas in which not much happened, although the problems - the greenhouse effect, for example - are so pressing.
In that particular area, we are heading straight for disaster.
Even so, there were a few encouraging signs.
For one thing, the European Union really was a driving force in the negotiations, and although opinions may differ among the Member States the fact remains that we must acknowledge that the Commission and the Council presidency together steered the European Union in the right direction.
All the Heads of State and Government made constructive comments.
Secondly, I do not take such a critical view of the role of the USA as was sometimes expressed in the media.
In Denver the USA was the bad guy, as it were.
In New York, Clinton himself admitted that the Americans contribute only 4 % of the world's population but 20 % of its emissions of greenhouse gases, and that that must change.
I regard that in itself as a step forward.
We all know how difficult negotiations are within the USA, but now, for the first time, the President has made a positive move.
I believe there is no alternative to negotiations, including multilateral negotiations -no alternative but resignation, and we can hardly tell our children that that was the reason why we did nothing.
We must take the opportunity that now exists, before Kyoto.
We must step up the pressure on Japan, and I believe that we should also look at the specific situation of the G 77.
One could argue about the exact wording, but the fact of the matter is that the AOSIS countries and a few ACP States, which are making an effort, played no part in the G 77 in New York, while large countries like China, and Saudi-Arabia too, pressurized the G 77 in the wrong direction.
So, in our negotiations with the ACP States too, we should try to draw attention to our common interests and make it clear that something has to be done here.
That, of course, can happen only if we Europeans can convincingly show that we are standing by our obligations in the area of development aid.
All of us must work together - Commission, Council and Parliament - during the discussions of the European Union budget and at other times, too, to ensure that development aid is increased and not further reduced.
We also need to put our own house in order when it comes to protecting the environment and, especially, the climate.
I think the idea of introducing international taxes on aviation fuel is a good one, but we in Europe should also be wondering whether - at least at the European level, for intra-European flights - we may not be subsidizing air travel unnecessarily, if we impose a tax on diesel railroad locomotives but not on aircraft.
Anyone who says that environmental protection, and climate protection in particular, involve reducing the quality of life and economic success, should consider this example: an acquaintance of mine worked in New York for a while, and he told me that in New York people wear sweaters in summer, because the air conditioning is too cold, and turn the fans on in winter because the heating is too hot.
That has nothing to do with quality of life - it's just a waste of energy!
