Mr President, Mr Commissioner, It must feel strange to you, as a convinced supporter of free trade who has always demonstrated that fact, to find yourselves receiving criticism of the sort just expressed by Mr Wolf.
I want to leap immediately to your defence, because it was not merely rhetorical overstatement, but above all did no service to the subject.
The situation is as follows.
Cuba is a democratic country, but the USA is trying, contrary to human rights, to penalize democratic countries such as those united in the European Union, because they are on the wrong road.
We all considered it right to call in the WTO, not in order to make an example in the interests of the WTO's negotiating freedom and free international trade, but in order to enforce our legal rights.
It was difficult to understand how the Commission could attempt - not in secret negotiation, as Mr Wolf supposes - to find a compromise or take a path whose success is more dubious.
If it should not be successful, it will be difficult to start again on the path left for the compromise, that is, to complete a successful WTO panel procedure.
The Americans negotiated differently in the banana dispute.
They followed the matter through to the end, and it is still being discussed today.
I mention that because here we have, something I quite understand, due respect for the internal policies of the USA.
Anyone following the way in which Mr Helms is behaving in the matter of the nomination of ambassadors - bearing in mind that he is himself the one who drove through the Helms-Burton Act - will know how difficult it is for the President of the United States to force what he promised through Congress.
Be that as it may, that is an internal matter for the USA.
When we see that it was mainly the USA and Europe that established the WTO, and that the beneficiaries are those who replaced the GATT, and when we see the concern with which the third world reacts, lest it should suffer whenever the major powers frame agreements, then we should not really be surprised when, as in Singapore, Asian and other countries grow to suspect that the WTO is really only there to serve the rich, who could settle their disagreements in any case.
For this reason I put this request to you on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party: If it appears that your efforts to reach a compromise are unsuccessful, return speedily to the path of virtue and pursue a legal case wherever one may be required.
