Mr President, first I want to congratulate Mrs Rothe on her report.
It is an extremely good and detailed report and it is a step forward.
Let me say at this point, to rescue the reputation of the European Union which has often been criticized during this debate, that in recent years we were able to finance a whole range of projects because we increased the appropriations for renewable energy sources, thanks mainly to the European Parliament's efforts during the budgetary procedure.
This has to be said quite plainly here.
Things are not all quite as bad as people outside sometimes describe them.
If the Member States fulfilled their obligations and made corresponding resources available, we could make considerable progress.
Nevertheless, further Europe-wide initiatives are necessary, and Mrs Rothe put this very well in her report.
I hope we will endorse it.
For instance, I hope that the funding for our major programmes, such as the Mediterranean programme, or the support for Eastern and Central Europe, for the former Soviet Union, for Asia, Africa and Latin America, will be concentrated more on renewable energy sources.
That is easy to say, but far more difficult to put into practice.
For instance, a large number of appropriations, accounting for many millions of ECU, were not fully utilized in the Regional Fund because the complementary resources were not available, which is because the Member States in question did not produce either the public or the private resources.
For the future I expect a simplification of the access and payment and clearing procedures, as also called for in paragraph 8 of Mrs Rothe's report.
It is unfortunately the case that many small and medium-sized undertakings and institutes derive little financial benefit from taking part in EU projects.
The preparations alone, the filling in of forms, the preparation of the projects, are so cost-intensive that in the end the financial profits are very small.
That has to be changed.
Finally, let me say that there are still many surprises awaiting us with renewables, for instance in thin-film or photovoltaic technology, where research is needed and must also receive the necessary encouragement.
Know-how already exists and it must be used and, let me say in conclusion, perhaps it should be used in our own buildings too.
We are building a new Parliament in Brussels and in Strasbourg.
Where is the technology we are developing being applied there?
Here too there is room for improvement.
