Mr President, Commissioner, for the foreseeable future, the European Union's international fisheries agreements will have to balance two conflicting sets of interests: on the one hand, there is the need to secure access for the EU fleet to the marine resources of third-country waters; on the other, there is the vital interest of developing countries in improving the exploitation of their own marine resources in order to supply their growing populations.
The rapporteur, Mr Crampton, has tried to tackle problems and set out demands which are geared to the future, and he deserves particular thanks for doing so, because one thing must be understood quite clearly: a strategy which is based on 'more of the same' will be a non-starter.
Indeed, the problems are already too urgent for that.
The capacity of the world's fishing fleet has doubled over the last 20 years, and the pressure on fisheries resources is steadily increasing.
The competition for fish as a declining source of food has intensified, with the result that it is becoming more and more expensive to exploit marine resources.
Tackling these problems requires transparency, a coherent approach and, above all, honesty.
One of the requirements of a transparent approach to international fisheries agreements is to consider who benefits from such agreements and on the basis of what criteria access to third-country waters is granted.
If the benefits of fisheries agreements are to be assessed in a comprehensible way, we must insist on a cost-benefit analysis - which must also consider the possible consequences of not having such agreements.
In particular, we wish to see the Commission adopting an integrated approach in this area, instead of the present ad hoc way of dealing with things.
Under Article 130v of the EC Treaty, the Community is already legally required to adopt a coherent approach to its various policies and to take account of their impact on developing countries.
Clearly, however, it is also in the Union's own interest to seek to achieve a balance of interests with the developing countries, framing bilateral fisheries agreements in such a way that these also play a part in developing the local economy and improving supplies for the indigenous population.
We expect second-generation agreements to further consolidate the element of cooperation with those countries that wish to have it.
Finally, an honest approach to international fisheries agreements also means admitting - to our own fishermen as much as anyone - that the long-term solution to the problem of overcapacity in the Community fleet does not lie in ever more intensive fishing of third-country waters.
Other mechanisms must be brought into play here, because this is a regional, rather than a sectoral problem.
