Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again it has proved impossible for a delegation from the European Parliament to visit the occupied part of Cyprus under acceptable conditions in order to form their own judgement of the circumstances under which the Greek Cypriots and Maronites are living in the enclaves there.
On behalf of the PSE Group, may I express our indignation as well as our condemnation of this latest affront by the illegal regime in northern Cyprus to the democratically elected representative body of the European people.
We know from numerous reports that the conditions under which the inhabitants of the enclaves live are tantamount to daily violation of human rights and fundamental freedoms.
In the Vienna III agreement of 1975, certain stipulations were made in respect of the enclaves.
In the 1996 reports by the UN Secretary-General and in his most recent report of 7 February of this year, it was again established that the Turkish Cypriot administration was grossly violating that Convention.
It was also established that these populations do not have access to adequate medical care, which is also a violation of the Vienna agreement.
The right to education accorded them in Vienna is also made largely impossible for them to exercise; in Karpasia at the present time, one teacher is teaching all the children of every age group, there are no secondary schools, and boys and girls who attend school in the free part of Cyprus are not allowed to return home once they reach the ages of 16 and 18 respectively.
That is truly a flagrant breach of the provision in Vienna III on freedom of movement and the reuniting of families.
We emphatically demand that a delegation from the European Parliament, particularly under the aegis of the Subcommittee on Human Rights, be given the opportunity to form its own judgement on the spot and to produce a report.
We call on all bodies of the European Union and of the United Nations to play their part in ensuring that conditions for people in the enclaves are improved, but our overriding concern is that every possible step be taken to ensure that human rights are guaranteed throughout Cyprus, in other words that the occupation is ended and the island reunited.
