Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
First of all I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Menrad, very warmly.
He has brought his wide experience, his deep knowledge, his perspicacity and attention to detail to this report.
I should also like to thank the Commission for their preliminary work, even if the communication on worker information and consultation is not exactly a success story, but that is not the Commission's fault.
Apart from the various directives on mass redundancy, the transfer of companies and the European works council which were individual successes, all other proposals have ground to a halt in the Council.
That is particularly true of the co-determination model.
The Council has not exactly excelled itself by its eagerness to take decisions, and it is time that that was made public and that the people of Europe learn exactly where matters have become stuck: not in the European Parliament, not in the Commission but in the Council.
The Commission's four principles for solving this problem sound good: to wit, simplification, coherence, pragmatic and planned progress and general application.
But as to whether the three solutions proposed will be successful - keeping the status quo, global approach, proposals on the statute of the European company, European association or European mutual society - I am doubtful, Commissioner.
I am also afraid that we shall need some more time to find the solution to this problem, to get in all the opinions which have been requested and to see the Commission's definitive document on the table before us.
The experts' hearing on this subject in the Social Affairs Committee gave us a taste of the difficulties ahead in the search for a solution to the problem of informing and consulting employees.
The Commission's group of experts, as I have unfortunately had occasion to say to you, Commissioner, is composed of theoreticians and too few practitioners.
I also think the deadlines set for this expert group on such a complex subject are too tight.
Here I agree with Mr Menrad.
I fully endorse the broad conclusions which the rapporteur has already reiterated.
I would just like to draw attention to a sentence where he writes: variant 3(a) would be most acceptable in combination with option 2.
But what we must avoid is that economic opportunities of participation be replaced by simple information and consultation rights as in the EWC directive or by an as yet inexistent community instrument to regulate information and consultation at the national level.
