Mr President, Mr newly elected President, many true words have already been spoken.
I will be brief as a favour to these strongmen who are breathing down my neck.
On behalf of my group I warmly congratulate you on your election!
There is one thing I do hope you will achieve, namely to give this Parliament a profile of its own at the time of the intergovernmental conference, a profile that is clearly and distinctly dissociated from government interests.
We wish you the strength to achieve this.
We will support you in standing up firmly for our interests, the interests of this democratically elected body, against the renationalization of politics, against the Council's attempt to take over more powers and against the clandestine way the Council likes to operate even here in the European Union.
Secondly, Mr President, I hope that you really will push ahead with the internal reforms that are so bitterly necessary in our House!
We know that is not a very easy task, but these reforms are necessary!
They have to do with our credibility and with the transparency of our proceedings.
So let us be bold and take the offensive!
We must not hide!
We have enough time, another two and a half years.
Let us start right now!
Thirdly, as some colleagues have mentioned, I too hope that you respect and value the principle of democracy within this House, that you respect the different political groups in this House and give them the chance to express their different views, despite the occasional attempts by the two bigshots to dismiss the views of other smaller but nonetheless important political groups.
Fourthly, and here I am looking in a rather different direction, I want to thank Mrs Lalumière warmly for standing as a candidate, for mustering the courage to do so.
For us and for me that was a sign of democracy in our ranks!
I am convinced that your very good results reflected the dissatisfaction in this House with the procedure that was chosen, namely for the big blocs to negotiate prior to the election of the President and to regard the smaller groups as basically supernumerary.
That is no kind of democracy!
Democracy in this House must also mean that women can hold this office!
(Applause) Democracy in this House must mean that Members from all the Member States of the European Union have the chance to hold this office, and democracy in this House must also mean that Members from different political groups can hold this office.
Once again, let me thank Mrs Lalumière for pointing the way!
I am addressing you again now, Mr President.
I promise you my support.
I promise you many quarrels, but also much cooperation; for however much we quarrel or differ, our common aim will always be to do our utmost to combat every form of racism, anti-semitism and xenophobia and achieve more democracy in the European Union.
