Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
We quite rightly recognise that the report before us on a common forestry strategy had a difficult struggle to see the light of day.
And why was that so?
Allow me to try to offer a constructive explanation.
For many countries forestry represents a vital economic and cultural foundation.
The forestry sector is also undoubtedly one with a future.
Forests and wooded areas cover 41.5 % of the surface area of the European Union, divided over more than 10 million owners, and 2.8 million people are either directly or indirectly dependent on the forestry sector.
And so it is easy to understand why forests arouse so much passion in the debate.
The result is here for all to see.
That is why I would like to express my warmest thanks to all who have cooperated in producing this acceptable compromise.
I think that this is expressed in the unanimous decision in the Committee on Agriculture.
Let me draw attention to another positive aspect.
Parliament took the initiative in this case.
It is only through this kind of undertaking, I think, that we shall strengthen the role of the European Parliament in the early stages of the debate.
We as Members of this House should ever bear that in mind.
Some points in this report merit particular attention in my view, particular from the Austrian angle, which is of course very close to my own.
Austria has 3.87 million hectares of wooded area of which 86 % is managed.
Some 250, 000 persons depend either directly or indirectly on the forestry sector or work in it.
The main roles of forests is defined as their economic utilisation and their value in environmental and leisure terms.
I think it important that these roles are seen as a whole.
I think it would be a mistake to equate economic utilisation with exploiting natural resources.
Only planned and particularly sustainable management can guarantee the ecological balance of forests in the long term.
And to ensure this economic balance in the forests we must have responsible hunting.
Forest management is of prime importance for mountain areas in particular, which are well known to suffer from neglect in other agriculture management.
Wood has become a basic element as a raw material, a work material and also as a source of energy.
An increase in the use of biomass, as we hope for, will certainly lead to a greater demand for wood.
There is no need for me to dwell on the many other varied uses of wood.
But one thing is clear: wood, as a renewable raw material, is a product which we must value more.
The question immediately arises of expanding forestry resources.
And here we must make a clear distinction between those areas where afforestation is sensible or necessary and those where it should only be considered as a last resort to manage rural areas.
It goes without saying that we should reforest in order to prevent erosion or protect woods.
But caution is needed in areas where natural landscapes would be altered.
Our guiding principle should continue to be, not afforestation, but the preservation of wooded areas.
We all know that throughout the EU, with the exception of Greece, forest expansion is greater than depletion.
I think that the report takes proper account of fire protection, use of pesticides and the biological resources of the forests.
Ladies and gentlemen, I hope that you will vote in favour of this compromise for a common forestry strategy in the EU.
