Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, the Dutch have sometimes been criticized in recent weeks for a lack of ambition in planning their presidency.
It could also be said, however, that their agenda is very challenging.
As Mr van den Broek has pointed out, pursuing simultaneously the aims of deepening and broadening the Union certainly requires a great deal of thought and effort.
I should like to know, Mr President-in-Office, if you are clear about the preconditions for enlargement.
Some of these have already been referred to: I am thinking of the institutional preconditions.
As someone who comes from a small country, I support you in your efforts to ensure that in future, even in an enlarged Union, the small countries should have a sufficiently strong representation.
With regard to regional aid, what ideas will the Netherlands feed into this debate, and will they shape regional aid in such a way that it is still workable in an enlarged Union?
On assistance for agriculture, are you prepared to support a shift away from a policy of direct subsidies towards one of aid for rural areas, taking particular account of social factors?
An area which is rarely mentioned, but where I would expect the necessary support from the Netherlands in particular, is environmental policy and the modernizing of nuclear power stations in the eastern half of Europe.
I fully support your efforts to find a real solution here, but I believe that this will depend on many elements being put in place.
Secondly, I would mention briefly something which is very important in the context of disarmament and war.
It is to be hoped that, with the support of the Dutch presidency, we shall achieve something which lies within reach: a permanent ban on production, trade in and laying of anti-personnel mines, as well as the destruction of all antipersonnel mines which now exist.
I would end by asking that, in respect of this important activity - currently being undertaken in the context of the United Nations, but where Europe must now show its true colours - the European Union should wage a successful campaign for the banning of anti-personnel mines, and I hope that you will be able to achieve this before the end of your presidency.
