Mr President, the rapporteur has correctly drawn attention to the fact that the commercial sector has been neglected, and that one must not underestimate the importance of this sector, either economically or from the point of view of jobs.
The figures he mentioned, 4.5 million trading businesses with 22 million jobs, producing an average of 13 % creation of wealth, are impressive and give us pause for thought.
After all, the employment report of the European Commission last year established that employment was stagnant in this sector as well .
For this reason developments amongst small and medium-sized trading businesses must be viewed with concern, as more and more of them give way to large businesses and chains.
After all we know that it is the small and medium businesses which make for employment, and that is valid not just for the industrial production sector, but also for the commercial sector.
So we must continue to observe the commercial situation and consider what strategies need to be developed in this area.
The commercial sector is after all of central importance for the internal market and for the external relations of the European Union.
I think the Green Paper does not go into sufficient detail on the differences in the commercial sector.
In this context please permit me to make a comment: after such a long time and with so much experience it would have been appropriate to produce not only a Green Paper, but a White Paper at the same time.
The matter does not just consist of facts, which are well depicted in the Green Paper on Commerce, but the actual requirements for trade at European level.
As well as the modernization of retail trade and the problems in the electronic trade, which are also well represented in the rapporteur's report, the point here is simply one of future guidance for this sector.
Thus, I should have wished for the Green Paper to have given much more thought to possible action, instead of limiting itself largely to analysis.
In the latter area many aspects received too little attention.
Particularly within the crisis of confidence which we can see in almost all those involved with the internal market economy at the moment, commerce assumes a special importance, because the internal market is an important element for growth and employment.
Structural change, changes because of the information society, new technologies as a whole, but also the loss of competition and the reduction in area supply coverage arising from the concentration process, particularly in the retail trade, have altered commerce in the European Union.
These changes demand a response.
We have to know what we actually want to change in these areas.
The rapid growth of trading centres on greenfield sites, mostly planned by large chains, is certainly not just to be viewed as a positive development in the regulation of supply, but can also be criticised, because, as we have said, it closes many small businesses.
They just die off.
And not only in urban areas, but mainly in rural ones as well.
The Committee on Regional Policy is quite right in commenting on this problem, which occurs particularly in underprivileged regions.
As far as this goes, new answers must be found to the challenges which have arisen from moves of production, the internationalization of production, urban and rural developments, and also from traffic and environmental protection.
The increase in market share by the leading commercial firms has exacerbated this tendency.
The internal economy rightly follows the aim of market integration on the one hand.
The new action plan for the single market emphasizes this.
But further than that, market distortion must be avoided and competition encouraged.
Commerce plays an increasingly major role in the connection between production and sales.
The increase and transparency of competition sought by internal trade, however, can be turned into its opposite by the increase in multinationals and their fusion effect.
That cannot be in the interests of the internal market and its growth.
Nowadays we rightly ascribe other tasks to commerce.
That applies particularly to its ecological and social dimensions and the dimension of consumer protection.
For reasons of competitiveness the obligation for identity marks must be give Europe-wide legislative regulation.
There is no room here for subsidiarity.
An improvement in the ecological dimension is essential.
The same applies to the social dimension, especially concerning the precarious job situation, which particularly affects women.
Let me comment here on trade and its importance for the future of the European Union.
We know that the Euro will shortly be introduced.
In this respect trade will achieve exactly the same great importance - as the rapporteur said - as the financial services sector.
Its tasks in this area are huge, because it has direct contact with the customer, and because utterly practical questions must be answered here.
We must not leave commerce to bear the costs alone.
On the other hand, it will be important for consumer protection reasons to place on commerce certain price marking obligations concerning double pricing, but for economic reasons these must be so designed that commerce is able to manage the demands made on it.
I should ask the Commission in any case to integrate the commercial sector as soon and as comprehensively as possible into its internal market action plan, as well as into its programme and concept for development of small and medium-sized businesses, and to support it by means of special initiatives.
