Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to concentrate on three parts of Mrs Boogerd-Quaak's report.
I believe that the move to an information society signifies a radical change in our society.
In my view, the information society is based on two pillars, technological development on the one hand and social and societal development on the other.
Until now technological development has stood in the forefront, and it does indeed remain crucial to European industry.
This area is marked by rapid technological change.
Buzzwords such as broad-band networks, ISDN, Internet, Intranet, telematics in communications, etc., are commonplace now.
The Commission's many efforts in this field are laudable.
The rapporteur, Mrs Boogerd-Quaak, is supported in her call for the various activities to be integrated.
We need more transparency in this area.
The Commission must try harder to integrate the many individual information systems and regulations in a coherent and transparent whole.
The second pillar of the information society is society and its societal aspects.
Initially, not enough attention was paid to these aspects, but they are increasingly being given their due place.
So I warmly welcome the fact that the Commission has made this clear in its green paper on 'Living and Working in the Information Society: People First' .
Here the key words are: lifelong learning, knowledge as the central qualification, etc., but also fear of technology, the disintegration of society into those who can handle the new media and technologies and another those who have no technical or psychological access to it.
The rapporteur is right to recognize a deficit in relation to social and societal aspects.
I can only share her view.
We do not want an information society that is concerned only with how the few can boost their profits.
The European concept of an information society must carry the citizens with it along the road to the future.
Social change must also open up opportunities for the individual on a broad front.
By that I mean giving the individual a greater say, more access to information, more chances of education and more opportunities for low-cost communication.
And looking to the future, the EU must prepare itself for the next round of enlargement even at this stage.
It is most important to involve the applicants for accession in the regulatory process if we want to have a homogeneous market in Europe.
Once again we must also stress the importance of a European regulatory authority in the telecommunications field.
I think that is the only way to ensure competition in this area and to reduce disputes between European operators and governments.
Seven amendments have been tabled to the report as such, which our group supports except for Nos 3 and 4.
They make it clear that the development of an information society must not call workers' rights in question.
We reject any idea of a protection-free zone.
We could accept Amendment No 2 if the words 'public service' were replaced by 'universal service' .
But this is probably just a question of terminology.
