Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the rapporteur on his report and thanking him for his efforts in seeking out - and finding - compromise proposals.
As a Belgian, I know the value of compromise, Mr Jarzembowski, but I know too that, on the whole, the only advantage of compromises is that they are a way of reaching a solution where there is a lack of agreement between most of those involved.
Bearing that in mind - and I am not the first to make the point - I am sure we would all recommend that certain elements of the report should be seen as effective compromise solutions, but compromises nonetheless.
In terms of the efforts to promote an environmentally friendly and safe transport policy, no one would claim that road transport provides the best example.
However, it has been by far the most successful form of transport in adapting to modern market requirements.
In my opinion, and that of many of my colleagues, imposing charges on road transport will not help to revive other forms of transport, such as rail or water.
Nor should we forget that the imposition of charges, in a sector which still has many small operators, for example, may threaten the livelihood of those operators.
That is only too clear, because demand is rising and the number of companies is declining, while the large operators are expanding.
If charges for road use are unavoidable, then they must take greater account of road damage and emissions.
As I see it, the classification system which is proposed in the report seeks to do precisely that.
We are also agreed on the need to protect sensitive areas.
However, just like the question of calculating external costs, this is another case where we need more detailed investigation by the Commission to enable us to make practical and logical proposals.
In my opinion, however, the fact that the Brenner motorway is specifically mentioned at this stage requires no special analysis or further argument.
As we see it, retaining minimum rates is part of the idea that there is a need for minimum criteria in the field of taxation too, if tax is not to become a factor which distorts the market.
However, the proposal before us does not yet offer any guarantee that the suggested charges will have the same impact in all the Member States.
Finally, I should like to welcome the rapporteur's proposal for reviewing the minimum rates by the year 2001.
Technological development and, I would hope, developments in other areas of transport will provide a sufficient argument for doing so.
