Mr President, the compromise text now before the House constitutes a regulation on 'nonlabelling' and deceives consumers!
It will not ensure the comprehensive labelling of genetically modified products and is misleading.
Consumers will still be groping in the dark.
Milk derived from cows which have been treated with genetically modified growth hormones will not be labelled, nor will soya oil made from genetically modified soya beans.
To talk of comprehensive labelling here is quite simply fraudulent.
The 'novel foods' regulation is based on this dubious compromise text.
With regard to more than 80 % of genetically modified foods, it is a regulation designed to maintain secrecy.
The majority of genetically modified foods will be foisted on consumers through the back door.
This is tantamount to force-feeding.
There is not a single phrase in the regulation about the content of the labelling.
Consumers have a right to clear and unequivocal labelling.
However, the content of the labelling will largely be left up to the manufacturers, and they will use vague and euphemistic terms such as 'produced using modern biotechnological techniques' , or 'nutritionally optimized' ; indeed, I have even heard some industry representatives say that the products should be labelled 'produced using environmentally-friendly techniques' .
This makes a mockery of consumer protection and of consumers' wish to have clear and comprehensive labelling!
One thing is clear, therefore: this compromise text will create confusion amongst consumers and give the genetic technology industry a free hand.
Nor does it provide for a responsible authorization procedure.
For the majority of genetically modified products, simply registering with the Commission will be enough, and the compromise text guarantees absolutely no consumer protection.
Where are the health inspection criteria?
There are absolutely none!
To talk of consumer protection here is pure deceit!
The risks for people and the environment are predetermined.
Genetically modified foods will remain a game of Russian roulette for people suffering from allergies.
There is no provision for a public register or comprehensive liability.
This will hardly help to inspire consumer confidence either.
This compromise text represents a blow to consumer protection and is as full of holes as a Swiss cheese.
The statement that a bad regulation is better than none at all represents a show of political incompetence and is wrong.
This regulation will prevent the adoption of extensive labelling rules in the Member States.
I would recommend to the rapporteur that she look at her contributions to the debates at first and second readings.
This compromise text constitutes a betrayal of consumer protection!
It is a lousy, rotten piece of legislation that will permanently shake our citizens' confidence in the European Union!
I would strongly urge the House to reject this misleading regulation, which is designed to maintain secrecy!
