Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate on the PCAs with these four countries, on which we have to decide, is one of crucial importance.
That applies both economically and politically, because this will be an extremely important region in the future.
It contains major reserves of natural resources, especially oil, which are probably far greater than is currently estimated.
Someone gaining the friendship of this region will always be better off than someone losing it.
Secondly, of course, the question of Islam is a particular issue as regards two of these countries.
There are two Christian and two Islamic states in the region.
The two Islamic states are mainly inhabited by Turkish peoples who have close links with the Turks.
I therefore have to say quite clearly, once again, that our policy towards Turkey is breathtakingly short-sighted.
We need this country; we need it vitally, because it represents the alternative to certain other powers in the region which are extremely dangerous.
The Turks are clearly well aware of this.
I have been to Turkey several times recently, and I know just how many people from these two Islamic states are currently living in that country, where they are receiving training.
I would almost go so far as to say that there are two countries which give us a good example of how to provide development aid: Turkey and China.
Turkey, because it delivers its development aid primarily to the people - in other words, it is finally restoring to the peoples of these countries the structures of which they were deprived during the period of Russian rule.
And China, because it applies its development aid at grass roots level, especially in Africa, rather than promoting large-scale projects - like some other donor countries - which often do not have a particularly beneficial effect on the regions concerned.
We must therefore also think of these two states in political terms.
And we must cooperate with Turkey in this region, because that is in Europe's long-term interest.
As far as the two Christian states - Georgia and Armenia - are concerned, I should firstly like to say that it is certainly right that we should develop relations with and assist Georgia, but this should not mean that we put our trust in Russia's Gauleiter in Georgia, Mr Shevardnadze.
This man was once used to counter Georgia's freely elected president, Mr Gamsakhurdia, who was subsequently murdered.
I do take some interest in Georgia, I belong to the bureau of the group for human rights in Georgia, and I can assure the House that some extremely serious human rights violations are being committed there.
That must be constantly emphasized.
We are somewhat naive about human rights questions.
We see violations in some places, but not others.
And we should definitely see them in Georgia.
With regard to Armenia, I know that many people criticize President Ter-Petrossian.
Nevertheless, we should not forget what he has done for Armenia, how he has built the country up.
It is therefore also important for us to maintain good relations with Armenia, and especially to use our influence finally to bring about a settlement between Armenia and Azerbaijan, which takes account of the legitimate rights of both states and makes it possible to ensure the restoration of order in a region where we have interests.
