Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the break-up of the Soviet Union, the early years of the newly independent Transcaucasian republics were marked by wars, the persistence of the communist old guard and control by the Kremlin.
Only now are Georgia, Armenia and Azerbaijan gradually managing to find their feet economically and politically.
However, lasting development will only be possible when the ethnic conflicts that are essentially a legacy of the Soviet era are resolved.
At least there is no longer fighting between Armenia and Azerbaijan - the guns have fallen silent.
It is undoubtedly the case that Moscow originally stirred up this conflict so that it could appear later as a peacemaker and gain influence in the region.
The plan worked: today, Russia is again the leading power in Transcaucasia, Turkey has had to swiftly abandon its ambitions in the area, and Armenia is in any case more dependent on Russian support than its fellow Transcaucasian republics.
As we know, normal relations between Armenia and Turkey do not exist.
Turkey is supporting the linguistically and ethnically related Azeris in the war over Nagorno-Karabakh, and has closed its border crossings with Armenia.
And for the time being, they remain closed.
The conflict over this enclave is undoubtedly Armenia's most serious domestic, international and financial problem.
In terms of regional politics, it is part of the international poker game for the oil resources in the Caspian Sea.
On the plus side, however, one should mention that Armenia has an ethnically very homogeneous population of 3.7 million inhabitants, who can work together to develop the country.
In any event, Armenia is more ethnically homogeneous than any of its neighbours in the region.
Although it is geographically part of the Near East, the people of Armenia - and of Georgia, incidentally - feel themselves to be European at heart.
The region's religious connection with the East is also alien to the Armenians: Christianity is the dominant religion in the country, in the form of either the Armenian or the Orthodox Church.
Like Belarus, Armenia used to play a special, technically-oriented role in the former Soviet Union.
This applies to the chemical and textile-processing industries in particular, and that is undoubtedly also a point which must be taken into account in our cooperation with this country.
The Partnership and Cooperation Agreement with Armenia will serve to underpin the existing close cooperation with the European institutions.
One objective of the agreement is the progressive integration of Armenia into the open international system.
This applies to both the political and the economic sectors.
Through this agreement, the European Union will help Armenia to consolidate its sovereignty, thereby contributing to the stability of the region.
