Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cohn-Bendit has described this debate as resembling a comic opera.
Well, comic operas are often rather slight but entertaining.
By comparison, Mr CohnBendit's remarks were, at any rate, not entertaining.
I feel that we are conducting a ghost debate, not just because of the echoing emptiness of Parliament but mainly because Article K9 has long since become obsolete.
It plays the same part in the Maastricht Treaty as the appendix does in the human body - it may once have been significant, but it has long since been overtaken by evolution.
So what we have here is a ghost debate.
Article K9 died of its own inadequacy.
It has occasionally been described as a bridge to the first pillar, but this bridge was mined from the start.
Partly because it required a unanimous vote in the Council - and you know how hard that is to achieve in contentious matters - and partly, too, because the agreements in question had to be ratified in accordance with the various constitutional provisions of the nation states, a process that can take forever.
K9 has demonstrated its total inadequacy and is now the subject of discussions in the negotiations of the Intergovernmental Conference.
But even if nothing really new arises at the Intergovernmental Conference regarding the transfer of responsibilities from the third pillar to the first, even then we cannot invoke Article K9, because it has proved unwieldy.
Something else has become very clear, which is that we still have here an unresolved conflict between Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The point is that the third pillar includes Article K6, which grants Parliament the right to be informed, and indeed regularly informed, and to be consulted on the principal aspects of the activities - to quote the somewhat laboured wording of the Treaty.
As a general rule, the Council has failed to apply these provisions and has circumvented them.
If the Treaty is essentially maintained in this form after the Intergovernmental Conference, there will be no way of avoiding either a severe conflict with the Council or an interinstitutional agreement which clearly regulates when Parliament is to be informed on matters relating to the third pillar and, above all, when we are to be consulted.
The fact of the matter is that this Parliament has never been properly consulted at all.
Consultation means that when the Council wants to adopt a decision, it submits it to us before adopting it; it means that when it has a draft which is ready for adoption it offers Parliament the opportunity to comment on it; it means that the Council considers what Parliament has to say and accepts its reasons.
Naturally, the Council is not bound by what Parliament wants, but it is required to give careful consideration to Parliament's view.
That has never happened yet, and in every important agreement of recent times the principle has been systematically and criminally disregarded.
That is where the conflict lies - the conflict with which we in this House have to concern ourselves, and which we shall have to tackle as soon as the Intergovernmental Conference is at an end.
The other bone of contention is the procedure.
There is an astonishing degree of unanimity in this House in support of the view that at least parts of the third pillar require communitization, such as the universally mentioned areas of asylum, immigration, visas and external border controls.
I am amazed to hear it.
Community law on asylum would mean a uniform law on asylum throughout Europe, from Finland through Germany and France to Portugal and Spain.
May I ask what form such an asylum law would take?
It amazes me to hear Mr Cohn-Bendit declaring in favour of a common law on asylum.
I have never heard any demand from the Greens on asylum law which would have even the faintest prospect of becoming the basis of a common law on asylum, to be valid in the United Kingdom as well as in Sweden and Greece.
Because I am absolutely convinced, for example, that other European partners would not unconditionally accept the German yardstick as a model.
Among other things, that would require us Germans, too, to review our position on asylum with a view to harmonizing it with other countries' laws, rather than just adhering to our own standards.
These are all examples of the implications of demanding a common law on asylum, and I doubt if it would be any easier to find common ground in other areas, either.
So, in my opinion, it comes down to two issues.
First, we need to agree on procedures which will be acceptable to all and in which the role of Parliament is at least described in the same way as it is already set out in the Maastricht Treaty.
Secondly, we should then turn to the question of substantive law and look for common ground, and the only way will be for there to be give and take on all sides.
That applies to the Germans just as much as it does to the British, French and all the others.
