Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too congratulate Mrs Morgan on her most important report.
After so many statements of principle and given that even the Commission sometimes seems to feel a certain multimedia euphoria, let me make a few comments on three practical questions in this area.
To what extent are the Commission's multimedia activities actually integrated in the individual Member States' educational policies?
Is there a coordinated, overall plan?
I very much doubt it.
The Commission says that all the schools in Europe should be networked.
But at present less than 5 % of European schools have access to the Internet or other networks.
So how can there be equal access to new media and therefore to new employment opportunities in an increasingly mobile Europe?
Limited-time subsidies from Telecom or through the Commission's pilot projects for schools are all very well and good, and I welcome them.
But of what use are they to committed teachers and trainers if the follow-up financing of projects is not secure?
We must promote good, cross-frontier projects and additional modules in vocational training, in order to make foreign-language teaching more lively and effective.
They are all pending.
Another question that has not really been clarified - and here I am turning to the Member States - is how rapid and how comprehensive the teacher training and further training is in this area.
Let me point to one aspect: here it is also a question of the educational and social opportunities of schools to have a positive guiding and stimulating effect on young people in terms of their private computer consumption.
I need hardly mention that the halt in the recruitment of young teachers, who are after all computer literate and trained now, is having devastating effects.
Let me end by turning to the Commission.
Mr Bangemann, I would like to point out that unlike Mrs Heinisch I think the programme descriptions and application procedures for the European Union's multimedia programmes are too remote from the people and lack transparency.
There is too much red-tape involved in the application procedures.
The procedure for the multimedia joint call last December is very confusing because it docks onto various programmes, as practical experience shows.
Given the variety of management committees each of which only takes partial decisions for a particular project, it is almost impossible for new applicants to participate flawlessly.
So I really would ask you to give this serious consideration and to create a programme that is transparent and also usable by newcomers.
