Mr President, as a group we shall support this report, although we have certain qualms about doing so.
Incidentally, I should like to say that the rapporteur has my admiration for the work that he has done.
He has my admiration not least because he was involved in a conciliation procedure two years ago, the outcome of which was ECU 700 million in a reserve - in other words 5 %.
Without wishing to belittle Parliament's powers of codecision - and nothing could be further from my aim - I have to say that this begs the question of whether the entire procedure is justified by such an outcome.
One thing really amazes me in all this.
We wish to invest in the future - today we had workers from Renault here, and we have problems with the miners in Germany - but what are we doing?
In the very areas that have a bearing on the future - research, development and possibilities for industrial conversion - we are trying to save money!
I would not mind if the money saved at European level was in fact being spent effectively on research at national level.
But there, I have to say, I have my doubts!
In any event, I am convinced that for the future of our research policy, we must find a form of financing which does not entail debating budgetary changes in the middle of the framework programme.
I was involved in the process four years ago: it was not satisfactory then, and it is not satisfactory now.
Secondly, I have some reservations concerning the Commission's role in all this, and I have already spoken about these.
Just how seriously are we to take proposals that begin by providing for task forces with ECU 700 m of funding - for which a great deal of pressure was exerted - if those proposals can subsequently be changed at the stroke of a pen?
What happened to the package when it emerged that we were to receive not ECU 700 m, but only ECU 100 m?
Looking now at the list and the allocation of resources, I honestly have to ask what difference two million here or there will make.
What has become of our package?
Having a package also implies finding the courage to state what we do not want - and we did not manage to do that.
For myself and my group, all this is a learning process.
I am convinced that for the fifth framework programme, we need a different type of cooperation.
Perhaps we also need different structures, and in any event I shall do my best to ensure that we cooperate positively.
It is with some degree of resignation that I will now conclude and offer the rapporteur my full support.
However, this is not the way to prepare for the future.
