Mr President, Commissioner, environmental agreements in the European Community are one thing and environmental agreements at national level are another.
In the Netherlands there have been more than one hundred legally binding national agreements, dating back over many years.
They operate well in a small, compact country.
In my own country, with its 80 agreements, things are rather more difficult because it is a very different story in terms of size.
I believe such agreements need to be underpinned by statutory provisions which must come from a European level.
The Commission has now tackled this subject.
I am very glad that the Commission has been so bold and believes that it could, according to Brussels, help to co-ordinate these voluntary agreements.
All I know is that there are over 100 directives that my own country has not even implemented.
So how do you expect to be able to control voluntary agreements from Brussels?
That was one question I was very anxious to ask you.
Commissioner, I would also be interested to know how you can argue in favour of contractual agreements rather than voluntary commitments although you know full well that you cannot be a party to this pact at all.
As far as I know, the Commission has no right to conclude voluntary agreements.
I believe the initiative for this kind of procedure lies elsewhere.
The Commission generally has the utmost difficulty in getting European directives moving.
Very few of them have been set on their way in the last two years, and now you think that by means of large-scale deregulation back to the national governments you can advance the cause of environmental policy through voluntary agreements.
I don't think so!
A voluntary instrument is all very well so long as it is not required to replace framework directives that have not been passed.
That must not happen.
I think it is important that the European Commission should produce much more and much clearer framework legislation for voluntary agreements.
That must be made clearer in this report.
Then I can imagine that voluntary agreements at European level might make sense.
National ones, of course, are very welcome!
