Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I too support the Commission's proposal for a regulation supplementing the existing regulation, and also most of the amendments tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the rapporteur.
Above all because of the loss of consumer confidence brought about by the BSE crisis, by the debate on the conditions in livestock farming and by overproduction, the meat industry has run into serious difficulties.
The main feature of the rapid deterioration of the market has been a sharp decline in consumption.
Since consumers are displaying a growing interest in organic products - in terms of both quality and range of products - livestock production should be better geared to levels of consumption.
This requires a fundamental reform of quality control systems and a new policy on consumer protection.
In the long term, I believe that the consumer demand for food produced by environmentally compatible methods is opening up considerable opportunities for the agricultural sector, particularly in the less-favoured regions of southern Europe.
However, I am afraid it is an illusion to think that the whole of European farming can become organic.
The total market for organic products is limited at present, and the expansion of such production methods should be encouraged through publicly funded programmes, rewarding farmers for precisely defined environmental performance.
The change to organic farming must be a free decision on the part of farmers and, to be successful, it must take place gradually.
Without a smooth and progressive transition, there is a danger that the move will not be positively received and that farmers will become disillusioned.
Expectations are already very high, and that is not an entirely positive thing.
It is also necessary and important for integrated agriculture to be defined, with a view to stimulating this sector.
The Commissioner deserves thanks for his sensitivity in this context.
In his former posts in his native country of Austria, he did an excellent job in this area.
I believe that it is absolutely essential to open up marketing opportunities for organic products and to promote the relevant funding, especially in the less-favoured regions and above all in southern Europe.
I also believe that there should be Community-funded publicity campaigns for organic products, in the interests of public health, but also with a view to promoting measures to improve quality and combat overproduction.
