Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of our group I thank Mr Castricum very warmly for his report.
I think it is an excellent report, in which the European Parliament sets out its basic approach to the transport services which the towns, regions and Member States have to provide for their people and on the state aid that is also necessary to the provision of these public transport services.
We Christian Democrats agree with the other groups in this House that the towns, regions and Member States must define the tasks of local or regional public transport in the interest of the general public and ensure they are carried out.
Thank God the Social Democrats have managed to ensure that these public transport services are not necessarily to be provided by the public sector.
Instead, towns and regions should contract out the transport services to the undertaking, whether public or private, that offers the most efficient, user-friendly and cheapest service and also provides it.
If this House agrees on the principles, and I hope, Commissioner, that the Commission does not dispute them either, then we Christian Democrats, unlike the Social Democrats, see no need for the intergovernmental conference to draft a separate article giving a general definition of the public services and to include it in the Maastricht Treaty.
Nor do we think it is in the public interest for the Commission to set out new legal bases.
I am eager to hear whether the Commissioner believes it is essential for the European Commission and the European Community to draft new provisions.
I believe that introducing new European Treaty Articles and legal provisions goes against the principle of subsidiarity.
On the other hand, we Christian Democrats agree with the other groups in this House that the running costs of public transport must be financed largely through the fare and that where state aid is still required to cover shortfalls, this must be linked to efficiency and accessible to every supplier, be it a public or private transport undertaking.
Where special infrastructure is required for local public transport, the construction and management costs may certainly be borne by the state, while the transport undertaking - and here we entirely agree with Mr Castricum - has to pay an appropriate amount for its use.
I believe this House basically agrees on the principles.
So we are now waiting for the Commissioner to tell us whether the European Commission also approves Mr Castricum's excellent report.
