Madam President, the report discusses the second European conference in Berlin.
The basic aim was to issue recommendations to the Member States on how to make small and medium-sized undertakings more efficient.
But I think we should look mainly to the future.
Another conference of this kind is being held today and I believe it is urgently necessary to involve the European Parliament in the preparatory work of that conference and in setting its objectives.
At present Parliament is considering three important questions which are particularly important to small and medium-sized undertakings.
First, the SLIM initiative, which gives priority, among others, to simplifying the economic statistics, which are a major irritation for our SMEs; but it also concerns diplomas, for instance.
I think it is important for the future to look at means of cutting down on procedure so that if an undertaking has plans to expand, these can be implemented as quickly as possible.
The SLIM group is carrying out an important analysis here and perhaps the institutions could also consider involving the Economic and Social Committee more closely in this activity in future.
The second question the European Parliament is currently considering is the fiche d'impact .
This is a question of preventive action, i.e., of having slim-line and efficient legal provisions from the outset.
That is of course an urgent task for the European Parliament, which could clear the way by doing away with many provisions that subsequently become a burden for undertakings.
The third question we are currently considering is benchmarking.
Here the aim is to provide comparative facts on own capital resources, tax burdens and wage costs.
This objective approach is a quite central and important point.
Perhaps the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development would be the appropriate committee to do more work in this field, because benchmarking is particularly important for the regions.
We must also reinforce training and further training.
We should consider whether the resources currently available for LEONARDO are adequate.
Let me point out that calling last year the year of lifelong learning was a very important step because it raised people's awareness of the importance of lifelong learning and showed that learning can be an enjoyable pastime.
Research and development is an important area, not just product research but also market research.
We should also consider where small undertakings will find their markets in future.
