Commissioner, when I read the Commission document and also Mr Soulier's report, I thought the heading was wrong.
It should have read: ' Save the radioactive dinosaurs from extinction' .
When you look at these documents you find that the point of departure for considering energy supplies in Europe is totally wrong.
They start out from the assumption that the people of Europe will all cry: ' We want nuclear power, we want nuclear energy' .
But that is totally wrong as a point of departure!
The people want warm homes, they want light and the industry wants to be able to produce efficiently.
After that we have to decide which energy sources can be used in the most efficient and environmentally friendly manner.
And if we do just that, we find that energy saving, the efficient use of energy, offers the best chance of satisfying these demands.
We find that gas-steam power stations are cheaper than nuclear power stations.
We know how combined thermo-electric power can be used and we know about the potential of renewable energy sources.
This would offer a far better way of satisfying the people's needs than opting for the old technology of nuclear power.
We also know that the report glosses over the problems involved here, e.g. the question of subsidies from public funds, the question of the potential risks of nuclear power stations that are ostensibly running normally.
Here I can give you a few crumbs of information about what has been found in Germany: there is a risk of leukaemia.
Then of course there is the unresolved problem of decommissioning.
All in all, this is therefore not an objective picture.
I cannot understand why the document clutches at the straw of exports.
Surely it is giving an idealised picture to say that some countries are quite free to decide between nuclear power or a different form of energy.
A lot of money is at stake here.
There are powerful industrial interests that want precisely that, namely for nuclear power stations to be built.
Surely we are not offering them our know-how voluntarily.
That would indeed be giving an idealised picture.
No, if we spend European money on this sector, then it can only be for two purposes: firstly, to make the remaining term of operation safe and secondly to guarantee sensible waste disposal.
And that is very definitely the position of the German Social Democrats.
We should get away from the pressure of individual power station builders and energy suppliers who say it is essential to continue using this dated technology.
Let us confine ourselves to the two remaining tasks.
Let us not offer these old radioactive dinosaurs a future.
There is a future without dinosaurs too!
