Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am deputizing for Honor Funk because he has been called away urgently.
It is a fact that, at the moment, the pleasure of eating British beef is a somewhat limited one, although I would stress that Mrs Hardstaff of the United Kingdom has presented a good report, and I should like to congratulate her on it.
We know, however, that beef consumption has been in recession for years.
Last year, when it became known that there was a connection between BSE and Creutzfeld-Jacob disease, sales reached absolute rock-bottom.
The results are well known, and I do not need to go into them here.
Prices have collapsed, beef surpluses have had to be removed from the market by intervention.
For these reasons we expressly welcome the fact that measures are being taken to stop the crisis in sales and improve the situation.
It is always better to support and finance a sales promotion for quality meat, than to store it.
It is now critical that the proposed financial means - and I emphasise this particularly - pass into the right hands.
It must not be permitted for the money finally to end up in the hands of advertising agencies or wholesalers.
In recent months - and I attach great importance to this - regional markets, in some areas called farmers' markets, and farmers active in selling their own produce have come to pay more attention to this market and built it up considerably.
This is a meeting of specialist knowledge and local needs with corresponding consumer requirements.
These institutions are now in place and in many regions do not need to be established afresh.
We should support them.
I was the rapporteur for the report on identification marking for beef.
The quality of the animals, and particularly the identification and traceability, are a major concern to consumers.
This home produce selling is obviously one of the best ways of ensuring that the consumer who has an interest can learn precisely where, and under what circumstances and conditions, the animal has been reared.
These regional standards of origin and quality are regularly monitored and sales promotions are regularly held.
That should become clearly recognised.
Mrs Hardstaff, in Amendment No 8 to recital 7 we regarded the description "meat marketing industry' as a little restrictive and we therefore rejected the phrase.
The Commission has admittedly phrased things very generally, but this was a bit too limiting.
I must make one comment to Mr Graefe: I believe Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf was rather casual in his phraseology when he generalised that - and I reject this also - all producers make mistakes.
Some do, but not all.
