Mr President, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur, who has done an excellent job as always.
After the compliments, let us now get down to the facts.
It is only too easy to take up the cause of artists, but out of all the resale rights, just 9 % goes to living artists, 9 %!
The other 91 % goes to holders of rights and successors in title, and 9 % to living artists!
No mention has been made of this.
Nor does the Commission mention it in its proposals.
Furthermore, the dealers naturally also make money out of this system, between 10 and 20 % in fact, and that is why they are campaigning so vigorously as well.
The people who receive the least are the living artists.
That will be reinforced by the Commission's proposal.
Clearly, harmonization is required.
To get down to the facts, I should like to give an example of how what the Legal Affairs Committee is proposing would actually have worked out over the last 25 years.
I should be glad to provide details of the source on which this is based, but that would take too much time now - it is a very thorough piece of work.
So, let us go back to 1970 and the market in the United Kingdom, where 3072 works have since been sold for more than ECU 100 000.
In the same period, 1970 to 1996, 3630 such works were sold in the United States.
So this is a very tight market, with very tough competition.
If we had had the proposal from the Legal Affairs Committee - let alone the incredible proposals which go beyond that, just the Legal Affairs Committee's proposal - then these 3072 works which were sold for more than ECU 100 000 would have cost the European market ECU 1 033 856 359.
Do you still seriously think that this would not have led to a relocation of the market?
Do you still seriously think that with such a cost to the market, sales would just have carried on cheerfully in Europe?
Such an idea is madness!
You will ensure that no more works by Picasso or Van Gogh are sold in the European Union, that nothing at all is sold, and that art is no longer talked about in the EU.
That is what will happen!
