Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too believe that this compromise text represents a success for the European Parliament.
It is of course arguable whether it is a great success or a moderate one.
I believe that we have secured the key point: whenever a genetically modified organism is present in a food, this must be indicated on the label.
This will enable consumers, and especially people suffering from allergies, to eliminate any possible risks, however small these may be.
It is not a question of Russian roulette, Mrs Breyer.
You are lying in that respect!
No one should be seriously claiming that the rejection of this compromise text will lead to a better outcome.
Rejecting the text would simply produce what the US industry and many of those responsible in the European Union have long desired: no labelling at all.
And that is undoubtedly the reason why all the European consumer associations are pressing us to approve the compromise text.
Nor is the frequently drawn comparison with the patenting directive at all helpful, since in that case, firstly, we had a bad compromise text presented to us for a decision; and, secondly, we had the alternative of retaining the concurrent national patent laws for a certain period of time - some two to three years - until a better European law was introduced.
In this case, the compromise text is the alternative.
The other option is simply to have no labelling at all, since surely even the Greens do not seriously believe that all 15 national governments and parliaments are suddenly going to introduce rules on labelling.
I have often defended the Greens, and also Greenpeace, against unjustified criticism.
Not everything that the Greens and Greenpeace say is nonsense.
However, I should like to end by saying that the campaign by Greenpeace and the Greens against this compromise text is irresponsible propaganda!
If they are successful tomorrow, then the present intolerable situation will be perpetuated: genetically modified soya, maize and other foods will be free to go on supermarket shelves without labelling, and the chance to do something about it will have been lost.
We must therefore approve this joint text.
