Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when the European Union granted tariff preferences to Myanmar - formerly Burma - in 1994, the political situation there was already extremely tense.
Nonetheless, relief was given for certain industrial goods and agricultural products, not least in the hope that improvements in the social situation could be achieved.
The opposite has happened.
In Myanmar, human rights are trampled over, and ill-treatment, arrests and torture are everyday occurrences.
The democracy movement is subject to repression, and for years now Mrs Aung San Suu Kyi, President of the National League for Democracy, has been under house arrest.
She is a holder of the Sakharov Prize and of the Nobel Peace Prize.
How can we effectively combat a regime which treats those holding different views as criminals?
As has already been pointed out, the forced labour taking place in Myanmar is a form of slavery which breaches the international agreements, the Geneva Convention, the ILO Convention and so on.
Suspension of the tariff preferences is absolutely essential.
In the opinion of the Commission, the Council, the NGOs, Amnesty International and the State Department, human rights abuses in Myanmar increased further during 1996.
It has been and remains the aim of the European Parliament to make development cooperation dependent on respect for human rights, an example of this being last year's cooperation agreement with Nepal.
Parliament must therefore be consulted before any future decisions by the Council on the restoration of tariff preferences, as rightly proposed by the rapporteur, Mrs Theorin.
A legal basis exists for this to happen.
We must continue to apply pressure through the political and economic means at our disposal.
No consideration can be shown towards ruthless policies.
At the same time, we wish to give a sign of encouragement to the democracy movement in Myanmar.
Its peaceful resistance to the junta which has seized power is exemplary.
It deserves both solidarity and success!
