Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the communication from the Commission on the future of social protection and its report on social protection in Europe 1995 form the basis for Mrs Weiler's resolution.
Social harmony is, in my opinion, a valuable asset.
That is something that South Korea has had to learn by bitter experience in recent weeks.
Therefore, it should not lightly be put at risk.
The fact is that we must overcome the difficulties which have emerged in Europe's various social systems as a result of rising unemployment and the growing proportion of elderly people in the population.
It is important to discuss these issues at European level.
However, discussion is not enough.
Action is needed, and reforms are inevitable.
But they should not be viewed simply in terms of reducing or axing parts of the social security net.
Efforts to improve employment opportunities in the EU, particularly for women, have not been very successful so far, to put it mildly.
Under Article 117 of the Treaty, progress should be made towards harmonizing living standards and working conditions as we move forward.
Unfortunately, we have not yet made a great deal of headway.
There are many problems to be resolved.
Some of them arise from the multiplicity of systems and the question of freedom of movement.
Earlier today, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten delivered a report on this aspect.
Unfortunately, the Council representative was not present.
Perhaps, Minister, it is not too late for you to express a view on that report.
We would be very interested in what you have to say.
Turning now to the reduction of non-wage labour costs: non-insurance benefits are a burden on labour-intensive small and medium-sized companies and, of course, on employee contributions.
This is an area where action must be taken.
Yes, working hours should be made more flexible, but not merely in order to suit employers, without regard for the needs of families and workers.
Greater flexibility should only be introduced where it takes account of the interests of both sides.
I believe that active social partnership can solve many problems.
But they will not be solved if employers concern themselves only with shareholder value and fail to see further than their profits.
Nor will they be solved if trade unions are concerned only for those in work, without giving any thought to the unemployed.
The future of social protection is a matter of great importance for the European Union.
It is time for the social protocol to be included in the Treaty.
Coordinating social protection systems at European level will not be easy.
I am talking about coordination: harmonization is something that will take much longer, because these systems have developed over more than a century.
The situation is further complicated by the impact of globalization.
In the future, appropriate clauses must be included in trade agreements to ban social dumping in the form of child labour or forced labour; these practices simply cannot be accepted as the norm.
The WTO agreement in Singapore was a small step in the right direction, but unfortunately only a small one.
The rapporteur has done an enormous amount of work.
How the Group of the European People's Party decides to vote on the report will depend on whether certain amendments are adopted.
Unfortunately, if compromise on these points proves impossible, we shall be obliged to reject the report, and I would regret that very much.
