Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the wake of the BSE issue and the crisis of confidence it has engendered among consumers, the three proposals on the registration of cattle and the labelling of beef, as well as the Olsson report, are of great importance.
It is quite simply vital that we succeed in restoring consumer confidence.
The possibility of proving the origin of cattle and beef will be a decisive step in that direction.
The Commission's strategy of providing for the registration of cattle and for the compulsory introduction of both a database and animal passports is the correct approach.
We should not let ourselves be put off by supposed technical difficulties.
The experience of some Member States with databases has shown that they have considerable potential.
It is undeniable that the 1992 Directive has not been satisfactorily transposed.
Perhaps it was never properly transposable.
Speculation about the origins of individual animals remains rife.
We should be in no doubt that the real work to implement the new Regulation still lies ahead of us.
For example, steps must be taken to ensure that exchanges between the databases of Member States actually work in practice.
What use is it to a French farmer if he is offered an animal from Spain but has no knowledge of its precise origin because its data are only available in the Spanish database, to which he has no access, or vice versa ?
I simply cannot understand why the Commission wants to allow fourteen days after importation for compulsory identification of animals from third countries.
This provides scope for fraud to take place during that very period.
I emphatically support the amendment tabled by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development whereby imported animals would be identified immediately, as the Mayer report states.
The entire system, however, will only serve its purpose if the evidence of origin can also be communicated to the consumer.
For that reason we need beef to be labelled all the way through to the shop counter.
We in the House are agreed that a voluntary labelling system as proposed by the Commission is the wrong way to restore consumer confidence.
In my opinion it is futile to rely on market forces to create a system of labelling.
As long as there is no blanket provision for the labelling of such products throughout Europe, distrust will continue to prevail among consumers.
Only a compulsory labelling system can remedy the situation.
The message given by the Commission to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection was this: if labelling is voluntary, meat products and other by-products, such as those containing gelatine, can be included in this Directive.
But the result of that will be a lot of labelling, a lengthy process and a great deal of concealment.
What you are presenting to us here is a conjuring trick.
According to these proposals, eight details about the animal from which the gelatine is derived must appear on packaging such as a cream carton: the date of slaughter, the sex of the animal, the method used to cut up the carcass, to name but a few.
That is unrealistic, and we should steer well clear of it.
I naturally understand the motives of those who advocate a far-reaching compulsory system here too.
It is a fact that we need to give a clear signal after the BSE crisis, to prove our determination to make a fresh start.
The question, however, is whether this is possible with a set of requirements that can scarcely work in practice.
I can only warn against pursuing that approach.
While we may understand the motives, we must ask ourselves whether public confidence would be far more seriously dented if such labelling were to prove impossible and if, in trying to meet our obligation to deal with this matter, we were seen to be doing something that was perhaps incomprehensible and perhaps even mistaken - for that situation is on the cards.
What will happen when that sort of thing occurs?
How do we then hope to restore consumer confidence?
I believe we should only put verifiable information on labels.
Of course, no Member State should be prevented from adopting rules of its own, but at a European level we should not go through with this.
What should not, however, be rejected, Commissioner - and this is my earnest plea - are our demands that the reports be dealt with under Article 108.
After yesterday's speech from Mr Santer, I believe you will find it easy to agree to these demands.
The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has unanimously endorsed them.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has agreed that negotiation on the matter is legitimate.
So we are well on our way.
