Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the current great horror scenario is global warming, that is, the warming greenhouse effect harmful to the environment, an increase in ocean levels, or growth of deserts.
It also means the opposite: destruction of the ozone layer, which would have the result of making all life on Earth impossible.
The theories are based on model experiments which appear to provide incontrovertible evidence that these environmental effects are caused by emissions resulting from human activity.
Model calculations are only as good, however, as the assumptions on which they are based.
This is the Achilles heel of the matter, in my view.
We humans simply know too little.
Why, for example, did Ice Ages arise thousands of years ago, and disappear again?
Why does El Niño occur in a particular cycle off the South American west coast and influence the weather?
What influence have ocean currents and seas in any case?
What is the influence of cloud formation?
Is it coincidental that at the moment doubts are increasing again about the effectiveness of current climate models, which are being created at enormous cost throughout the World?
As many serious scientists complain, the major problem lies in the fact that no, or too few, data are available from many parts of the world, often because the poor state of the detection stations makes the data unusable, or incapable of comparison.
This scenario illuminates the importance of today's report on the proposed European Union systems for observing and recording CO2 and other greenhouse gases.
The European Union has been making efforts to improve the area coverage of detection stations in every country of the Union even since the 1980s.
It is important not only to reduce CFCs and stop their use, but that gradually all other poisonous materials with similar effects are detected.
This proposal by the Commission is a further step in this direction, which our group supports without reservation.
We do have, however, like the rapporteur, a few improvements to make.
Firstly, the estimated values must in future, if we require them, be produced from unified criteria.
Yet these are not obtainable.
I have, though, serious doubts about the value of such estimated values a long time in advance, over and above that they give rise to considerable bureaucratic effort.
Secondly, as a result of the Rio Agreement all relevant measures of the European Union and member states are included into the international work of UNEP, OECD and IPCC, the multilateral groups for climate changes.
For this amendment to be put into operation at all, Member States must test for emissions according to a unified procedure to be laid down in this directive.
This procedure should be that currently being developed by the IPCC.
This is the reason for my amendment motion.
To learn more we must measure more.
But that costs money.
We have a responsibility to future generations, however, not only to deal carefully with non-renewable natural resources, but also with that rare commodity, money.
It seems to me to be more responsible to invest money worldwide in detection stations, than to put it into estimated figures which are partially politically inspired.
I regret that my colleague, Mr Fitzsimons, cannot be here, as he was responsible for the other two reports and made important contributions to improvements which can we fully support, all except for one: Amendment No 5.
I should like to propose, however, that an addition be made to my amendment, because that idea came from him.
If I could learn from the Commission how the proposal is looking, it might be improved by an addition.
I should have no objection to that.
I would be very interested to learn, therefore, how the Commission views the matter.
