Mr, President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is a very good idea for the Commission to think about how the dialogue and cooperation between the European Union and Japan should be conducted in future.
After all, these are two of the most economically powerful units in the world, if one looks at this trio illustration.
At any rate, and this is a negative record, the most environmental sins are produced in these two blocs together!
The greatest power is concentrated in these two blocs to make them precursors for the production of another form of economy, an economy that no longer continues to carry out irresponsible economic plunder of the world's resources.
There is little point in the Japanese protecting their forests in Japan, whilst in Asia or Latin America they relentlessly clear the land of trees to make disposable chopsticks!
That may very well be a cultural viewpoint, but it is not enough for me.
Yet there was not a word on it in the original wording of the resolution to the Commission awaiting our votes today.
We actually had to include in the text such obvious ideas, as that there was a common interest in global environmental stability.
Instead of an agreement on a common procedure for the path towards a stable future, I find in the text the suggestion that Japan and the EU should give each other mutual support, in order to secure each other's global economic spheres of influence.
To return to the point about the environment: there still rings in our ears Japan's vehement rejection at the Kyoto World Climate Conference of any binding declaration on a reduction of emissions.
As though nothing had occurred, our declaration now says that we should each act together on the environment within the WTO.
We know quite well what is possible on the environment within the WTO.
The Singapore Conference showed that perfectly clearly.
I have a high regard for Mr Moorhouse as an excellent rapporteur and I can substantiate much of what is in his report.
I think it is very important at this point that the EU and Japan should together consider as a single de facto power base in this trio how a social, ecological and cooperative economy, with cooperative world trade, could be made possible.
For it is of no use to us - neither Japan nor ourselves - if one day we are first and Japan third, because someone will have to pay for this deficit.
Our concern is to bring in all countries, so that we can escape from these deficitary, ecologically and socially damaging conditions.
I feel it is most important to plan the future exchange of culture and points of view on this, and not to consider how best to deregulate the most.
Each country should decide for itself, how it should like to construct its economy.
One thing I can say: many deregulating procedures in this world have had just the opposite effect.
The rich can afford them and the poor can neither visit a hospital nor make a telephone call; nor in any other way participate in the good things of this Earth.
