Madam President, anyone following today's debate will have noted that it has been conducted with cool common sense although, in some cases, not without emotion.
There is absolutely no point, given the present situation in Albania, in moaning about communism and about the successors of communism in Albania, whose part in the proceedings has not been very edifying.
And anyone who still talks about the dubious role of the socialists in Albania should be asking himself whether he is striking the right note.
Because what matters now, as I see it, is that all men of good will should pool all their resources to work to improve conditions in Albania, to work together, and Berisha himself must play a constructive part in this process of reconstruction and do his bit for it.
I should like to emphasize how seriously this House has taken, and still is taking, the debate on the situation in Albania.
I believe the debate, and the joint motion for a resolution, which addresses all the important factors, show that we are prepared to do what is necessary to help support the building of new political and economic structures; all speakers in this debate have clearly expressed that point of view.
The emphasis is on 'joint' , because without joint action the task will not be done.
To this extent, I hope that the announcements by the Council and by the Commission were not just empty promises.
Mention was made at the beginning of this debate of the ECU 500 million or so that have found their way to Albania through the PHARE programme.
The Commission will have to ask itself - not today, but sometime - where that money went to.
At any rate, when I was in Albania I saw nothing of any of the projects that were allegedly being aided with that money.
I believe, at the end of the day, the international community and especially the European Union, the OSCE and the International Monetary Fund, now have a duty to support the macroeconomic development in Albania so that people there can once again have a future.
Otherwise, I think, the long-term prospects for that country are poor.
Anyway, we are willing to do our part.
