Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, advertising that misuses sexist stereotypes and women's bodies to market products is discriminatory, because it debases the dignity of women.
The pointed double meanings of offensive texts and the provocative display of the naked female form cannot be tolerated, although the boundary between eroticism, with aesthetic photographs, and pornography cannot always be clearly defined.
Amongst Member States of the European Union there are varying standards for what may be said, printed, or shown, based on varying cultural views.
But that cannot absolve us from finding common European rules, even if our efforts are denounced as prudish, unenlightened or perhaps outmoded.
I think reducing women to the role of an object in advertising is outmoded.
Women have long fulfilled a variety of functions with great competence, from psychology in everyday life, through leadership qualities in the professions, to engagement in politics, culture and society.
It would be an exciting task for advertising to prepare this reality in an interesting way, and it would underline the message more convincingly.
There are regulations at national level for those involved in advertising and communication.
Although not always voluntary, they still incorporate guidance and monitoring functions.
The German Advertising Council, for instance, which has just celebrated its 25th birthday, has made effective contributions to self-regulation, including measures for public condemnation and warnings against repetition.
Further legal regulation can be dispensed with if control is effective.
There is no European code of ethics, however, and there are no agreements at national level.
Advertising that discriminates against women must be stopped before it is broadcast or printed.
For this reason those who create advertising must be sensitized.
I was in creative advertising for more than 20 years.
We tried to give a positive impression, design product concepts and communication content appropriate to the target audience, achieve identification with and acceptance of the products, clarify, and initiate a buying response, but without using clichés, without causing embarrassment or offence, and without being defamatory.
That was, and is, the intellectual challenge of creative contact with customers.
The excellent and detailed report by Marlene Lenz, and the hearing initiated by her in the Committee on Women's Rights, have clearly shown that we must keep up the fight against discrimination.
That is particularly true after the adoption of important passages in the Amsterdam Draft Treaty.
