Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the Seventh Annual Report on the Structural Funds for 1995 is the first one to also cover the new Member States of Austria, Sweden and Finland.
We recently had an opportunity to say something more specific about some of their experiences, in a separate report on the implementaton of regional policy in those three Member States, and I am taking the opportunity today to draw certain comparisons.
They are very interesting at times.
In many respects our report was very similar.
We criticized the fact, which is indeed a problem, that in many cases there was and still is far too much bureaucracy both at Community level and in the Member States, too many programmes and, comparatively, too little money in the end.
In many ways the picture in the three new Member States was more positive than on average in Europe, and certainly so in relation to some real black spots.
In regard to the utilization of resources in particular, despite the fact that we have only been Members for a very short time, the three new Member States certainly managed to utilize a very large proportion of these resources in the start-up phase.
I am pointing this out here because it is important to ensure that resources which were not utilized at the time can and must be used up by the end of this year.
On the whole, utilization of resources was very good.
This is exceptionally true in the case of SMEs, women's programmes, the information society and in particular LEADER and INTERREG.
There were some not so good examples.
In particular, the new Member States did not or not entirely manage to make it clear that EU resources were also contributed to the projects in question.
We must draw the necessary consequences.
We must provide more information and also learn from best practices; we must take the assessment seriously and must continue with careful planning in future too.
We are glad to note that the Commission is itself planning to radically simplify and clarify the programmes for the next phase.
We in the European Parliament will be happy to take part in this work, even though we will not yet have the new co-decision powers under the Amsterdam Treaty.
