Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have come to deal with an important aspect of the BSE issue, namely the identification of animals, but also the labelling of beef.
We in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development agreed that compulsory identification should also apply to beef products.
I hope that the Commission will endorse our view, because we believe that farmers are not the only ones on whom responsibilities can be imposed - and it is right that they should be imposed, and we do support that - but the processing industry should also be brought into line.
The tendency of the processing industry to buy as cheaply and anonymously as possible must be stopped, partly for the sake of consumers but also partly for the sake of producers, since processing companies would then have less freedom to keep changing suppliers.
Compulsory labelling would enable producers to set realistic prices but would also help consumers by enabling them to trace the origin of meat.
To put it rather tritely, if I bought beef produced by Meier and Company, and if, as a consumer, I was very satisfied with it, I should assume that Meier produced good beef; if, however, on my next visit to the same retailer the label showed that the meat was not from Meier's, I should want to know why that supplier was no longer being used.
If the answer was that the meat could be bought more cheaply from another company - which, of course, is normally the motive for changing suppliers - that rationale would have nothing to do with quality but would be based purely on business considerations, which might not be understood by consumers.
They would prefer to stay with the supplier they knew and trusted, and that reinforces our position.
Allow me to end with one more thought.
When we speak of all this registration, Mr Fischler, we must not, of course, confuse registration with the fight against BSE.
When we feed registered cows with infected meat-andbone meal, they will still become mad cows - or registered insane cows; let us be clear about that.
Registration is an aid and an indicator for consumers, but it is not a remedy for BSE, if I may reiterate that quite plainly.
