Mr President.
Non-governmental environmental protection organizations play a particularly important role in Europe.
We are bound to the principle of the eco-social market economy and ecology represents an important basic constituent of life for us.
But we also live in a democracy, and these organizations must also obey the rules of democracy.
In this programme it is our absolute priority to support environmental organizations at European level, and not merely in the Europe of the Fifteen, but particularly in geographical Europe as well, that is, particularly in the countries surrounding the European Community.
We want to place environmental education above all at the centre, because the environment is also a matter of attitude and one cannot begin early enough to teach young people how important a clean, healthy environment is for us all.
For this we need research.
We simply must find methods that allow us to demonstrate to young people where the path leads.
We need an objective base, and we must depart from such power words as fear, from stirring up fear, from deriding things.
I believe we have to move on towards providing a positive example.
In accordance with the methods of new public management and best practice, we should look for ideal situations around the world, which we could adopt for our own use.
We should utilize benchmarking, that is, we should evaluate where the environmental situation can be improved, with what means it can be improved, and we should make the necessary infrastructure available to these organizations.
It is essential that creative forces in the market place should continuously make us aware of where there are weaknesses in the system, and it is our duty to prove that we are looking for the best path.
For this reason we want to raise the funding.
Not 50 %, but 60 % of the costs should be refunded.
We maintain that the whole framework should be better financed, but we also expect from the environmental organizations that they operate according to the democratic principles usual for us in Europe.
We also want correct accounting, that is, we want no funding which is not subject to controls, or which flows into channels where it cannot be scrutinized, and which simply give environmental organizations a bad image.
For this reason we demand that when more than ECU 100, 000 is spent, we should have at least a qualified book-keeper, a balance sheet and a correct profit and loss account, so that the European taxpayer can see that his money is being used in a lawful and orderly manner.
We must also say quite clearly, and I should like to stress this to the Commission, what we do not want.
We do not want the funds to be spent on general education, on the public in general, or on work that often follows objectives which fail to place environmental issues at the forefront.
We want specifically to illuminate the ecological situation and to achieve improvements there.
Furthermore, we ask that criminal organizations, terrorists, those who attack our system by really criminal means, should receive no European Union money.
That is an absolutely essential principle.
It is intolerable, in the light of our duty towards the people of Europe, for us to be supporting criminals or terrorists.
I should be pleased if we were to gain support for this from all other democratic parties in this Parliament.
