Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to add a few words on the conference in Singapore.
It is always a matter of some surprise to me how we in this Parliament, instead of acknowledging the achievements of a major conference such as Dublin or a successful conference like Singapore, manage rather to denigrate that success by making excessive demands.
Surely, as the European Parliament, we too must be able once in a while to acknowledge positive results - so that when the people outside hear us, they will see that progress is being made - instead of always using the same negative yardstick.
What use is that to anyone?
And when the individual speakers come to realize afterwards what thanks they get for adopting such an approach, they will see that they are appreciated only by themselves, and even that appreciation is misplaced.
Together, we experienced a conference in Singapore which opened against a background of heavy scepticism.
It was the first conference to review the functioning of the WTO, and the decisions at it were taken by a consensus procedure involving 150 countries.
The 15 countries of the European Union, which were represented by the voices of the Council and, in particular, the Commission, could achieve nothing if a single country - Albania, for example, or any of the others - refused its assent.
Under such circumstances, the conference was an important and positive milestone as regards the future development of the WTO.
I should like to make that point here, and I should also like to convey to the Council my appreciation of the fact that it worked: that we spoke with one voice in Singapore.
The person to whom we owe that achievement is Sir Leon Brittan, and I should like to thank him in particular for the committed approach which he took, in close contact, of course, with 15 different ministers who subordinated their own interests to the fact that they had made the Commission their spokesman.
In my opinion, we as a Parliament were, so far as possible, well integrated in the process.
We went to Singapore in order to take part, and that should continue to be our practice in future.
I am fundamentally grateful for that, even if parliaments never achieve everything they might wish.
We must also be very satisfied as regards the results of the conference.
The conclusion of an agreement on information technology products, with the green light for a future deal on telecommunications, is an historic event in terms of the further development of world trade.
It will contribute to prosperity and encourage free trade; we can all see it as something extremely positive - and we should be saying so.
My final point is this: of course, the emerging and developing countries are in an extremely difficult situation.
We read every day about the troubles which are taking place in those countries and how poverty in their societies is on the increase, and it is understandable that people there should fear that we are seeking, by laying down environmental and social standards, to make them less competitive.
What is needed is mouth-to-mouth resuscitation: a real and continuing effort to convince these countries that it is in their own interest for us to move forward together.
Singapore was a successful conference.
As the European Union, we can take pride in our presence there, and I would only say that if we can sustain this kind of development, we shall also, in the long term, achieve our goal of free world trade.
