Mr President, Commissioner, Germany is the second strongest country in the EU and the second largest recipient of resources from the European structural funds.
And that is despite the fact that Germany is supposed to be and indeed is one of the strongest countries in the European Union.
The explanation is that the European Union is paying attention to the situation in Germany and, as the rapporteur Gerhard Botz just said, is giving massive support to the new Länder.
But the European Union is also assuming responsibility for the weaker regions in the old Federal Länder.
It is important to note that, for as Europeans we want to pay attention to the regions, to regional differences.
In Germany the European Union is assisting what are regarded as the fallen giants in Objective 2 regions.
These are the industrial regions that have to overcome problems for which they need our support because they are engaged in structural adjustment measures; they were the motive force in Europe for many decades and they therefore deserve our support.
Secondly, the European Union is also assisting the rural regions, which are quite different from the industrial ones because they have to tackle different problems, namely the lack of infrastructure and also the fact that the European agricultural policy creates difficulties for them.
In terms of disbursement of the structural fund resources, Germany is unfortunately no paragon.
In 1995 only 21 % of the funds earmarked for Objective 2 regions were disbursed.
In the case of Objective 5b regions, the figure was only 51 %.
So opportunities were missed, opportunities to promote development but also opportunities to bring the people closer to Europe by making it clear to them that Europe is looking after them too.
In the near future we will monitor the disbursement of the funds more practically, critically and promptly in the committee and at every opportunity, so that we really can make more progress with using the funds in Germany too.
We know that the application procedures are to be improved and in view of the further development of the structural funds we should take what the regional representatives have said very seriously, in relation also to the findings of Gerhard Botz's report.
We must try when we further develop the structural funds to simplify them, to concentrate them, to strengthen partnership and avoid duplicated assistance, and in particular to ensure transparency, so that the people can see on the spot what is happening with the European resources.
We must no longer allow resources to be pocketed without it being made clear that the European Union is assuming responsibility for all those people in Europe who live in regions that need assistance.
European assistance in Germany can stand up to scrutiny.
We support it entirely.
Of course we will continue to point to the problem areas and try to bring about improvements where these are necessary.
We fully and entirely support the outstanding report by my friend Gerhard Botz.
