Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unlike the Green Group, we shall vote for the report by Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi, even though we share some of the reservations expressed by Mr Voggenhuber on behalf of his group.
I shall start, as so often with reports of this type, with a critique of the Council procedural methods, which have once again been completely symptomatic.
When we argue - there is a reference to this in the Palacio Vallelersundi report - that in the European Union there must in the long term be common constitutional development, parallel to economic and financial development, but at the start of this debate we once again discover that basic rules are ignored every time, then this procedural error by the Council shows how undemocratic the Council is, particularly concerning the third pillar of Maastricht.
An example of basic rules being ignored is that the European Parliament is only consulted within the consultative procedure when matters are already on the move.
That may change with the Amsterdam Treaty, which lays down the requirement to consult the European Parliament.
As well as this undemocratic procedure, powers for the Court of Justice are also missing, as Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi has already mentioned.
This is not for the first time either.
We complain about it over and over again.
The mere fact that the European Court of Justice is not granted powers is itself a missing legal safeguard for the citizens concerned.
Not to incorporate legal guarantees still existing in national legislation, when elements of national legislation concerning internal security have been delegated to the European Union, only reinforces the permanent, unexpressed mistrust which is felt about the procedures of the European Union.
In my view these points have all been rightly made.
There are, however, some improvements which we, despite criticism, must also praise.
During the debate in our committee we came to a point, however, where we had to make our positions plain.
This concerned the question of political crime.
Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi touched on it, and I shall not repeat it here, because it occupied our committee for weeks.
I want to say quite clearly on behalf of my group that if we are a Community of democratic constitutional states, and if each Member State only acknowledges in another that the constitution it practises and uses accords with basic democratic principles, then there can be no protection against political crimes within the European Union.
One of the most important contributions to this debate is that the Palacio Vallelersundi report makes that clear and records it.
Not only the rapporteur, but all who worked on the report, deserve our thanks for that.
Despite all doubts which we still have, we have arrived at the conclusion that we shall vote for the report, and that is a compliment to Mrs Palacio Vallelersundi for her hard work and also her readiness to accept our criticisms.
