Mr President, let me just say to the previous speaker: our amendments are not based on ideology but quite simply on facts that can be proven.
I can understand that this does not suit her, as a Frenchwoman, but nevertheless one should not mix up the facts.
As for the Commission's nuclear programme, it is marked by the thinking and environmental approach of the 1960s and in no way takes account either of current knowledge and needs or of the fact that half the Member States have no nuclear power at all.
On closer inspection it actually becomes clear that countries that do have nuclear power do not want to build new nuclear power stations because their people do not want it and also because it is too expensive.
It is in fact cheaper not to build nuclear power stations, for to build a new 1000 megawatt reactor costs between five and eight times as much as to build a modern conventional reactor.
Yet the Commission is calling for long-term regional and economic framework conditions that are nothing more than specific aid programmes - which we have already had in 1972, 1976, 1984 and 1990.
And we are now basically being presented with a fifth aid programme for the nuclear industry.
Your document is also littered with mistakes and half-truths.
You state that nuclear installations are designed and built to contain virtually all the byproducts of their operation, even under accidental conditions.
That is surely quite wrong, for I wonder how the radioactivity from Windscale-Sellafield can be measured off the coasts of Canada and I wonder how come the drinking water at The Hague is contaminated with tritium and I wonder why nuclides escape during the normal running of nuclear power stations?
This cannot be accepted as it stands.
Even to say the costs of dismantling a nuclear power station are 10 % to 15 % of the construction costs is a nonsense.
Firstly, we have only dismantled small nuclear power stations - two to date - and secondly they had extremely short running times, namely four to six weeks.
Now France, for instance, is postponing the dismantling for 50 years, England is doing so for a whole 100 years, so I do not know how these costs can be calculated.
Then you say that progress has been made in disposing of the waste from European nuclear installations.
That is a bit much!
Indeed fears are growing here.
Surely you are not calling it waste disposal when I put the rubbish bin in the hall.
That is not disposal.
It is not clear which geological barriers are the correct ones.
We do not even know into what matrix we are squeezing it, let alone how to evaluate and set the criteria for the long-term safety of nuclear storage sites.
Lastly let me say this: we have two thousand tonnes of weapon-grade plutonium and uranium in the world, and that is bad.
To this the Commission says: we want to process it into MOX fuel.
I say: that too is nonsense, for most light-water reactors are not suited to that.
The nuclear industry had 40 years to prove that it is clean, safe and cheap and that the waste can be disposed of safely.
It has not managed to do so in those 40 years.
So the only conclusion to be drawn is: out with this dinosaur technology!
