Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is to be expected that what has happened in previous years here in Parliament will be repeated once again this morning, namely that the debate on the annual report on the human rights situation in the European Union for 1995 will degenerate into a discussion marked on the one hand by fundamental differences of opinion on what a human rights debate should involve and, on the other hand, by self-interested national and group tactics.
The latter will undoubtedly colour the vote on both sides of the House again today, in all groups, and I regret that very much.
Mrs Roth rightly said, and the debate and vote in committee also made this clear, that it is a luxury for the European Union to draw up two different human rights reports: one on the situation in the Union, and one on the situation in the rest of the world.
It is as if there were two different kinds of human rights: one for Europeans and one for non-Europeans!
It is completely absurd for us to say that today's report sets everything out, but that no Member State can be mentioned by name in relation to a specific human rights abuse, and no Member State can be accused of failing to respect human rights fully and completely.
Because the fact is that a debate has been gathering force in all the political groups over the last few years which is aimed at preventing precisely that, in other words saying that human rights are indivisible.
Verifying respect for human rights has nothing to do with a state's membership of a political union or any other kind of international community, but a great deal to do with whether politicians, governments, administrations - it does not matter where - are capable not only of observing the fundamental rights which they themselves have established, but also of monitoring and, if necessary, enforcing compliance with those rights.
This brings me to two crucial sections of this report, which I should like to bring to the attention of the House.
Mrs Roth deals with the question of the rights of people in detention.
There is no better indication of how humane a society is, how closely it observes human rights, than the degree to which it respects the rights of those who have violated society's basic rules.
They are nevertheless entitled to an assurance of basic humane treatment, access to a fair trial and observance of the fundamental principles of human dignity while they are in detention.
A democratic state or a democratic international organization such as the European Union - which, as Mrs Roth said, points the finger at other parts of the world, and we in the European Parliament are not exactly restrained in this respect, but seek to reinforce such condemnation - must allow the legitimacy of its criticism of the human rights record of other countries to be judged in the light of its own record.
And, as far as the rights of people in detention are concerned, this report makes it clear that the situation in almost all the Member States leaves a good deal to be desired.
This section alone makes it clear, therefore, that we can longer afford to conduct such a debate - which is characterized by individual interests, and by tactics and manoeuvres aimed at securing a majority in order to prevent a disagreeable outcome - if we wish to retain even a glimmer of credibility in the long term.
There is something else that I should like to draw to the House's attention.
In past years, we have sometimes had to put up with disgraceful attempts to turn the human rights report into an ideological battleground at the time of voting.
We cannot afford this in the long term.
I would therefore ask the House to consider, in view of the fact that we proclaim in our reports that human rights are indivisible and equally valid throughout the world, whether we need two different human rights reports.
Should we not have a single report on the human rights situation in the European Union and the rest of the world, to be debated and adopted by the House?
I believe that this would serve to neutralize these tactics to some extent.
