Mr President, a lack of curiosity is an indication that a person is growing old.
And a society which does not engage in organized research is on the way to decline.
But obviously, one also has to ask what people are curious about, and what is being researched.
It requires no great leap of the imagination to envisage people who are curious about extremely destructive - even self-destructive - things, and unfortunately that is an analogy which applies to our European societies.
If we look at what the package actually contains, there is aeronautics, fingerprint technologies and industrial engineering with a view to economizing on water use: that accounts for ECU 60 million already, by my calculations.
BSE research as a whole accounts for ECU 34.5 m, and a closer look reveals that this is intended mainly for animal experiments which are expected to yield results in about ten years' time.
That is not where the BSE problem lies: the problem is that we need to change our agricultural policy and stop feeding animals on animalbased meal.
Looking too at the research that is to be undertaken into information and communication technologies, one sometimes gains the impression that it is all about preparing for escape into virtual reality, as opposed to investigating the interface between social processes and technological change, and all the possible options and objectives which this entails.
In the programme as a whole, ECU 147 m is devoted to research on socio-economic issues, and this in a society which is undergoing radical social and environmental change.
Something is seriously amiss here.
Considering the problems that confront us, the priorities are wrong.
Mr Linkohr has made a few adjustments: in particular, the ECU 33 m for non-nuclear energy is clearly a positive change, but it is not enough to convince us of the value of the concept.
After all, this is a retreat from the position at first reading, and the situation that we are forever bemoaning - the fact that Europe has lost or deliberately given away its competitive edge - is actually connected with the need to develop a sense of curiosity about the social, technological and scientific problems that we face.
So far, that is not what we are talking about here.
We shall abstain.
