Mr President, the social dialogue, which embraces all branches of industry and is present in various sectors of the economy, in advisory committees and at sectoral level, makes an important contribution to the finding of effective solutions in employment policy, to the creation of new jobs and to the participation of women.
Social consensus is an important advantage for Europe in terms of business location and of the investment that is so desperately needed.
With regard to the globalization of the economy, in the face of which many people seem to be paralysed, like a rabbit facing a snake, employment rules will have to be adjusted, but not thrown overboard, social reconstruction will have to be jointly agreed, and social breakdown will have to be jointly prevented.
Cooperation is the only real answer to the currently rampant conflict strategies.
The social dialogue, therefore, must be strengthened, and Helwin Peter has given us a timely reminder of this fact.
However, Commissioner, the Commission must see to it that there are effective advisory committees.
Therefore we need some early, systematic hearings and thematic coordination measures.
The social partners must open up.
This means that the circle consisting of the three major umbrella organizations must be broadened to include the representatives of small and medium-sized undertakings, whether by consultation or negotiation.
It also means that the structures in the future Member States of the European Union will have to be included.
The social dialogue must be oriented towards the future.
One important point with regard to its content is of course employment policy, but areas where there is Community responsibility will also have to be negotiated, particularly after the integration, in all fifteen Member States, of the employment chapter, the social protocol and the charter of fundamental rights for employees contained in the Treaty on European Union.
Anyone who wants to have a social market economy will set up alliances, employment alliances in the regions and in the various branches of industry, as well as a permanent dialogue with the social actors.
