Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal takes account of the principle of subsidiarity, on the basis of the experience gained with the aforementioned 1989 proposal, which failed.
So the proposal simply sets out an objective, a framework, and by and large leaves its practical implementation to the Member States.
However, this only minimally attains the objective of ensuring that the shareholders of listed companies will enjoy equal protection in the single market in the event of a takeover.
In view of the very divergent rules on takeover bids in the various Member States, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and my group rightly asked whether a recommendation might not have been more appropriate than a directive.
I personally would have preferred a recommendation, although there were good reasons for the decision to opt for a framework directive.
If we are to avoid distortions of competition and make the stock markets more transparent and give minority shareholders at least minimum protection, we need a minimum of legal certainty.
Given the wide differences between national provisions on takeover bids, this legal certainty can only be achieved by fixing a legal framework of action, however minimal.
The main way to ensure that the individual participants in the stock market act along the same lines is through harmonization and not through voluntary codes of conduct.
In terms of content, the Legal Affairs Committee has made it even clearer that the Commission proposal is a framework directive by nature.
Thus the report contains some amendments that give the Member States even more margin for reverting to their national systems.
The directive goes into some basic points either too briefly or not at all.
They include, for instance, the definition of minority shareholders, the inclusion of concerted action in the scope of the directive and the definition of cases in which the Member States can authorize their supervisory authorities to grant exceptions to the provisions of the directive.
Taking account of the difficulties I have mentioned, I believe the Commission proposal nevertheless deserves our full approval, in the version proposed by the rapporteur.
