Madam President, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, I cannot but endorse your appeal for support in your endeavours, at least on behalf of my own group, although I am sure I speak for every other group too.
I also agree with you that all parties must now signal their determination to make this compromise succeed.
To that end, it must be made perfectly clear both to President Berisha and to the other parties what will happen if it does not succeed.
I assume you have the full backing of Parliament on this point.
Now is certainly not the time for criticism or for asking whether the signs could or could not have been read in time.
But I should like to state briefly that some factors must make us think, must make us wonder why we are suddenly faced with this desolation in the Balkans.
All of us - I say 'us' deliberately, for I do not wish this to be perceived as referring to a handful of people - have relied very heavily on one person.
In other areas of European security policy too, it sometimes happens that, when our interlocutor is a person at the head of the State, a person we can trust, we believe that this is enough to make things happen.
Albania has proved that this is not the case.
I was in Albania myself.
I also spoke to President Berisha.
We really have allowed undiluted capitalism - I might almost say exploitive capitalism - to develop after the dictatorship, in the wake of the most inhuman system seen in Europe in recent times.
The so-called freedom under exploitive capitalism - perhaps even in conjunction with the political system - has ultimately impoverished very many people.
I therefore believe it is time to pursue a preventive policy here.
If I consider the explosive situation that could develop if a spark were to fly towards the neighbouring region of Kosovo, which will also be the subject of a resolution here, Mrs Pack having been there with a delegation a short time ago, it is not only legitimate but also absolutely essential to initiate political intervention and to try and guarantee human rights - which is precisely what have been unable to do in recent years in Albania, as elsewhere - and prevent the emergence of huge floods of refugees.
We are all aware of the suffering this causes, and we all know from our own countries how people's basic attitudes can become a problem when unnecessary influxes of refugees occur.
That is why I believe you have decided on the proper course of action, and we can continue with political intervention if we pursue it vigorously with the support of the entire European continent.
Albania is ablaze and Kosovo is in turmoil.
If the spark flies, there may be nothing left to save.
Let us extinguish the flames of crisis in Albania before it is too late.
