Madam President, in view of the comments which have just been quoted, one can only hope that the Prime Minister's political career will one day be buried underneath this rubbish.
You have asked here today, Mr Santer, where we would be if common sense had prevailed in the past.
Certainly, we would be living in a more democratic, more social and more ecological Europe, instead of in an uncontrolled market and under the rule of technocrats.
However, it is not the task of the European Parliament to bid a sad farewell to common sense, but to demand it and to exact retribution when it is ignored.
Did it really take you 16 deaths and 23 suicides among ruined farmers in the UK, Mr Santer?
Did it really take you the necessary, but nonetheless barbaric destruction of more than a million cattle?
Did it really take you the amount of ECU 10 billion in compensation to realize that there was a lack of common sense in the EU's policy, to discover the need to control economic interests through that policy and to safeguard human dignity?
But common sense has not simply ceased to prevail in Europe - people in positions of responsibility have stopped behaving sensibly.
The Commission too has given economic interests and political considerations priority over common sense.
Who forced the Commission, Mr Santer, against all common sense - and here I quote from the report - to play down the problem of BSE from the outset; to give the beef market priority over human health; to pursue a policy of disinformation which ultimately interfered with the Community's ability to legislate; to ignore the warning voices of scientists; to have blind faith in industry lobbyists?
Who forced the Commission into inefficiency, political weakness, and a policy of concealment and obstruction towards Parliament?
Perhaps it is the fact that, in its heart of hearts, the Commission also believes in and has committed itself to an aggressive neo-liberal ideology.
Is it not true to say that this dominance of economic interests over common sense and human dignity extends across the whole agricultural sector?
Do we not see the same attitude in the brutal imposition of the convergence criteria for entry into monetary union, with its acceptance of escalating unemployment figures, growing poverty and social crises?
Do we not see the same attitude in the Commission's decision to authorize genetically engineered maize, with the same disregard for warning voices and the same subservience to industry?
Do we not see the same attitude in the role played by the Commission at the Intergovernmental Conference, where it has not put forward dynamic proposals on the comprehensive democratization of the EU, the development of a social area in Europe and an ecological alliance?
Make no mistake about it, Mr Santer.
If the Greens are proposing a qualified motion of censure today, it is not because the Commission does not deserve to be censured, but because there was no prospect of us securing the necessary majority, because the failure of such a motion would have been portrayed by you as an acquittal, and because through a qualified motion of censure, we see a slight chance of opening the door for the return of common sense, after its period of exile from the European Union.
