Mr President, this report highlights the need to make progress on working out a participation model in the question of informing and consulting employees in the co-determination process.
Flexibility, pragmatic negotiation solutions and the introduction of necessary minimum standards will play a major role in this in view of the present very different European systems.
At a time when questions of the single market and globalisation reveal the most different framework conditions to be met by employees, acceptable framework regulations are even more necessary than ever.
Today's international economy shows ruthlessly how capital moves and is concentrated, how it vanishes, what it exploits and who becomes the pawn of this new flexibility.
The biggest problem here is that in these international processes, in these international mechanisms basic human and trade union rights are circumvented and infringed.
In this context we must also think beyond the frontiers of Europe.
We must do that in order to see more clearly.
I know full well that we cannot regulate everything, nor indeed try to do so.
But a harmonious social community demands democratic consultation and co-determination models when the existential substance of individual workers is at stake, because in the final analysis it is on that that the plurality of our society and the creation of our democratic system depends.
The lack of a European company statute which, for example provides for stronger involvement of employees, means a waste of resources on both sides and leads of course to considerable costs on the economic side.
That is something we must constantly bear in mind.
It is precisely in that context that we must reiterate that the lack of a European company statute must be regarded as a deficiency because in my opinion such a statute could also provide the incentive for investments and so employment.
The Commission's expert group which is charged with preparing recommendations for co-determination models by April must not be allowed to remain solely a platform for debate but should also give the necessary impetus for action.
Here it is important that the European solution adopted does not allow any escape for any company from countries with stricter regulations.
Otherwise we would only need to start talking about de-regulation downwards and that surely cannot be the credo of our action.
To sum up, the Menrad report in my view contains reasonable proposals on how the objective of co-determination can be reached and it also points out the risks of inaction in this matter.
A refusal to have co-determination is the most expensive wrong investment for the economy.
That is something we must never forget.
