Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, since 1990 the European Union has had the strictest legislation on biotechnology anywhere in the world.
Some Member States have been even more stringent when transposing these European rules into their own legislation.
In my view this caution was justified.
But meanwhile we have gained worldwide experience in the use of biotechnology.
The stringent rules in Europe are increasingly proving to be an obstacle to Europe's position in terms of research and applying the research findings.
Let me give a clear example: a European industrial undertaking, a chemical firm, has 26 research and development establishments, of which 6 are in the European Union, 20 in North and South America, South Africa and the Far East.
Genetic engineering is one of the most important key technologies for the next century and has broad applications in medicine, pharmaceutics, agriculture, food production and the environment.
Genetic engineering and its innovations will have a decisive effect on every country's economic development in the decades to come.
The 1990 directive on the contained use of genetically modified micro-organisms was based on the scientific knowledge of the 1980s.
Our group fully supports the Commission's aims in the proposed amended directive of reducing unnecessary bureaucracy - and I mean unnecessary - while at the same time ensuring the necessary precautions and safety measures.
That includes adapting the system of classification to existing international practice and revising the technical annexes, which are no longer up to date.
Instead of two there will now be four classes of risk, which will make it much easier to assess the risks and take the necessary protective measures.
My group considers it particularly important that the European Parliament will in future be involved fully in any major changes to the directive.
If the risks can be controlled, as has been shown in the past 20 years, I think it is also our responsibility as Christians to look into the chances offered by genetic engineering and to use this technology in a responsible manner.
