Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE Group supports the report by Mrs Dybkjær on the subject of sustainable development.
Unfortunately, the Rio Conference has so far produced very few really positive results.
This situation has to change, and I am pleased to say that we agree on that here in the House.
For example, if the production of CO2 continues throughout the world as indicated in the last five years, the result will be an economic, humanitarian and environmental disaster.
The argument which is often put forward - that the European Union is not in a position to solve this problem throughout the world, because of course we are not responsible for all the CO2 emissions, and there are high rates of increase in India or China, for example - is unacceptable, although it is a comfortable argument if one wishes to do nothing.
If we, as major industrialized nations, cannot manage to reduce our emissions of CO2 and other harmful substances, then those who are campaigning for environment policy in the newly industrialized and developing countries will have no chance of success.
We must therefore act as a positive role model, and more should be done in this respect.
At the same time, however, we must act intelligently.
I always put it dramatically and say that we do not need to go back to living in caves, but must use modern technology to cut down on CO2 and other harmful substances.
Only then can we be a real model, because the people in the developing countries would also like to achieve prosperity, and we have to show that - with modern technology - sustainable development, prosperity and conservation of the environment are all possible.
I believe - and once again this is a very current issue, which was discussed yesterday by the Commission - that fiscal measures are also needed for this purpose.
The Commission's proposal for an energy tax is a weak one, but it is at least a step in the right direction, and the European Union should at last begin to take some action here!
