Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission proposal is designed to cushion the effects of the far-reaching and necessary structural adjustment measures.
We must ensure the continuity and completion of this necessary adjustment process.
We are concerned with structural problems in Greece and Spain, and in particular in Germany, in the Land of Mecklenburg-Vorpommern.
I briefly described the dramatic background to this question when I advocated urgency yesterday, and the radical structural changes and adjustment processes that are taking place in the span of just a few years.
What is important about the present situation, however, is that the current difficulties cannot be blamed on those they affect, the shipyard workers.
They have not received any of the aid.
This shameful situation is currently being fully investigated by several committees of inquiry and by the public prosecutors in Bremen, Bonn and Schwerin.
The fact that funds were misused has been known for months and the Commission has also given a very precise and responsible account of this.
The Commission proposal contains all the important facts and it is hardly likely that any more information will come to light as a result of further intensive investigations by the European Parliament, e.g. by setting up a committee of inquiry as suggested by Mr Donnelly yesterday.
All that would do is to delay the necessary structural adjustments.
But any delay would only increase the existing uncertainty.
Any delay will make the envisaged privatization more difficult.
Any delay will be bad for business and any delay will jeopardize jobs.
Instead, those concerned should be given a chance to complete their on-going structural adjustments as quickly as possible.
We cannot allow those who have been robbed then to be punished too.
What kind of logic is that?
Are those who have been harmed already to suffer even more disadvantages?
Just imagine a similar situation in your own private life and you will soon realise how absurd this proposal is, how absurd it would be for the Commission proposal to be rejected!
If we do not grant rapid aid, then in my view we will be penalizing those concerned even further, and that is bound to meet with incomprehension outside Parliament and to discredit our Parliament.
So I warmly ask you to approve the Commission's very responsible proposal.
