Mr President, the Irish presidency was right to highlight the successes that have been achieved in preparing for monetary union.
They are to be welcomed.
At last, we can appreciate how great the international impact of monetary union is going to be, because we need a stable monetary framework at international level too, after the collapse of the Bretton Woods system.
We cannot allow speculators to gain a stranglehold on our economies, any more than we can leave trade and the economy entirely to market forces.
So the conference in Singapore was certainly a success as regards the further opening-up of markets and making further progress towards deregulation.
In our view, however, a great deal still remains to be done - and not least by the European Union - if the demands which Parliament has made are to be pursued with vigour.
In particular, more progress is needed on achieving fair international trade.
Our system of rules is far too underdeveloped, not only in the area of social and environmental standards, but also in relation to the way in which international competition operates.
We cannot adopt legislation against monopolies and cartels within the European Union, and then at the same time allow such cartels and monopolies at international level and offer them stability.
That is why we need a system of international competition that will help to make fair international trade a reality.
The same is true in the other area to which I referred.
Europe must speak with a single voice here - something which it failed to do in Singapore.
A presidency and a Commission cannot achieve anything when it becomes clear in Singapore that the European Union is divided on the question of rules in this area.
Progress must be made here.
We cannot steer a course on the basis that free international trade will continue to be successful and contribute to the growth of national economies because it is based on exploiting human beings and despoiling nature and resources.
We cannot simply now set aside the Lyons employment summit.
I can only take a cynical view of the declarations by the G7 Heads of State and Government on exploiting the opportunities offered by globalization, when people and the planet are the victims of such a policy.
That is why we need what GATT and the WTO have always sought to achieve: fair international trade, governed by rules, on the lines that we in the European Parliament have always advocated.
