Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is unfortunate that the rapporteur is not present for the continuation of the debate this afternoon.
However, I would not have congratulated her, since her report is not as good as others have made it out to be.
In fact, it contains a great many contradictions.
I should like to thank the Commission for a good and generally realistic annual economic report.
The criticism of Mr de Silguy is unjustified, since ultimately it is the Member States which are responsible for economic and financial policies.
The Commission cannot be blamed for the Member States' failings in their entirety.
As many speakers have already pointed out, Europe's main problem is high unemployment - structural as well as cyclical.
Increased growth alone will not be sufficient to remedy these structural shortcomings.
It is certainly needed to create new jobs, but it is not enough.
As the Commissioner rightly indicates in his report, Europe has opted to take an unequivocal free-market course.
Through the single market programme, the Maastricht Treaty and EMU, clear and promising ways to improve the competitiveness of European jobs have been set out.
Key objectives are to establish the free movement of goods, services and persons; to enhance Europe's competitiveness through the liberalization and privatization of important sectors such as telecommunications, transport, postal services and energy; and to extend the trans-European networks, for which the funds are still lacking.
Other important goals are to rein in the State and reduce state responsibilities - a matter covered by the Maastricht Treaty - and also to fight inflation and achieve the convergence of monetary and financial policies.
A currency's domestic stability is ensured in particular by a low rate of inflation.
Europe can boast a number of successes in this respect.
We are agreed - and the portrayal of EMU in the report is therefore accurate - that we can achieve the introduction of the euro, the launching of stage three, without relaxing the criteria and by interpreting them in accordance with the Treaty.
However, what we certainly cannot do - and here Mrs RandzioPlath's report contradicts itself - is take remedial action in the form of short-term, Keynesian anti-cyclical programmes designed to stimulate economic activity, which merely produce a flash in the pan in the wrong places.
On the contrary, we must eliminate structural shortcomings in the right places, as indicated by Mr Fourçans in his speech and amendments, for example by regarding public investment not as a substitute for, but as the basis of, private activity.
Above all, we must promote the flexibility of the labour market and eliminate the problems in the internal market - the remaining barriers to trade, for instance - as soon as possible.
I would therefore urge you, Commissioner, to stay on the right track and carry on with your policies as you began.
