Mr President, it is of course a pleasure once again to be discussing novel foods with my fellow Members and with Commissioner Bangemann.
Mr Bangemann, we have had many opportunities to fence with each other in the past, and indeed we have assured each other, more or less indirectly, of our mutual esteem.
What I do find a little disappointing is that in the supplement on novel food and on novel food legislation I have the impression that you, all of a sudden, as the representative of the Commission, might be a bad loser.
One reason I find that disappointing is that I have made a mistake in my own judgement of human nature - I took you for a pragmatist, a stubborn one certainly but still a pragmatist.
The things I have heard the Commission say in the past, and my own experiences too, suggest to me just this: you, Mr Bangemann, know as well as I do, as a properly trained lawyer, that a Regulation must be implemented.
In the text of the Regulation adopted by the mediation committee - and nothing could be more democratic than that in the European Union nowadays - it says that it is possible for the Commission to issue implementing provisions.
It is also perfectly within its rights if it chooses not to.
But if it exercised that option, then its duty would be to ensure that this legislation is applied in the Union.
You can't have this both ways.
Either the Member States do it for themselves, in which case the Commission issues an instruction, and says what it wants to some extent, or the Commission does it, and that is why I hope to hear you say this evening that the Commission is indeed working on implementing provisions.
In that case, though, just to be difficult, I shall ask you why you didn't do that work back in early May, since the regulation came into force on 15 May, and I shall moan and groan a bit more and say you could have known, it's nothing new after all.
But I shall be satisfied if I hear you say that you feel certain that, in the light of the conclusions of the mediation committee, consumers now have the right to receive comprehensive information on genetically modified foods when they differ from conventional foods, and not just in the accumulation of all the things they will find in the regulation, when nutritional value, nutritive characteristics and many other things are taken together.
That is not cumulative, otherwise it is an alternative, and the text of the law says that quite clearly.
I am also perfectly willing to have it checked by the Court of Justice.
Even though I, as a politician and a lawyer, certainly do not take the view that the Court of Justice should be making policy.
I should like to hear you say today, Mr Bangemann, that you are working on implementing provisions.
If you can't tell me that, then I should like you to tell me how the Member States are supposed to label these foods clearly, and I should also like to hear - and I must admit that I still have a deep and unshaken confidence in your good intentions - that no labelling will be allowed that can mislead the consumer.
I am far from being the sort of person who declaims against genetic engineering - quite the reverse.
I believe that genetic engineering offers huge possibilities, but I also believe that if food is genetically modified it must not be labelled 'produced by modern biotechnological methods' .
I know that there are some Member States that want that.
But I hope that you will support the European Parliament in preventing anything of the kind, and I confess that even this late in the day I should be glad to hear something to that effect from you.
