Mr President, I should like to begin by condemning the acts of violence by the Bosnian Croats in the strongest terms.
Secondly, I would expect anyone who can exert any influence on those responsible for this conduct or misconduct to do so immediately.
Thirdly, I would also expect the perpetrators to be punished and removed from office.
However, I would also like to draw attention to the fact that present events in Mostar can trace their origin back to errors committed at Dayton and particularly to the recognition of the so-called Republika Srpska, from which the Serbs today infer that they have nothing to do with Bosnia Herzegovina.
And that has made it very difficult for the Bosnian Croats to renounce Herceg-Bosna.
Secondly, I would call attention to the fact that Sarajevo is becoming more and more of a Muslim city, making it difficult for non-Muslims to enjoy equal rights there.
We should similarly be aware of both these facts, and ensure that this does not constantly give rise to further protest campaigns in Mostar.
Thirdly, I would like to say that the weak attitude of the European Union's contact group regarding the maintenance of Bosnia-Herzegovina as a multiethnic entity, as laid down at Dayton, is to be condemned.
The consequence of it is that other Dayton signatories, Croatia and Serbia to be specific, are also less than totally committed to implementing the Dayton Agreement as quickly as possible.
Fourthly, I should like to point out that those in the region who are standing by Dayton, meaning those who want to let the refugees return home and are actually doing so, should receive swift and really visible support.
They must be allowed to expect that their Dayton-style good deeds really will be crowned with success, that it is visible, that they receive their reward.
That is the only way in which we shall be able eventually to persuade others to do what they actually promised to do by signing - observing the provisions of the Dayton Agreement.
Ladies and gentlemen, while it remains impossible - in Brcko, in Mostar, in the Republika Srpska and in many places in the Muslim-Croat Federation - for refugees really to return, and as long as we are unable to name a day by which the refugees must be allowed back, we shall continue having difficulties.
We have had good experience of deadlines in the European Union.
We have one at the moment, for the euro.
I think that in the case of Dayton, as well, we should try to set a deadline by which the refugees must be returned, because only the return of the refugees can enable reconstruction aid to bear fruit and peace to be restored.
