Mr President, the European Parliament has already dealt quite often in the past, as it is doing today in particular, with the question of how the European Union can assume its responsibilities in energy policy in the long term and take the appropriate measures, which are of course urgently necessary to create the framework conditions in a liberalized internal market.
In that respect, there are no differences of view between the EPP Group and the other groups regarding the basic structure and the line to be followed.
At the same time we have to consider even at this point what we really want to achieve in terms of a common energy policy and a shopping list like the one the Commission has proposed and which Parliament will probably extend tomorrow does nobody any service.
Of course our objective is to reduce CO2 emissions in the EU.
We have all just been discussing that in relation to the Rothe report and also adopted it.
But the freedom to decide which energy sources will be used to achieve this objective remains with the Member States so long as we have no other legal basis.
That question also arose this morning and at noon when we voted on the Soulier report.
We come now to the crucial point.
It may indeed be possible to change the legal basis - I would not exclude it, but I am an engineer and not a lawyer - and that may also give Parliament more influence because there will be cooperation and we can work with the chosen legal basis.
But we would achieve nothing at the final count because this is more likely to lead the Council to withdraw the existing legal bases from us again when it notices that other things can be done via the back door instead of us obtaining the new legal bases we want and have just decided on.
The EPP Group will therefore reject any amendment of the legal basis and the report as a whole if this amendment is adopted by a majority.
Moreover, we must of course ask ourselves what the Union's priority tasks are in the field of energy.
We consider it crucial to harmonize the framework conditions, an aspect for which the Commission made no provision at all in its proposal but which the EPP Group proposed in committee and which was fortunately incorporated.
That is the crucial point.
Here the Commission already has competences and Parliament supports this because it can be done through the internal market legislation.
The last point I want to raise is that we really ought to have a basic debate on this whole question of taxes one day.
There is no point in Parliament starting to bring in fiscal law questions again.
In any case we would then be moving towards another legal basis again, Article 130 would not apply.
We should leave things where they belong.
I do not want to go into this further today.
But we should not put too much strain on the Council here if we really want to achieve anything.
That is the line the EPP takes; otherwise we will support most of the amendments.
