Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two minutes' speaking time is not a lot, and therefore I should just like to examine two points with regard to this important report by Mr Fabra Vallés, whom I should like, moreover, to congratulate most warmly on his hard work.
I should also, however, like to thank Mrs Wemheuer for the discussion that took place in our committee on this whole series of problems, a discussion that will have to be continued.
I support here views on the subject.
Now for the points I wish to raise: firstly, does this report, based on the special report by the Court of Auditors, mean that the Commission is now in a position to examine carefully the serious irregularities that have emerged in the decentralized administration of the MED programmes, and in particular to put a stop to the conflicts of interest that have been shown to exist?
Community resources that have been wrongly paid out must be put back into the EU coffers.
However, we also believe, at the same time, that the current suspension of these programmes, ordered by the Commission, subject to certain conditions in line with budget organization and the relevant provisions, can now be lifted.
It is therefore important that we should approve this report by Mr Fabra, because in six months' time the Commission is due to report to us again on the measures it has introduced - and that includes disciplinary measures as well.
The second aspect that I should like to emphasize is what Mr Fabra Vallés says in Point 10 of his motion for a resolution, in which the Committee on Budgetary Control demands that the EU should have its own independent anti-fraud unit.
The emphasis is on the word 'independent' , because we already have an anti-fraud unit.
This antifraud unit, UCLAF, does some good and successful work.
I would just remind you of the exposure of the recent deceptions that were practised with regard to BSE meat.
However, it is almost inevitable that it will be accused of being biased, because it is part of the Commission.
It is also exposed to the risk that it will be accused either of playing down the whole affair in order to damage the Commission's reputation as little as possible, or, above all, of arguing against and introducing measures to the detriment of the external advisers.
Therefore we need independence here, as well as the possibility of introducing measures under criminal law, which can then be implemented by the national courts, in order to put an end, finally to the misuse of, and fraudulent practices involving, the EU's financial resources.
Once again I should like to thank the rapporteur for his hard work within the committee, and I should also like to thank the secretariat of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
