Mr President, a European policy which hopes to claim by right that it wants to put man at the centre of the information society must see man in all his many different roles and interests.
It is about man as an employee, and it is also about man as a citizen.
In the opinion of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Green Paper takes too little account of the latter aspect.
As the draftsman of the opinion, therefore, I must emphasize the following requirements to be met by any future policy for the creation of the information society.
The applications of information and communications technologies which make things easier for the citizen in his everyday life, in his dealings with the authorities and in his democratic involvement, must be enhanced, and more must be done to promote them.
Unfortunately, there is too little evidence of this in the documents available to date.
Unfortunately, too, we cannot help noticing that public services, such as legal information services, are lagging behind the private ones, and that entertainment pays better than useful information for the citizen.
A second central requirement of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is that the information society should be provided with a stable legal framework and that a higher degree of legal security should be guaranteed for all participants.
We know that there are a great number of directives and legislative projects in preparation in this area, and we believe it is high time that some of them were implemented as rapidly as possible.
They certainly include the sector of distance working, but, equally certainly, they also include questions of consumer protection, questions of security in payment transactions, copyright and many more.
A third central requirement to be met by the future legal order for the information society is that it should take greater account of the convergence of the information and communications technology media, which will result in the future mediamatic society, to guarantee an integrated policy for all media and services, and - this is particularly to be regarded as an appeal to the Member States - the further discussion of a centralized European telecommunications authority.
