Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal for the recognition of qualifications in respect of the professional activities covered by the directive on liberalization and transitional measures is to be welcomed.
To be quite honest, I wonder how this long title is supposed to be comprehensible to all those members of the general public who are affected by it.
We often speak a language here that many people cannot understand at all, and people often do not realise that proposals of this kind are actually to their advantage.
In spite of this, I support this proposal, and especially the remarks made by the previous speakers.
There are two gentlemen here, but so far they have not said anything on this subject.
One has the feeling, therefore, that this is really a subject that is only of interest to women, but that is not true.
I believe that, especially in a Europe of citizens, where freedom of movement plays a very important role, at least on paper, but also in our thoughts, it is absolutely essential that we should remove the obstacles that hinder this freedom of movement.
For the different qualification requirements of our education systems, and the often difficult mutual recognition of qualifications and professional experience, are preventing professional people from practising their profession and becoming established in another European country.
Therefore the directive that we are discussing, on the recognition of qualifications, is intended to help to make such recognition easier and quicker.
From conversations with people who are affected - and I have many such conversations in my region - I know that many people who are currently unemployed would actually be prepared to work in another region, but they do not know how to set about it, because they have a very large number of obstacles to overcome before they are actually able to work in another region.
I think it is important that we should deal with this question, so that people who have a qualification can go to another country.
I myself did so, twenty-five years ago, and I could recite you a long list of the problems that I encountered in doing so.
I hope that we are able to clear up these problems, and that in future a Europe of citizens will be constructed, in which the European concept really is firmly established in the minds of all the people.
