Madam President, in the debate on the merits of non-conventional medicine as opposed to conventional medicine, the issues of a lack of humanity and the decline of the relationship of trust between doctor and patient are repeatedly brought up.
I wish to emphasize in the strongest possible terms here that humanity, trust and personal commitment depend not on the method of treatment, but entirely on the person carrying out the treatment - in other words, the doctor or therapist.
The clear and unequivocal demand set out in recital J of the report for clinical trials and comprehensive, scientific tests of effectiveness to be adopted as a prerequisite for the recognition of non-conventional medical disciplines is very much to be welcomed.
If the conclusions of a series of tests carried out in this way prove positive, then a method of treatment will have fulfilled the requirements of conventional medicine for verifiable and comprehensible operating mechanisms.
The rush to embrace new, alternative therapies whose effectiveness is so far only partly proven is misguided.
It would be more appropriate to test these new approaches and therapies fully and rigorously within the context of a tried and tested medical tradition, with a view to integrating those which prove successful into conventional medicine as soon as possible, so as to hold out to conventional medicine - which in the last few years has perhaps become too technical and equipment-oriented - the prospect of a more humane form of medicine, which views people as a whole and builds on their powers of self-healing.
Finally, I should like to refer to the financial aspect of this question.
The treatments that we are all paying for dearly with our contributions must have demonstrably positive effects.
We owe this fundamental quality assurance not only to patients, but also to taxpayers.
For example, the president of the German Association of Health Service Doctors said in this context yesterday that it is unacceptable for all and sundry to practise Tibetan drumming or meditative Ikebana at the expense of the insured community as a whole, simply because they once did one insured person some good!
That is not enough for them to be recognized as therapies and receive financial support.
