Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the response to the White Paper has been for the most part positive.
Especially at this time of unemployment in Europe, especially among the young, the education debate has taken on a particularly serious significance.
Sue Waddington's report, on which I offer my sincere congratulations and my thanks for the pleasure of working with her, is particularly valuable because it takes account of the EU's latest studies of education policy, which indicate that even in the EU countries the standard of education leaves something to be desired, that public expenditure on education is falling, and that although better training does increase individual educational opportunities it is still far from being a guarantee of a job.
The conclusions of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media concentrate on three points in particular.
The first is finance.
Susan Waddington also touches on this point in her report, when she says that the cost neutrality referred to in the White Paper must on no account be allowed to set a trend, because the SOCRATES and LEONARDO programmes are already underfunded, and that additional financial resources should imperatively be made available.
Secondly, the committee calls upon the Commission to rethink its present action plan and to include other aspects, beginning with lifelong learning and extending to measures to combat social marginalization.
This certainly does not relate only to the school of the second chance, but especially to basic and further training programmes, integration models, active learning, consideration for the disadvantaged, the role of teachers, and educational and vocational advisory services.
All of this must be included, as must the learning of foreign languages.
Our committee has given particular attention to this, and requests that not only the EU languages should be included.
Education and training cannot be left to the efforts of the individual but are a function of government.
The State takes the primary responsibility for them.
This is the only way of avoiding a split in European society between the informed and the ignorant.
