Mr President, Austria has had very strict and very progressive legislation on chemicals since 1985.
During the accession negotiations Austria was specifically assured that it could keep this legislation for a transitional period, with the promise of very careful consideration as to whether the other EU states could not also adopt these high standards, so that Austria would not have to lower its own ones.
We were given that assurance.
So we were all the more surprised, Commissioner, at what the Commission then proposed!
Surely it would have been only natural for the Commission to submit a document containing all the stricter Austrian provisions.
What Parliament or even the Council then did to it would have been another matter.
Yet the Commission did not even consider it necessary to incorporate them in its draft!
Even stranger was the explanation in committee as to why it did not do so.
The Commission told us: ' We asked the other Member States whether they might not be prepared to adopt the Austrian standards.'
So who did the Commission speak to?
To a minister, to an official, or to some secretary?
And in what form did it speak to them?
Did it write to them, or just make a few phone calls?
At any rate I consider this behaviour quite out of order!
I could now say as an Austrian that I don't care, that after Amsterdam we certainly do not have to suspend our legislation.
But I shall not do so, for I am now an MEP and I am concerned about how that would look in Europe!
After all, we keep hearing from Amsterdam how important environmental protection is - top priority is given to sustainability in the economic sector too!
Very important, Commissioner!
We certainly hear that message, only we are gradually not believing it any more.
For whenever it comes to practicalities, when it comes to implementing things, the Commission at least recoils.
I very much hope the European Parliament will not recoil and that tomorrow we will approve the content of those amendments, which have in part already been law in Austria for the last ten years.
