Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, almost nobody, scarcely a single one of these 370 million citizens of the European Union whom we claim to represent, knows that there is a Community transit system and that it is not working.
We must recognize that.
We must bear it in mind.
Nevertheless, although no-one knows that it is not working, these 370 million citizens are well aware of the threat to themselves that results from the failure of the system.
As Mr Kellett-Bowman said, the main beneficiaries of the system have been criminals, and Pauline Green said this morning in the debate marking the 40th anniversary of the Treaty of Rome that disillusionment with the way the European Union operates is growing.
The feeling of being threatened, unprotected, of being deprived in one way or another of social and economic security, and even of physical security, by this Europe jeopardizes the development and future of our European Union and endangers its very existence.
In this broad panorama the fraud that is occurring within the Community transit system is but one small feature.
Yet it is a tile in the overall mosaic, and we should see it within this political context and treat it with due seriousness.
What I am about to say is not intended to absolve anyone of responsibility, least of all the Council and not the Commission either.
But the criticism we have made today - thorough, competent, based on 15 months of hard work - would surely be more credible in the eyes and ears of the European public if we included ourselves, this Parliament, the 'High House' , as we like to call it in German, in this criticism.
The question is, ladies and gentlemen - and it is perhaps an advantage to be asking it now, when there are at least a few more ears listening - have we taken the matter seriously?
Have we said that this system was conceived for six Member States, but now there are 15, with more to come?
Have we asked the questions that need to be asked?
No!
Of course we can criticize the Commission and the Council for not having asked these questions.
We do not take back one jot of that criticism.
But we should have been asking them, and if others fail to act, it is our responsibility to do so.
Commissioner Monti, you referred to the link between Customs 2000 and the committee of inquiry, and I know that the entire body of experts in this domain recognizes that link.
But have we as a Parliament taken that seriously?
Did we conduct the debate on Customs 2000 with due diligence and care?
So did we do that?
No, we did not!
In point of fact, we had to fight to get it on the agenda at all!
That is the problem.
We did not grasp the whole picture.
To the 38 recommendations made by the committee, which I fully endorse, I should like to add one more.
We are the European Parliament, and we wish to be regarded as such.
So let us please act in such a way that we can hold up our heads.
We sometimes treat our resolutions as if we were no longer responsible for them from the minute they leave the House.
But we bear responsibility, and that can be clearly expressed through the work of a committee of inquiry.
Nevertheless, it must also be expressed in our daily work, and we must take ourselves more seriously so that others will also take us more seriously, which will also lend more weight to any criticism we make of the Council and the Commission.
Madam President, allow me to finish on a personal note.
Commissioner Monti, during the meetings of the committee of inquiry I criticized you very directly and sometimes very sharply.
Since this criticism was public and is now being further publicized, I should like to apologize for those aspects of it that offended you.
I do not take back any of the substance of my criticism - on the contrary - but the manner in which you have spoken today, the change you have demonstrated, proving that such developments are possible, has won my deep respect, and I wanted to tell you that today.
