Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Nordmann has just told us that the only way to fight racism and xenophobia is by putting a stop to illegal immigration.
I have rarely heard such rubbish!
I come from a country where Hitler collected 43 % of the votes in 1933, and we had no illegal immigration in Germany then!
But what we did have in Germany then was a vast economic imbalance and a vastly unjust distribution of economic resources.
And that is what we have today in the European Union between the population groups and the social classes, and it is what we have, for example, in the relations between this Union and the southern hemisphere or eastern Europe.
Those are the causes of the pressure of immigration upon the European Union, pressure which is being massively exploited by the ladies and gentlemen on the Right for their own unpleasant purposes.
Let me just say one thing to Mr Vanhecke: when he says he no longer gets het up about anything, that's not news to us.
And when he says he welcomes the electoral victory of Bruno Mégret, we even believe him.
Except that Mr Mégret has not won an electoral victory, because Mr Mégret was not allowed to stand for election at all, because Mr Mégret is a criminal who was not allowed to stand!
His wife won the election.
Over on that side of the House there are always characters making out they have nothing to hide.
They have more skeletons in their cupboards than the rest of this Parliament put together!
I say that again, unambiguously.
And as for you, Mr Berthu, your ranks include a whole bunch of people with long criminal records, sitting here pretending to be the crème de la crème of European politics.
I just have one thing to say to you, Mr Berthu: the only good thing about Mr Vanhecke is that he freely admits being a fascist and a racist.
As for what you have said here, my only comment on that is this: if I can read Le Pen like a book I can read you like a paperback!
I really feel I have to say that.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, as I spoke so quickly to start with I am going to add another ten seconds on the end.
There is a very important point that we have not yet mentioned today, the fact that this whole debate we are holding, which to some extent was forced upon us by the far Right, completely overlooks one point.
There are victims of racism in the European Union - Mrs Roth has pointed that out - everyday victims, and I wonder where people like Mr Nordmann...
(The President cut off the speaker)
