Mr President, my group is totally against the use of hormones and against imports of meat from the USA that has been treated with hormones.
We do not want the stuff!
We do not need it!
We are supported in this by the majority of European farmers and the majority of European consumers.
We have nothing against commercial interests in principle, but we are against commercial interests being defended to the detriment of the financial and commercial interests of the farmers of Europe!
And we are also against this being done to the detriment of consumer health.
I believe the Commission must take a hard line.
It may be unable to say anything more at this stage for procedural and strategic reasons; here we in Parliament are in a better position.
We can and we will table a strongly worded resolution tomorrow and I am convinced that Parliament will adopt it with hardly any votes against.
The Americans, or perhaps I should say the American chemical and agricultural multinationals, are adopting an arrogant, nationalistic and insolent stance.
They are trying to impose their ideas about agricultural production and food on us.
We have to resist that.
There is no culture without agriculture!
If there is some other culture in America, then let them live with it, we do not want it!
We assert our right to develop and continue developing our own food culture, and it does not include hormones.
Mr Bangemann, I am calling on the Commission to evolve a strategy directed not just at the panel but also at the forthcoming WTO negotiations.
These considerations must be given their due place in the new agreements; for consumer and health reasons we must be able to reject certain things.
The various states and organizations must also have the right to take their own decisions and should not be forced by others to follow a line they do not agree with.
I do not think it necessary that our children should reach puberty earlier than they used to because of the use of sex hormones.
Mrs Roth-Behrendt rightly pointed out that no long-term studies exist on the subject.
That is why we must strongly resist this and not allow it in the long term either!
