Mr President, the Green Group in the European Parliament has never regarded the organization of the market in bananas as an ideal solution, but it did at least provide an opportunity for supporting a type of agriculture based on small holdings.
In the ACP countries and the EU, bananas are cultivated mainly by small and medium-sized growers, not on vast plantations like those in Honduras and Guatemala.
Unfortunately, the organization of the market in bananas was used to trigger cut-throat competition between major fruit importers and corporate interests in Europe and elsewhere.
The quota system led to a situation in which quotas were being artificially inflated before deadlines and a flourishing trade in licences had sprung up.
The government of Ecuador was quite justified in complaining that the system of issuing licences cost banana growers in Ecuador millions of dollars, because entitlements to import licences were being transferred to privileged multinational corporations.
Licences should not be issued to importers, but should go instead to the producer countries.
We have often argued in favour of a 'fair-trade' quota for bananas.
As part of the European Community's organization of the market in bananas, a specific quota should be reserved for fruit that is grown under specific social and environmental conditions.
In its resolution of November 1996 on trade and the environment, Parliament took up this demand.
Now the WTO has rejected the Community regime.
This verdict from the panel is only the first in a series of WTO rulings that threaten environmental and consumer protection in the EU.
In its next ruling, published at the end of last week, the WTO rejected the import ban on hormone-treated meat from the USA.
In that case, the USA was the main plaintiff - as with the organization of the market in bananas, even though US banana production amounts to no more than 8000 tonnes.
The US corporate lobby drafted the complaint to the WTO in detail and followed its progress through the panel negotiations in Geneva.
The WTO must amend its rules so as to give a hearing to weaker parties, developing countries and the environmental lobby.
I have almost finished, Mr President.
If it fails to do so, it will become - as Sir Leon Brittan clearly admitted at yesterday's meeting of the Committee on External Economic Relations - nothing more than a tool of the USA and the economically powerful countries against the rest of the world.
And in fact, that is how it looks today.
