Madam President, after what we have heard from the Commission and the Council I am not exactly tempted to conjure up visions of the unity of Europe.
Their speeches, with their blind, small-minded pragmatism, their timidity and their technocratic thinking, are far removed indeed from the historic challenge of unifying Europe.
Even so, I believe that this Intergovernmental Conference will have to be measured in terms of that historic aspect.
And I believe that we, too, in this House will also have to be measured against it.
If we are agreed that we want to build Europe as a house founded on democracy and civil rights, then we must recognize that this Intergovernmental Conference has done nothing to strengthen the foundations of that house.
The foundations become more fragile: starting with the rights of Europol and then with the lack of codecision, the lack of basic rights and the lack of any democratic structure for this technocratic assemblage.
If we are agreed that the engineering principles by which the house must be built are social cohesion in society and fair shares in prosperity for all, then this Intergovernmental Conference has done nothing to improve that engineering.
In the face of mass unemployment, rising poverty and a deepening divide between rich and poor, the instruments that this Intergovernmental Conference has offered us are incapable of strengthening this engineering.
If we are agreed that the central pillar of this European house should be peace throughout Europe, not a military pact, then the thinking that the President of the Commission has put forward here is misguided.
To hear the way you have spoken here, President Santer, I feel you may be unable to imagine that Europe can play a leading role in the world without a military presence.
But this Europe has already built on that very idea in the case of coal and steel, the idea of unity without military force and unity through peace.
And if we are agreed that this European house is being built not for a political elite but for Europe's own citizens, then I ask you this: where are the citizens to find any spark of enthusiasm for Europe when they consider the results of this Intergovernmental Conference?
If Parliament is to represent the citizens for whom this European house is being built, then it must act energetically today to counter the timidity and pragmatism of this conference.
