Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mrs M端ller not only for her report, but also for the thorough and unremitting way in which she has attended to the concerns of the common foreign and security policy, especially in the former Yugoslavia.
She is very committed to her work there, and unfortunately the true message about this commitment is not being properly reflected in the contribution being made here today.
The report itself was worthy of discussion, but was not controversial.
It was supported by all Groups in the Committee on Budgetary Control and I hope that the lack of debate is not seen as a lack of interest, for that would indeed be regrettable.
The report again demonstrates something which we have also seen elsewhere.
It obviously has to do mainly with aspects of budgetary control and auditing, but ultimately the problems which Mrs M端ller mentions in her report conceal far-reaching and fundamental political questions and it would be good if Members of this House, including those outside the Committee on Budgetary Control, could just give this matter some attention.
The common foreign and security policy is a major undertaking and many more people than we sometimes think are hoping to get something out of this common European policy.
Many also believe that this common foreign and defence policy is much further developed than is actually the case.
But grand projects of this kind are often followed by that morning-after feeling when it comes to their actual implementation.
These problems will of course be dealt with primarily in a report from the Court of Auditors.
Lack of clear jurisdiction - a problem already mentioned by the rapporteur -, clashes of interest and confusion over the main objectives as well as over tasks which actually lie within the remit of the common development policy - all these problems make it difficult, and not only from the point of view of budget control, to say "yes' and to say "yes' unreservedly.
And underlying all this are also political implications and these too are problems which we will have to deal with.
The criticism which has been voiced is, as has been said, not that of an accountant declaring that individual bookkeeping items are difficult to separate.
We need greater transparency and clarity so that the figures can be examined more easily.
It is therefore much more a political criticism, to the effect that if we no longer know who is responsible for what, if we no longer know who decides what, then the whole system will be extremely difficult to assess.
It will then be well nigh impossible to support decisions, since a decision viewed externally can only be approved or rejected, and from our point of view defended when it is attacked, when one knows what lies behind it.
To this extent the clash of interests, the simultaneousness, which Mrs M端ller touches on in her report and which has also been criticized by the Court of Auditors, is more than a question of the clear separation of the finances, more than a matter of finding a different way to regulate the financing and the control of this financing.
I would ask you to bear in mind that the Common Foreign and Security Policy is also our coat of arms, a coat of arms which the European Union displays to the world.
If there is confusion, if there is a lack of transparency, then let us carry out an internal examination of our budgetary control procedure, but you must see that the confusion which we find in this area is a sign, a symptom of a more far-reaching disarray, and this may well be seen around the world, even by people who do not even know that there is a Committee for Budgetary Control or even a European Court of Auditors.
If this confusion, this lack of transparency, should give rise to a loss of credibility, then this will not be directed at our financial control procedure but will impact upon the political standing of the European Union.
In this respect I would ask Mrs M端ller just to carry on exactly as she has been doing.
And I would also like to ask the other Members of this House to continue to examine these issues outside of this debate.
