Mr President, the eastward enlargement project is without doubt of historic significance.
After the fall of the Iron Curtain it is a logical consequence that the Union continues with the building of the common house of Europe.
In order to do justice to this historic task, the people who already live in this house must be given the security that both the foundations and the enlarged structure are built on solid bases.
Without doubt broad sectors of the population have a sceptical view of our steps towards enlargement.
It must be the task of this Parliament to take seriously the fears and anxieties of the Union's citizens and to incorporate these into the assessment of the enlargement project.
With Agenda 2000 the Commission presented a paper designed to show the way to an enlarged Union.
To stay with my image: Agenda 2000 represents only a sketch of the enlargement structure but not by any means a detailed building plan.
Therefore a large number of corrections of an institutional, financial and political nature are still necessary.
I am an Austrian member.
Austria is like no other country in the Union, surrounded by potential candidates for entry.
So it will probably feel the effects of the eastward enlargement of the EU more directly and more sensitively than many other Member States.
Just how sensitive the question of enlargement actually is can be seen from a unanimously passed resolution of the Upper Austria State Parliament.
In this all party representatives were requested to ensure that there would be no entry negotiations with the Czech Republic until further work on the building of the Temelin nuclear power station was abandoned.
This is the stated wish and aim of a democratically legal Austrian Parliament which the Austrian MEPs were requested to represent.
The house of Europe needs solid foundations.
In order to enlarge it stone must be laid on stone, or rather stone after stone.
Willy Brandt declared at the time of the fall of the Berlin Wall that what belongs together, grows together.
Let us give Europe the time to grow together!
