Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after one and a half years of extremely tough negotiations with the Council, and I mean extremely tough, which on a number of occasions were close to failure, the European Parliament through its conciliation procedure finally succeeded in increasing funding for the current research framework programme by ECU 115 million.
This was especially difficult because - and I emphasize the point - the Commission itself had seemed well satisfied with a figure of ECU 100 million.
The figure of ECU 115 million is a real success for Parliament and I wish to thank all those who made it possible, namely my colleagues in this House and - let me be quite clear about it - the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council.
But to what extent can this really be considered a success?
Our success in carrying through the measure is certainly a positive development, despite the fact that the original figure was ECU 700 million.
It is also good to see the adoption of a new programme, the first time this has been done on the initiative of the European Parliament, rather than at the behest of the Commission.
This programme is aimed at eliminating land-mines, and its funding stands at ECU 20 million, including the supplementary budget.
It has often been said, and I repeat the fact here, that an estimated 110 million land-mines have been laid around the world.
Using current technology, it would take 1000 years to get rid of them all - even if the money were available.
We also approved an additional ECU 35 million for BSE research - a real success in my opinion.
This will benefit research not only into the BSE disease, but also into new transmission mechanisms.
I also anticipate that this work will provide an insight into other epidemic transmission processes.
Last but not least - I believe this is due to pressure from Parliament - we now have more money for renewable energies and also of course for the current programme for multimedia, climate, transport, telematics, etcetera.
The procedure itself, or at least the one employed in this case, prevented any real negotiations - a fact which is worth reflecting on.
We were not confronted with the decision-makers themselves - as I like to call the research ministers.
We should in fact have been negotiating with the Council of Finance Ministers itself, but this body was not present as technically this subject was outside its responsibility.
It is also interesting that in the budgetary process Parliament had been hoping for ECU 200 million through the reallocation of funds for research, whereas the Council finally only agreed ECU 115 million.
A sum of ECU 200 million could have been made available without having to issue additional funds, since this amount was provided through reallocation.
However, the Council only wanted to spend ECU 115 million on research.
This is a remarkable u-turn on research and it certainly shows up all those Sunday speeches we heard in this House.
This decision is all the more regrettable since research activities in the European Union are generally in stagnation.
There may be exceptions, but in overall terms research in the fifteen Member States is in recession, or at least in the doldrums.
This is hardly a good example for the EU's policy of innovation.
In the coming weeks and months we will presumably be faced with a situation in which economic growth, which is now happily on the horizon again, has stimulated the demand for new skilled workers which we simply do not have because we have not been training them in recent years.
This is down to the fact that our young people have been discouraged from studying engineering and natural sciences.
Presumably this means that we shall have to recruit these skills from the Indian subcontinent or elsewhere.
This is good news for them, but bad news for Europeans.
Finally let me say that Members of this Parliament did not find it easy to agree to this compromise.
Nevertheless, I would ask everyone, including those who expressed very little enthusiasm for the decision, to vote for the programme tomorrow.
We should not behave as if we wanted to reject it completely.
If we were to vote against the proposal, then we would ultimately get even less from it.
I therefore call upon all Members to vote for the proposal.
I also urgently implore the Commission to implement these decisions as quickly as possible.
This applies especially to the land-mines issue.
The Commission must also - and I stress the point - set up an appropriate management unit which is capable of taking action and, in the short space of time available next year, must also ensure that the funds are distributed in a rational manner.
