Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to convey my thanks and respect to the rapporteur.
To reconcile so many different opinions in this House requires not only considerable skill, but great self-denial also.
I know a lot of hard work has gone into this.
Let me start with an example from history.
Thousands of years ago the Chinese built the first ocean-going ships.
They already had the compass before the Europeans left the Mediterranean.
Nevertheless, the Europeans went on to conquer the globe and not the Chinese.
Why?
The Chinese did not want to.
They did not want to use their technology for this purpose whereas the Europeans did.
We are faced with a similar problem in regard to research.
We can only make things available, funds, ideas; whether the Europeans, Europe's researchers, make use of them, however, is up to them.
This brings me to something I am actually sorry about, namely that we are relatively guarded about the proposal where the funds are concerned.
I am aware of the financial constraints, and I am no illusionist either.
All the same, it is not enough for Europe to catch up on the USA or Japan, or to relegate the newly industrialized countries of Southeast Asia to second or third place.
Efforts need to be made in the Member States and in the companies.
Investment in research must retain or regain a high, even moral, standing in Europe.
That is what it is all about.
Perhaps a signal for such vitality will come from this debate and the discussions on the fourth framework programme.
At least I would like to think so.
Just let me say a few words, as time is short, on the Euratom section since I am very satisfied with most of the other aspects.
It is no secret that I regret cuts having been made in the Euratom programme.
I can barely understand this since we need the funds.
Unlike some of my colleagues, I am of the opinion that we need them for fusion.
We need the funds for nuclear safety, especially when central and eastern European states join us.
As you know, these all have Soviet reactors, if they have reactors at all.
We must increase safety.
Hence we do not need less money, but more.
Even if it is not nice to say as much, I say it here.
Finally, I hope that the Commission will have as much leeway as possible in research policy.
The Commission has the responsibility and it should also have the opportunity to transfer funds from one side to another on its own responsibility.
You cannot plan research; instead you have to expect surprises, and respond to them accordingly.
I wish the Commission a happy hand in this.
