Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, thank you!
What you have said today agrees to a large extent with what we have said, and I think it is unnecessary today to discuss differences between you and us or between you and the committee.
I will only make one short remark about what you said: the fact that Mr Cunningham, as British Minister for Agriculture, and Mr Boden, as President of the Council, appeared before the committee is not something I would call remarkable, however pleasant it was.
It should be taken for granted - excuse me, Mr President of the Commission - that ministers appear before a parliamentary body.
At this point, I would like to pass on immediately, and turn to the Council, because I have been able to negotiate with the Commission often enough in the last few months, and I make it clear that I am no longer speaking as chairperson of the committee, but on behalf of my group, the Party of European Socialists.
Mr Boden, I listened to you carefully, and I am convinced that you mean what you say.
The only problem is that you are one minister for agriculture out of 15, and I am not sure that with all your goodwill you will find a majority in the Council.
I listened to you when you said that until now the Council has had no time to discuss many questions which were dealt with, for instance, in our oral questions.
This amazed me somewhat, because we have said nothing in the Temporary Committee that we had not said before in the Committee of Inquiry, and I would have expected that the Council, at each of its meetings, whether started by you or another President of the Council, would have as the first item on its agenda: BSE, the fight, consequences and what we have done wrong!
I do not hear you asking - and I am now saying this to you as a representative, I am sorry, Mr Boden - I do not hear you asking: what have we done wrong?
You say that consumer and health protection must be considered, fine.
Why do not you say that we have neglected consumer and health protection, and now we want to consider it?
That would be the correct formulation, Mr Boden.
I say again that this is said to you as the representative of the whole Agriculture Council, because you are now its President, and I would much rather say it to the German Minister of Agriculture, for instance, or other ministers of agriculture.
For instance, why do I still have the feeling that those with responsibility have understood nothing?
Mr Boden, you said that the labelling of beef products is now new grounds for creating trust.
If that is so, and if you really seriously mean to create trust in this way - and I hope you mean it seriously, but I do not believe the other ministers do - if that is so, why could not you agree to the change of the legal basis, which Parliament and the Commission decided on together?
Why did you have to depart from that and again choose the soft formulation of article 43, which gives you the most power, which offers you a free ticket?
Why, Mr Boden?
Just tell me.
Tell me also why I still have the feeling that the crow syndrome rules in the Council.
One crow does not peck the other's eyes out.
You said that people must be protected, including people who make their living from cattle.
I can understand that farmers must be protected, but I can also understand that the vast majority of the people of the European Union must be protected, and they are many more than the farmers!
You failed to do that in the Agriculture Council.
Why was it that the meat market and support for the market used to be more important than protection of health, and why should we believe that this has changed?
Can you tell us?
For instance, when Mr Santer's Commission made a modest attempt in Agenda 2000 to decide on a change to agricultural prices, and to change the subsidy scheme, for instance, why did not you agree and rejoice about it?
Why have I heard bleating and moaning and great fear from every minister for agriculture?
We all know that the basic evil of what we are now experiencing, BSE and much more, including crime, lies in this subsidy scheme.
Why did not it come from you, why did not you say: we must make a clean break and change everything, we as ministers of agriculture will show that we have understood something.
Mr Boden, I am sorry that I must say that so sharply.
The Commission certainly has understood something.
How much it has understood we shall soon see.
I do not think the Agriculture Council has understood anything, or that the ministers of agriculture, except yourself, have understood anything, and we should monitor them all the more closely!
