Madam President, Mr Commissioner, Mr Valverde, thank you for all the work that you have put into your report on reducing tobacco consumption.
Your report impressed me in that it made me aware, in a completely new way, of how we treat tobacco, and it became clear to me that in recent years we have probably often ignored standards of courtesy, social standards as you call them, standards of politeness and consideration for people who do not smoke.
You have probably made a lot of people more aware of this.
I believe that this is also an important way in which we can achieve a reduction in tobacco consumption.
Ladies and gentlemen, tobacco advertising is one aspect.
Some people believe that banning it is a panacea, while others believe that in a free and liberal world it should be allowed.
I welcome the fact that we are now in a position to discuss this important subject in relation to a separate directive which the Council has now prepared.
It has certainly taken long enough!
We should consider that directive with due care, taking into account not only scientific findings but also, no doubt, emotions.
I shall be taking part in that debate.
However, I am not so enthusiastic about some of the amendments, whose authors seem to think that health warnings covering 25 % of the total packet surface for tobacco products will make people give up smoking.
This demonstrates very precisely that we are merely relying on the law, and that is the wrong approach.
I believe that if people cannot understand the present perfectly good health warnings, nothing will be achieved by making them twice as big; that approach is mistaken.
I would like to come back to your idea that awareness needs to develop inside our heads.
I would like to see us working on that.
One last point, as a rapporteur with many years' experience on the Committee on Budgets: one point is constantly overlooked in this House, i.e. that we generously subsidise tobacco production here in Europe.
Even worse, we produce tobacco that no-one in Europe wants to smoke.
If you smoke this tobacco it blows the top off your head!
Ladies and gentlemen, let us start by supporting the Commission, which has made some good initial progress towards finally developing a new market organization that will gradually take us in the right direction.
I have no time for these dramatic proposals to abolish everything in one year.
That is impossible and it is antisocial anyway.
But there is a new approach to employment and I can imagine that by combining improvements in quality with employment aspects we could come up with a better means of supporting tobacco growing, with a view to gradually phasing it out in the long term.
We should all have the courage to work on this.
I certainly hope that I will be involved in this work on behalf of my group.
