Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at this late hour I will just make a few comments.
There are indisputable facts about Socrates - not the late lamented, but the programme.
First, this Socrates programme, with its elements Erasmus and Komenius, is the success story of the European Union, as far as adult and language training are concerned.
What needs to be done, what has to be strengthened or improved?
Nothing, actually, except that expenditure of money is associated with it.
Secondly, education and training are the important pillars of all efforts for the future that we can undertake today.
In Europe our capital lies in the best trained young people of all classes, in other words irrespective of their family origins.
Thirdly, xenophobia can only be reduced and hatred of foreigners prevented by mobility and living with one another in Europe.
The Socrates programme in all its parts is the instrument for many young people to achieve a European capability.
I am sure - one can read that also in the Council's joint declaration - that this is common ground.
The conclusions in the joint declaration are, however, curiously illogical.
Knowing that the programme is a good one; that it has gained acceptance; that young people want to use this programme to invest in European added value for the rest of their lives; the Council takes no cognisance of it.
Today I received by coincidence a letter from a young student who said he wants to take part in Erasmus, is taking part and receives DM 100 per month - ECU 50 for his mobility.
He is sorry, but he cannot do it.
We first need more money, therefore, in order to meet the desires we have awakened.
Secondly, the Council must give solid financing to its own promises.
I want the central and eastern European states and all associated countries also to be able to participate in the Socrates programme.
Today I have to ask myself, however, if the Council really wants that too.
We want it.
The Council owes us proof.
A miserable sum of ECU 23 million for 1998 and 1999.
That means the Council allows us ECU 12.5 million for next year.
How generous!
Particularly when we needed over ECU 80 million just for 1997 in order to complete but one part of Erasmus.
Parliament is very moderate.
Really.
In view of the stretched budgetary situation in all Member States we really do not want to be immoderate.
We are not quite so moderate, Commissioner Cresson, as you will probably have to be today, unfortunately, for reasons of collegial responsibility.
We are not quite so moderate.
We ask for ECU 50 million for the next budgetary year - and it is in tomorrow's budget and we shall vote for it.
That is still much less than we planned for in 1994, at a time when neither Sweden, Finland nor Austria was a member, and when there were no associated nations.
We still remain today below what we previously planned for the whole programme, what we estimated for the whole duration for 12 countries, namely ECU 1, 000 million.
We remain under this today.
One cannot be more moderate.
We do understand the budgetary situation.
I believe we have no option but to appeal to the Council.
I hope that the Luxembourg Presidency of the Council really helps us to get over this in the next few weeks.
We appeal to the Council to do everything in its power not miss this investment in the future of our children.
What we miss today cannot be recovered tomorrow.
It is the best possible investment in a good future for the whole of Europe!
