Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I too am in favour of honesty but I believe that we are not all lying ourselves into the bag, as Mr Samland has said - very well then into the potato bag - but I really do believe that the Parliamentary paper as well as the Commission's paper, Agenda 2000, leave room for manoeuvre.
Some people call it Russian dolls, but it is possible to choose and to continue with negotiations depending on individual progress.
The enlargement of the European Union is part of the basic idea of integration, it is a building principle of the Community and a historic necessity.
Austria, which will take over the EU Presidency in the second half of 1998, has, by virtue of its geopolitical situation and its historical ties with central Europe, an interest in seeing that its neighbour countries do not languish in a political noman's-land and lock into the economic standards of the west.
Only by removing economic imbalances on our old continent can Europe become safer, wealthier and more peaceful.
In this context let me quote an idea of the Czech President Vaclav Havel, who once wrote that it is not simply a question of Membership of the club of the wealthy but also of an acknowledgment of western civilization and an escape from the vacuum between east and west.
Of course the per capita income of the central and eastern European states is considerably lower than our own.
In addition there are burdens due to the high proportion of workers in these countries who work in agriculture, as for example in Poland, and structural problems in the spheres of coal, steel and heavy industry.
In particular in the sphere of environmental policy great deficits must be made up, obsolete nuclear power stations represent a safety risk.
The eastern European countries should therefore commit themselves in the long term to abandon nuclear energy.
Until then everything should be done to make the existing nuclear power stations as safe as possible.
For Austria in particular, which has the longest borders with applicant countries, support for the border regions is important in order to absorb the effects of structural adaptation problems and transition periods for freedom of movement in personal traffic, transition periods in agriculture, as was the case in Portugal and Spain.
Above all, however, net payers must not face excessive demands for money.
I am very much in favour of a limit of 1.27 % of the gross national product, for the eastward enlargement must be conceived as an all-European project.
Solidarity has to apply to everybody, to net payers and to net receivers.
Ultimately it is also a question of applicant countries having to meet the EU standards of democracy and human rights.
This should not lead to the situation where we block out problem cases like Slovakia but offer an incentive so that these countries develop in the direction of democracy, human rights and the protection of minorities.
No country should feel that it is excluded from the enlargement process.
There must be no European two-class society.
The enlargement process must lead to the export of security and not the import of insecurity!
