Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
This report, and the matter under discussion, focuses attention on two particular areas, namely structure and agricultural policy.
Here I must contradict Mr Rack.
What is the point of examining the past without also drawing conclusions for the future.
Mr Izquierdo Collado tries to train his argument on the future, knowing well that the EU is in constant flux and that we are right now faced with major changes if we are to include European enlargement in our considerations.
Yet this approach is the correct one, since enlargement is coming and in political terms it is both necessary and desirable.
We also have to ask how much this will cost.
Can the European family continue to manage its affairs in the same way as before when it has to look after a number of new members?
Is it not time for some reorganizing here and there?
Should we also be tightening our belts?
Here talk of ownership is simply out of place.
The structural fund has been introduced to enable the EU's poorer regions to adapt.
I am assuming here that these regions will in fact be able to adapt over a period of years by the efficient use of resources.
There are in fact some early indications of success in this respect.
Were this not to be the case, then the resources in question will have been misappropriated.
It is simply premature to be discussing increased levels of self-generated resources.
Of course we will have to think about this again in five years time and review the situation.
I advocate this, as does my group.
I believe that the same applies to the cohesion fund, which was set up to help Member States move towards monetary union.
When this has been achieved, then I would say that the cohesion fund will have fulfilled its role.
Should further support be required, then we should consider some other arrangement, possibly also involving a structural aid scheme.
Economic and social cohesion cannot only be measured in terms of financial resources.
But cohesion must also come from within.
I regret that we have had so few positive things to say this evening, but I too am running out of time.
Let me just say one final thing: structural policy and regional policy have both scored successes and that is something we should not forget.
