Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to avoid any misunderstandings, let me say that there is clearly a serious threat from international crime, and this will have to be answered by international police cooperation.
Constitutional procedures, however, require a precise knowledge of what the phenomenon of international crime consists of, and against whom one has to take steps.
A senior policeman once said that he knew what it was, but he could not really describe it.
That is not enough for action to be taken.
Thus my main criticism is aimed at the entirely imprecise definition of organized crime.
Mrs Cederschiöld's report describes gang crime and criminal complicity, but it does not mention one main attribute and characteristic: the infiltration of crime into the machinery of state.
Unclear and imprecise definition makes it possible for any means to be used as soon as things become dangerous.
Then the term "organized crime' can be used as a sort of skeleton key to unlock anything, any taboo, any basic right, and thus weaken the system of legal safeguards.
One popular example of this is Europol, whose power would be extended in the action plan, but without any extension of legal guarantees.
I do not need to go into democratic and legal safeguards here, or into the fact that there is no sign anywhere of a European Public Prosecutor's Office.
We emphatically reject the logic of the doctrine concerning equality of weapon power.
The state cannot and must not use criminal methods and means.
The end does not justify the means.
That is a strangulation of basic rights, as critics say when they talk of too many basic laws being unhealthy and of having to try less democracy.
Democracy and basic rights are fundamental and are not available for disposal, not even in the fight against crime.
I emphatically support what Mrs Gradin has said.
I think what is mainly lacking from the action programme is a section on prevention and research into causation.
Research into causes is the way to dig up crime by the roots, instead of playing about with its symptoms.
Many thanks to Mrs Gradin, and many thanks to the Council.
Many thanks despite all the controversy, or because of all the controversy, to the three rapporteurs - all of them equally, but more equally to Mr Orlando.
