Mr President, we are talking here - let us remind ourselves - about food legislation in the European Union, which, like legislation in general, is governed by the basic demand for harmonization.
Everyone who wants to sell a product wants free trade in goods.
Even France is amongst these when it wants to sell French products, although it forgets that quite happily in the relevant debate.
If we want free trade and wish to encourage it, which all of us do, then we must have certain prerequisites.
One of these has always been for us that goods produced within the European Union must consist of ingredients free of substances that endanger health.
That has always been the basic understanding of our food legislation.
Unlike many who have spoken today, I have followed every single food resolution for the last 8 years, and always said the same thing: ingredients must be free of substances that endanger health, they must contain no allergen risks, they may not be carcinogenic, they must be such that people can eat them without becoming ill.
We all surely agree on that.
When it is maintained here, however, that there are some substances which are obviously worse than others, then I should like to know why.
I admire the courage - if I were to be malicious I should call it arrogance - of those who believe that there is good and bad chocolate.
Those who like eating Swiss chocolate - and I am an expert on every chocolate in the world - are very surprised when they learn that there is vegetable fat in it.
The same applies to other chocolate.
I have my own favourite chocolate, as do we all.
I do not care one bit if there is vegetable fat in it or not.
It is a matter of flavour, and that goes for the others as well.
To believe that to say that just because vegetable fat - and I repeat, vegetable fat - is used in Great Britain or Sweden, this makes it a chocolate substitute, is an arrogance towards the whole population there, who are accustomed to this chocolate and like eating it.
I believe it has always been our intention here in the European Parliament to encourage the emancipation of citizens, because I hear this said repeatedly.
If we are to do that, then we must regulate just one thing: how much must there be in a product for that product to be capable of designation as such.
We do that with liver sausage, laying down the quantity of liver it has to contain, or whether soya protein may be included; we do it with wine and everything else.
And I am sure I shall have on my side all of you who have already spoken, when we talk soon about consumer protection and consumer information, for instance, on concerning wine, identification and other matters.
But we shall return to that on another occasion.
Let us not fool ourselves.
We are concerned today with competition and money!
This a matter of economic interests, and nothing else.
Anyone who says here today that this concerns the degrading of a product, is not talking about realities.
Recipes and contents cannot be altered arbitrarily.
One thing is quite right: we must inform consumers, and here I am in agreement with Mrs Thyssen and everyone else.
If we believe, however, that the list of ingredients is not sufficient for this purpose, then I would ask you to introduce another consumer information regulation for all colouring agents and all other additives.
I am convinced that the ingredients list for a product must contain details of what is in the product.
That applies equally to cocoa butter, dry cocoa, and vegetable fats other than cocoa butter.
