Madam President, I would first like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Paasio, and to congratulate him on his report.
This is actually his first report to the Parliament and I think that in conjunction with our group he has carried out this task admirably.
But I would also like to thank the organizations being discussed here, that is the nongovernmental organizations.
They do enormously important work for the European Union and for people in less developed countries.
In the first place, it is good that they make a contribution themselves and this means that the effectiveness of aid is automatically increased, as anyone collecting donations to a particular project has a great responsibility to make sure that the money is also spent properly.
Secondly, NGOs - especially church NGOs, but also many private initiatives - have partners on the ground whom they can trust and with whom they can work very well, and who also know the local structure very well.
That is why we should continue to help NGOs.
It is a good sign that we have already significantly topped up the relevant funding in the budget for next year.
However, there are also a few problems.
I cannot praise the staff in the unit which administers the relevant budget line too highly - from personal experience I can say that they seem to be very committed.
But the NGOs have a problem in that the time before an application is approved or rejected is very long.
Anybody who knows this business will confirm that it is simply not possible to withhold money for a whole year.
Once projects have been planned with partners, they have to be tackled sooner or later.
For that reason, I think that Amendment No 9 is very important, as it specifies that a reply has to be given within at most nine months.
I think that this actually possible in the present situation, difficult as it is for the staff, but we would also try to shorten the delay still further, and I therefore believe that this unit needs more staff.
I am not saying this to be entertaining, but because I really think that this needs looking at.
I am addressing this comment to Sir Leon Brittan but I also think that the other commissioners need to consider if in one of the Commission's other Directorates-General there are not perhaps some staff who could be transferred to remove this bottleneck in DG VIII.
These people are really overloaded, and they need more staff so that the money for this important work can be properly administered.
