Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, as an Austrian I am delighted to be the first speaker from my group - in fact, I come from a country which is considerably affected by the enlargement of the European Union, although I realise I am only speaking first because Klaus Hänsch arrived relatively late due to difficult circumstances and he was generous enough to allow me to speak.
I also thank him for the fact - he played a decisive part in this - that we in our group were finally able to find common ground with another group, which I consider to be very positive.
Over the past few weeks "joining fever' has been raging in this House.
The big question has been: are you in favour of regatta or are you in favour of five plus one?
At breakfast, lunch and dinner, and not just during meetings of the Committee on Foreign Policy, that has been the central question dividing people, to exaggerate a little, into friends and enemies.
Ultimately, as befits both Parliament and ourselves, we are in favour of both.
But that is not just a lazy compromise - it is also a good compromise, as the President of the Council and the Commissioner have already pointed out.
So this has kept us intensely busy, and for us it is not just a matter of fact question, it is also a very emotional question.
What better verdict on of the European Union can there be than the fact that so many countries are queuing at the door of this Union with one predominant desire, namely to become a member of this Union?
However critical we may be, however dissatisfied with so much, and our citizens even more so, it is nevertheless the best possible sign for a community when, really, all those inside it want to stay there and all those outside it want to come in.
That is what our neighbours want and we should help them.
In fact, they see in membership of the European Union the opportunity to overcome all the grief, all the bad economic developments, all the political difficulties of the past decades, and it is our downright responsibility and obligation to help them triumph!
After all, the fall of the Iron Curtain, the destruction of the communist regime does not bring about, on its own, the peace and prosperity we want for them and which is necessary for us as well.
Of course we should give equal consideration to the fact that many of us are frightened of this enlargement process, because there will be migrations, because there will perhaps be less money for us or for some of us, or because some of us will be asked to pay more money.
This fear should be taken seriously, for without our own people and their approval we cannot conclude this expansion process positively, so that it is supported by our people not only in form but also in substance and we ought to say that.
We should tell them that it is a huge opportunity for Europe and for all of us.
Enlargement is not a game in which one wins and the other loses, in which Hungary, Poland and all the other countries win because we lose.
No, enlargement is a chance to create a common area of welfare and security in Europe, and we must seize that chance!
Despite this positive emotional attitude we should also be frank and honest.
It is not an Easter stroll, with spring already here and summer just around the corner.
It is a difficult, protracted process of negotiation and discussion which, given goodwill, can be properly concluded.
But it requires goodwill on both sides and of course it requires the applicant countries to carry out reforms.
It will take time to carry out these reforms and therefore I would discard any short term prognosis.
The essential point is not what prognoses we venture to make as to when these countries may join.
What is decisive is that next year we begin serious negotiations, immediately, that we start work immediately to introduce the reforms, both in the countries which want to join and in the countries of the European Union.
The formula we have found, or are in the process of finding together - by this evening we will have to consider it - is in my view a thoroughly practicable formula.
We want everybody to participate in this enlargement process, so that nobody is excluded, nobody feels forced to stay outside, without knowing how long the wait will be.
Above all, we want negotiations to take place with those who espouse democracy not only in theory but also in practice, and we want intensive negotiations to take place with those now proposed by the Commission.
If something changes in these countries - and things can change rapidly, as we see in the Czech Republic - then we simply negotiate with those who have meanwhile improved.
In this respect I would like to thank the Commission and pay tribute to its work, even if the proposal has now been changed.
We could only change it, we could only reach this compromise, because it was possible to build on the Commission's proposal.
In this sense we have found a very good solution.
In this sense it is possible to carry out this process of enlargement without weakening the European Union, for we want enlargement to strengthen the European Union.
We will succeed if we work at it together.
