I rise to endorse Mr Posselt's comments.
I certainly do not intend to oppose these proposals, but I would nevertheless like to emphasize that we in this Parliament fail to understand just what an enormous influence we can have, and what we can achieve in this area.
I would like to mention in particular the case of Michael Arzinkov.
Because he was an Islamic activist, he had his passport withdrawn and was forbidden to leave the country, and when he demanded his passport back, he was told that he would not be given it until he had submitted to a psychiatric examination.
Mr President, these are the kind of facts that define President Islam Karimov's policies.
As Mr Posselt has quite rightly said, it has to be recognized that this is a people which has been demeaned by years of suppression, so we need to give them our understanding.
However, the fact that after our delegation there intervened the passport was at least returned demonstrates that we can achieve something!
For that reason, it might have a decisive impact if we associated the acceptance of this agreement - which I support - with a statement that there is still an enormous amount of catching up to do on human rights.
This applies above all to religious rights, as Islam is very fiercely repressed there.
For example, the calls of the muezzin are forbidden, a sign of extreme political persecution.
Not to mention the fact that a whole string of leading Islamic figures, such as Mr Nazarov, are constantly locked up or threatened in their own homes, and their families subjected to various pressures.
The same applies to Christians.
For example, the Baptist representative, Mr Rashid Durebayev, has also been tried and may possibly face three years in prison.
It is well known that conditions in these prisons are so fearful that people die from illness or mistreatment in a relatively short time.
So I implore you, let us support this Agreement, but let us also make use of the influence that we can bring to bear.
The case I have quoted demonstrates that Uzbekistan has a capacity for decency not only in religious matters but also on all other problems.
