Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am very unhappy to see that the PPE has taken a stance without consulting the other members of the delegation, and is even quoting the delegation as if there were a common opinion on this issue.
This is simply going it alone and, Mrs Pack, I am very sorry that you have decided to depart from the route of cooperation which we were only too happy to travel.
Mr Habsburg, and here I mean Otto von Habsburg, has said that the outcome of the elections was not to the liking of many of those taking part.
This is the fault of the electors, not the government.
But the course which you are adopting is now just the reverse.
Because your sister or brother party did not win, but in fact lost, suddenly everything which the government there is doing is wrong.
This is something which I totally repudiate and reject.
My Party and I are not prepared to proceed with the form of non-cooperation which you have adopted within the delegation.
You have not sought contact and have not convened any delegation meetings to discuss this particular issue.
During our joint visit to Albania you even called upon the opposition to return to Parliament and to cooperate with it, something which was not part of your resolution.
In fact there is not a single mention of it in the resolution.
Your motion does not in any way convey the discussion which we had within the delegation.
I regret this, for you are biased in criticizing only the government, or rather the governing majority, and are focusing only on one side, while ignoring all the other arguments which have been put forward.
You make deadlines and then you postpone them, which makes it very difficult for us to take part in the delegation meetings.
You are then not even prepared to try to find common ground on the Albanian issue.
I regret this very much.
I am also of the opinion that the quotation at the beginning of the resolution is incorrect and unreliable.
I intend to petition the President on this matter.
