Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to associate myself with what our colleague Mr Dankert has said here.
It is very interesting that we are now faced with a more or less concealed fight over distribution within the European Union which very much reminds me of what we have already discussed at the beginning of the 1980s.
I am sometimes amazed that the arguments which at that time were ranged against the southward enlargement of the European Union are coming today from those countries which were at the time accepted into the European Union.
People ought to search their conscience to see if the arguments were not wrong even then which persuaded us not to accept these countries.
We should not follow the bus theory: we ourselves are sitting in the bus and the bus is full.
That is, I believe, sometimes a difficult situation.
The significance of the enlargement of the European Union, the historic opportunity has frequently been evoked, and I can only underline this.
In my opinion we should use two definitions when it is a matter of not discriminating.
We must not discriminate in the sense that we give some candidates no hope.
We must set in motion a process which offers them objective chances of becoming members of the European Union.
At the same time we must arm the chief negotiators with objective criteria so that they can make such a differentiation so that the countries which have developed further do not have to wait when they have finished negotiations, for the others who are not so well developed.
For this reason I believe that the compromise solutions we have reached meanwhile can be interpreted in such a way that the Commission and the Council have at their disposal this scope for differentiation.
This is of extraordinary significance, for when the first country comes in much later than it would have been possible then this means falling hopes for those countries which would come in later in any case.
Therefore it is the wrong start to just throw everything into one pot.
We must all do our homework.
The applicant countries must do their homework in order to get fit to be in the European Union, but we must also do our homework, on the structural policy, on the agricultural policy, on the institutional reforms, not in the exaggerated sense but in a way which is necessary for enlargement.
We must do this homework and we organize ourselves so that the opportunity to enlarge the European Union does not lead to new conflicts.
Enlargement must have opportunities for transition so that it does not end up in a conflict between the applicant countries and the present day Member States of the European Union.
Also the new border of the European Union means that we must build bridges to those countries who in the long term or in the foreseeable future will not get into the European Union and if in building bridges we lose sight of the Ukraine and Russia then we shall also be making a mistake.
