Mr President, the report by Mrs van Dijk has my full support.
All the proposed technical and veterinary measures for the improvement of transport conditions for animals are sensible.
They are well-considered and above all practicable.
They should be implemented as soon as possible.
Let me point out that in Austria at the moment the Independent Party is doing lot on behalf of animals who suffer as a result of live transport.
Our activities so far reach from open letters to Commissioner Fischler, through collecting signatures and action days, to blockades of sensitive border crossings; because in Austria there is a special situation arising from Austria's Animal Transport Law.
The regulation on total transport duration has not yet been brought into line with the strictly-worded EU guidelines in this respect.
Although in Austria the total authorized transport duration of six hours is a more rigorous limit than that proposed by the EU, a driver cannot be prosecuted if he has not exceeded this limit in Austria, even though he has been driving for more than six hours in a foreign country.
This is - excuse me for speaking plainly - absolute rubbish, which holds life in contempt!
It is an invitation to misuse a well-meaning law.
Now I come to the main problem.
Every regulation will remain a toothless tiger unless it contains effective and stricter controls and, above all, efficient criminal sanctions.
This means that the EU guidelines will lead to serious problems in practice, simply because they contain no criminal penalties.
I believe, therefore, that the requirements of the relevant criminal laws should be much more strictly worded.
In Austria, for example, we introduced on our own initiative, in April this year, an animal transport inspector on the busiest motorway route.
His task is to force any truck to be taken to a specially established animal and watering station if its floor is not correctly covered with straw or sawdust, or if its animals have not been watered and fed.
Yet again, without effective penalties, without considerable fines, we are just achieving half a solution.
Live animal transport has expanded explosively since precisely that moment when it received such generous help from Commission.
That shows that many people in the business are very well aware of the power of money, and with animal suffering there is still much too much money to be made.
That is the actual core of the problem.
