Mr President, the European internal market has produced remarkable gains for national economies, but has so far failed to bridge the gap between rich and poor.
Unemployment in the ten poorest regions is almost seven times higher than in the ten richest regions.
The concentration effect of the internal market is clearly bringing greater wealth to the industrialized areas, but at the expense of the disadvantaged regions.
In spite of substantial structural funding we have yet to redress this inequality.
Are we to allow this to continue?
While the initial trend was to do away with economic and social cohesion as the European Union's own solidarity policy, the cohesion report is becoming a symbol for the preservation of the European social model.
Yet there are still finance ministers in individual Member States who are haunted by visions of fantastic sums being paid out by Europe's net contributors.
On a number of recent occasions the German Finance Minister has forgotten that the structural fund is not there simply to transfer financial resources between Member States, but rather is designed to use the EU's economic potential in the best possible way for the good of the Community.
Does the Commission really want to change the message of the cohesion report and to make greater use of the structural policy for the harmonious development of the Community?
Here I fail to see the substantive embodiment of sustained development in Agenda 2000.
In this context sustained means restoring the balance between ecology, economy and social security - not only for the industrialised areas but also for the disadvantaged regions.
At the moment, and for the foreseeable future, the latter tend to be the rural areas.
But an effective cohesion policy is only possible with the cooperation of the people on the ground.
They are entitled to a development policy which meets their needs and should not have centralized projects, such as the current plan for trans-European networks, imposed upon them from above.
