Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
Today's debate is concerned with ASEAN in general, with its relatively new member Vietnam, and with Laos which has recently been included in the membership process, as well as with Cambodia, whose ASEAN membership had to be deferred for the time being because of the violent change of government last July.
Another new ASEAN member, Burma, is not the subject of discussion today, but cannot be totally ignored.
ASEAN is an inter-Asian association which, as Mr Hindley accurately writes in his report, was designed as a bulwark against communism.
However, with Laos and Vietnam, the 'tiger club' now includes two countries which despite all their economic liberalization, politically speaking still have communist governments.
The political situation has changed since the dissolution of the old blocs.
This alliance now has a geographically strategic significance in the face of the Chinese giant to the north.
Until recently, most of ASEAN's members - especially Malaysia, Singapore, Thailand and to some extent Indonesia - were regarded as a never ending success story.
With two-figure growth rates, high-rise buildings were shooting up like mushrooms, output and exports were booming like never before, and Europe was starting to feel the aggressive competition in trade and had to - and is still having to - contend with job relocation.
At the same time, the ASEAN countries were recognised as an important market that had to be strategically addressed, so that the European Union became the second largest investor in this region.
The cooperation agreement with ASEAN is based on relations as they were in 1980.
So it can rightly be said that modernization is long overdue.
But that is easier said than done.
Extending the existing agreement to the new members is really just a matter of getting in training for that.
There was no problem with Brunei, a wealthy oil sultanate.
With Vietnam as well it is almost a formality, even if it is a bit tricky.
We have already mentioned the human rights issue.
Anyone who has ever set eyes on an ASEAN country knows that child labour, the sexual exploitation of women and children, the absence of workers' rights, and the oppression of ethnic and religious minorities are the order of the day in many places.
Working conditions in Malaysia and Indonesia and elsewhere constantly give rise to calls for the observance of the standards set by international labour organisations and for agreement on a social clause in the context of the WTO, but this scarcely bothers the ASEAN countries.
They refer to Asian values, which they say should be respected.
Malaysia has even called for an amendment of the definition of human rights in the 1950 UN convention.
However, more recently the tigers have suffered some severe setbacks.
Turbulence on the currency markets, economic collapse, and environmental disasters, especially in recent weeks, have made it clear that there is a penalty to pay for over-exploitation of people and of the environment, and economic development 'on tick' without a solid foundation.
This gives the call for a new dynamic in relations with ASEAN a new dimension.
For the European Union, this means a balancing act between political and economic systems, and between cooperation, toleration and rejection, if tolerance levels are exceeded.
So at present there can be no question of an agreement with the new ruler of Cambodia, Hun Sen, who literally walked over dead bodies to achieve power, nor can there be any question of supporting the military regime in Burma, which shows contempt for humanity, finances itself from the drug trade and from smuggling, and which accordingly has an unhealthy influence on its neighbouring countries, which out of poverty are driven to grow opium.
However, I believe that it is important, particularly in the case of Vietnam and Laos, to stress the development policy side, and to emphasise the need for sustainable development.
It is the job of the European Union to take care of this.
