Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately I do not have enough time to answer Mr Hory.
I should have been delighted to do so.
I have not heard so much nonsense all at one time for years.
As I know the area better than Mr Hory - I have been in it constantly for seven or eight years - I have long been afraid that the dead quiet existing in Kosovo is about to come to a very bloody end.
There is about to be full retribution taken for the fact that the Western nations have been averting their eyes for eight years.
No one has so far made any attempt there to help the Albanians, who for the past eight years have been beaten, tortured and robbed of their most basic human rights.
And that is without even mentioning the fact that no one has attempted to restore to the Albanians in Kosovo, where they represent a 90 % majority, the rights stolen from them by Milosevic.
Our Western governments even forge agreements with Serbia for the return of the Kosovo refugees, a return to their executioners.
Unlike the USA, all European governments have unfortunately recognized Yugoslavia without the stipulation that steps for a solution of the Kosovo crisis had to be taken.
Unfortunately, the USA - like everyone else - also failed at Dayton.
Kosovo should have been on the table at Dayton, as this would have been the only way for Milosevic to learn that we are intent on seeing that people are not treated in the way they have been for years in Kosovo.
For seven years there has only been a shadow of an education system in this area, whose diplomas have no validity.
Young people are being defrauded of their future, and I am afraid that it will be just these young people who will one day be revenged on us.
Young people form a high proportion of the Albanian population.
We are sinning against it; we, and particularly the Serbian Government in Yugoslavia.
I hope that perhaps an opportunity will emerge from Montenegro to ensure that Yugoslavia organizes itself in such a way, that everyone who lives there can be subject to democratic government.
