Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that 18 million people are unemployed throughout the European Community constitutes a challenge to the European Union, even though the primary responsibility for this lies with the employment policy of the Member States, and particularly with both sides of industry.
This view is now shared by the Amsterdam Council and is reflected in an employment statement and in a supplement to the minutes, with the aim of organizing a special summit.
The European Parliament has successfully intervened in the preparation of the Luxembourg summit and Wim van Velzen has made a significant contribution through his work in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
I should like to express my appreciation for this and wish the project every success for the future.
We agree on many points, including those voiced by the President of the Commission.
Of the many proposals put forward today for combatting unemployment, I would only reiterate the importance of qualifications, both for employees as well as for the unemployed.
This matter should be at the top of the agenda at the special meeting of Heads of State and of Government in Luxembourg.
Incentives are needed to promote job training and lifelong learning.
Europe's position requires not only modern high technology machinery but also a workforce capable of operating it.
Wim van Velzen has made interesting proposals for vocational training and for combatting youth unemployment.
Some of these - and a number of speakers have already made the same point - have admittedly focused too much on percentages and planning.
The Group of the European People's Party wishes to introduce amendments to give the proposals a much needed boost.
The President-in-Office of the Council has brought a refreshing new tone into the European debate.
He is quite right in warning of the danger of setting the sights too high.
Mr Juncker will, I am sure, be able to make a significant contribution to the summit.
The latter must see practical decisions being taken and should not get bogged down in matters of theory.
But it will not work without money, Mr van Velzen, as you well know.
The European budget will have to be scrutinized line by line to see if additional reserves can be found.
The Davignon report has put forward the European Limited Company as an ideal legal instrument, particularly for mobilizing private capital for the establishment of transeuropean networks.
The European Limited Company project has already failed due to the contentious issue of comanagement.
The Council Presidency in Luxembourg has come up with an interesting compromise in this respect.
If political accord can be reached this year within the Council of Ministers on the basis of this partnership solution, then this will also be good for European employment policy.
The challenge to the job market can be answered not by a free market policy but by a social one with real partnership!
