Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Herbert Bösch has addressed the matter both in his report and in his comments.
There is basic dissatisfaction within the Committee on Budgetary Control, not only with regard to the control of fraud in general and in the Member States, but also in terms of our dealings with the Commission and our debate on how this problem can be tackled through dialogue with Parliament.
There are many examples of this, and I cannot address them all today.
Time is too short and these matters can be dealt with on another occasion.
Let me just cite one example: As a result of their discontent, the Committee on Budgetary Control decided some weeks ago to send a letter to Commission President Santer asking for talks on the matter.
No response has yet been received, a fact which does little to reinforce our trust in collaboration with the Commission.
This is in keeping with the views of Mr Bösch, namely that while it says a lot of things, the Commission is not too happy to talk about measures which it is proposing to implement when this might also implicate it in fraud and corruption.
This subject is admittedly not part of our remit, but I mention it just the same.
In its communication on corruption control, the Commission covered a wide range of issues, but failed to mention corruption within its own organisation.
That is a serious omission, and we recognise it as such.
It is not just an accidental oversight, it is an increasingly obvious one.
Why is the Commission dragging its heels in an area in which it holds all the cards and where it can set the pace, call the tune?
The question is neither theoretical nor rhetorical.
More and more of us are wondering just why the Commission is failing to sort out its own affairs.
This is an opportunity to set an example not only to Member States but also to the often criticized executive controls and the rightly criticized system of audit implementation in the Member States.
How much more credible it would be if the two bodies we represent could set a good example here.
Let me cite another instance.
In your work programme you repeatedly state that you will sending us a communication on fraud in the tariff preference systems.
Madam Commissioner, this is all very convincing I am sure, but this particular topic has now featured three or four times in the work programme.
It keeps cropping up.
We know that there is a serious problem in this area, and this is something which is within the competence of the Commission.
The latter has promised to submit a communication to the Council and to Parliament, as this is such a pressing matter.
But we know the matter is pressing - you told us it was years ago!
Mr Bösch is preparing a hearing on the subject and your communication would have been very useful as a reference document.
I now believe that this hearing too has been postponed for a year.
We are still waiting for you!
We initially did it with patience and civility.
While we retain our civility, our patience is now at an end!
