Mr President, I should like to echo Mrs Daskalaki's thanks to the members of the Committee of Culture, because I think it is very important that in her initiative report Mrs Daskalaki has touched on this question, which is of such interest to the press as part of the new technologies.
A difficult situation is emerging for the press from its competition with the new communication services.
The figures show, for example, that from 1991 to 1995 daily newspaper copies sold in the EU member states shrank by 3.7 %, and also that the proportion of advertising copy going to the print media has been steadily diminishing since 1980.
That is a main cause of worry for the press.
Since the beginning of the 80s television has been the main reason for the recession in advertising revenue.
The situation in the competition between print media and others is now becoming increasingly critical because of the introduction of new forms of advertising in the electronic media, and the introduction of on-line information services.
For this reason I think it is very right that Mrs Daskalaki has emphasized in her report that the new media have had the benefit of community funding within the framework of initiatives for the encouragement of the information society, whereas the written press has received no such support.
We on the Committee on Culture ask not for direct support of the press by the European Community, but at least for measures towards indirect support.
Above all, I think the training of journalists is very important.
I would like to draw attention to the fact that in my report by the Committee on Culture on Agenda 2000, particular mention was made of the necessity to train journalists in the new Member States.
I agree with Mrs Daskalaki that the written press and the other media should complement one another, and can certainly exist side by side in a new field of communications, but that the Commission should concern itself with the difficult situation of the press.
I welcome, therefore, the fact that with this initiative report the question of the effects of new technology on the press has been touched on for the first time in the European Parliament.
