Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I welcome you to this extended sitting of the coordinators of the economic committee and the shadow rapporteurs.
The future of our national economies is too important to us all for us simply to leave them to the dictates of the financial markets.
Therefore Mr Gasòliba i Böhm raised several important questions and has also found quite well considered answers with which we can proceed but that is not sufficient.
If Mr Gasòliba i Böhm says here that we would or could not implement here a theoretically perfect model then he is of course right but the introduction of the euro simply sets conditions and requirements which a model of economic policy must meet and this is not achieved following present discussions on Mr Gasòliba i Böhm's proposals.
Article 13 determines that the European central bank is committed first and foremost to monetary stability, but supports the European economic policy and the ECU and at the same time pursues the aims of the treaty, These conditions however are meaningless if there is no concrete European economic policy organized on an obligatory basis.
It is not a question of impairing the independence of the European central bank.
It is a question of substituting a reembedding for the disembedding which is taking place at the moment.
I refer here to Michael Polyanis's great book on "The Great Transformation' .
It is not acceptable, that the centre point of our economic policy in the future will be a central bank, located in the institutional, political and cultural nirvana.
Instead of this we need a synchronization of the most important spheres of economic policy in the widest sense.
Just at the moment when we are completing the transition to the euro we need to coordinate and synchronize economic, monetary, budgetary, employment and industrial policy.
Institutionally we need a structured dialogue between the European central bank, the European Parliament and the Commission, like the one which exists for the Federal Bank in the USA, and we also need a structured dialogue between Ecofin, Ecosoc and the European Council.
