Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I share the Mr Nassauer's view of this because of the initial position following the Amsterdam Council, and because of the agreement by Mr Fischbach, which I already mentioned this morning, it can be hoped that successive presidencies will keep Mr Fischbach's word.
I hope they will say that they will apply Amsterdam and carry out obligatory consultation with the European Parliament.
This would require of the European Parliament a consequent and comprehensive reform of its rules of procedure, or we shall be unable to keep pace with our workload.
You expressed that very politely, Mr Nassauer.
I will put it in my own way a little more bluntly.
Part of what we produce here could well be left alone.
That does not alter the fact, however, that the priority list - Mr Rothley called it a collection for bits and pieces - has no apparent theme.
I have to say that I get the impression that the Council did not really quite know where to set its main emphasis in the priority list.
For that reason I shall first deal with the fact that the most important thing is what can be activated from amongst the policy areas covered by the ratification procedures which are about to end.
Now let me return to Europol, Mr Fischbach.
Here I must emphatically contradict you.
I have a very high regard for you and I know that you are a constant defender of the constitutional state, but you cannot stand here and say on the subject of the immunity agreement that, just because it still has no operational authority, we can simply leave the question of immunity to you.
Put another way, that is saying that when it has obtained the operational authority, then we shall take it away from it again.
Or that is how I interpret it.
Unfortunately you do not have a microphone, so I shall repeat what you have just said: "I did not say that' .
Thank you, Mr Minister, that is what I wanted to hear.
Now let me say that we no longer need to give the police this immunity, and I shall say why not.
The collection of data is also a violation of citizens' basic freedoms.
They can already do that.
I must tell you that wherever police forces exist, Mr Nassauer, and you are a former Minister of the Interior, wherever police forces exist there have to be two things in parallel.
When a police force is created with the right of interference in a citizen's freedoms, then there must be a legal guarantee and parliamentary control.
These do not exist here.
Now let me add that where the collection of data has to do with personal habits, race, origins, or sexual preferences, Europol officers can go ahead and collect all of it.
The individual citizen affected by Europol's activities must have the right to knowledge of that data and the right to control its availability.
So, if you are looking for a priority, Mr Fischbach, I would recommend to the Council that it withdraws the immunity regulation in its current form as quickly as possible.
Furthermore, may I quote Mr Nassauer's report, which was passed by this Parliament with a large majority: we, as the European Parliament, require that all accompanying regulations on Europol be submitted to the European Parliament for consultation before they enter the ratification procedure.
A start can be made straight away with the immunity regulation.
You quite rightly said in the priorities that the policy on asylum would become to a dramatic extent the subject of debate in European politics over the next few years.
I ask the Council, therefore - and I say this emphatically on behalf of our group, because we are giving asylum policy a leading position in our work - to prepare, as early as next year, specific ideas about how it will deal with the harmonization of asylum policy, both technically and in content.
I should like to say about content, that I assume - at least for as long as you, Mr Fischbach, are Council President - that the Council will not succumb to the temptation of believing that asylum policy can be devolved to Europe, simply because it is a delicate and touchy subject at national level which people would like to be rid of at that level, in order for minimum standards to be yet further reduced, something not achieved at national level.
That is an asylum policy which we will not support.
