Mr President, it is a good thing we are talking today in such detail about organized crime, and we shall have to do so more frequently in future.
That is because the level of analysis of their own activities is still higher amongst those who organize crime, than amongst those who make pretty speeches on the subject in this House.
Part of this debate must be that we clarify amongst ourselves what is meant by organized crime.
I should like to make that clear by using an example.
Two things may lie behind a pickpocket theft in a city.
Firstly, it may be a single act by a drug addict needing money to buy drugs.
That is not organized crime.
It may also be, however, that a group of specialists has been flown in to work the city systematically, stealing credit cards, and by evening they are sitting in their aircraft again over the Atlantic whilst couriers take the cards to other parts of the world, where they are used.
For that one can earn about ECU 25, 000.
The booty is changed into cash through a professional organization of fences, the cash is collected and re-introduced into normal commercial circulation by means of money laundering.
Here we are talking about organized crime, and the difference must be noted.
It must also be part of the discussion that we make clear to ourselves that there are interfaces between so-called normal society and organized crime.
What do I mean by that?
What makes the fight against money laundering so difficult is the fact that the techniques used in it differ in no way from those used by tax defaulters when they want to launder their illegal money.
For this reason there is a bodyguard of people, even in politics, who in the interests of their clients want to prevent stricter laws.
Those are the people for whom banking secrecy is more important than the secrecy of the confessional, even though they go to church on Sundays.
We must also include debate on weaknesses.
One obvious weakness, Mr Council President, is that only now do we have the study group on high-tech criminality and the use of technology in organized crime.
What world have the ministers been living in?
If one knows that organized crime can call on a great deal of money and possesses business structures, then it must be obvious that these organizations can buy in specialists and technical experts and even modern technology.
And they do just that.
They have been doing it for years.
It is high time for us to begin to consider how we can make certain technologies safer from abuse.
There must be debate like the one we had on dual use products in the armaments sector.
These were products which could be used for various tasks, and in whose whereabouts, therefore, we had to take an interest.
I should like to name two examples.
The equipments one needs to counterfeit credit cards can be obtained freely on the open market without a licence.
No one is concerned about where these machines go.
Whilst we take great care that no one gets hold of the paper needed for printing money, no one pays any attention to plastic money.
That is a contradiction.
A second example is that we have a proposal from the Commission on how one should deal with encryption.
Commerce does not want any limitations.
When I read this paper I see that commercial interests have completely taken over within the Commission, and security interests take second place.
We must not allow this.
