Mr President, as I follow today's debate in the House I find myself being reminded of the miracle of the strange enlargement of the loaves.
I want to stay with that image.
Because today we are still discussing the fairly abstract structures we can also quite quickly come to agreements and understandings on matters.
But you will have noticed in the most recent contributions that when it is actually a concrete question of a particular colleague's own preserves then generosity quickly recedes!
We have a cake which at the moment we divide into fifteen pieces both in our agricultural and our structural policy.
We know that we might possibly - so the Commission presumes - increase it with an annual growth of 2.5 %.
We then say that the pieces will remain almost the same, we shall just cut ECU 1.5 billion out of the agricultural and structural fund and we shall use what grows on top of it for the purpose of bringing in new members.
There are moreover some others - I come from this country too - who say that they want to pay less for the cake in future.
That is all very marvellous!
Those are in fact also the ones who scream loudest that the first candidates should become members of the European Union around the year 2000.
This is a madman's debate!
It is full of lies and deception!
I say here quite clearly: you need all your fellow citizens in your countries, in the countries of the fifteen Member States for the entry of central and eastern European countries, and we must convince the people in the fifteen Member States of the fact that the candidates can only become members if extremely drastic reforms take place!
Where are we living if a country like the Czech Republic has the lowest unemployment in the entire European continent?
Certainly not in reality!
Now we see of course where the crown has gone!
The problem which arises there is that there was so much downright lying, for if the public domains would get out of their aid policy, if the right to Community aid in the Czech Republic became a reality, then there would be unemployment figures which would rise in double figure leaps!
This lying debate which claims that those who shout loudest are the ones who really accept the central and eastern European countries is going to take place without me!
I want enlargement!
I really want it, but if I really want it then I have to make it possible.
Then I must also mobilize majorities for it in the Member States of the Union and in the eastern European countries.
Therefore it will be inevitable that we carry out agricultural reform and what is more within the Community.
It cannot possibly be a healthy relationship when the European Union supplies more potatoes to Poland today than the Poles supply potatoes to the European Union.
Not because the potatoes in Poland were of poorer quality but because we subsidize them with 50 pfennigs per mark or with half an ECU per ECU, which the Poles, however, are actually in a position to subsidize 15 %.
Therefore we are using our subsidized potatoes to oust their own potatoes from their own market!
Anybody who cannot understand that reform must begin in our own house, if we are to be capable of enlargement is completely and utterly our of touch with the real world!
The same applies to the structural policy.
When I hear that the Irish need money, when I hear that the objective 1 areas need money, when I look at my own Federal States in the Federal Republic of Germany, which on Friday in the Federal Parliament made the decision that everything in our structural policy must remain unchanged, then I tell you that that is impossible!
We need a reduction in the population limit, we need a reform, just for our own sakes.
But we need them even more for enlargement, for it is absolutely unrealistic to accept Member States which have a current per capita GNP on average 31 % of the Community GNP!
I once said in a discussion in the House of Lords in Great Britain that if we try to bring the two curves of 2.5 % growth in the Community and 4 % growth in the central European countries to a single point - and there we see moreover how far apart these countries are - then Slovenia needs fourteen years to reach the average GNP of the Community, Poland well over thirty and Romania even over fifty.
If then a colleague from the Green Party will sit down and explain to me that we would introduce a first and second division then I can only say that we have a ten-division league!
The countries are so very different and therefore to create the impression that one can pack up large parcels here and accept everybody quickly has something to do with heresy and absolutely nothing to do with politics!
Therefore I am very much in favour of us becoming much clearer and much more honest.
The Commission's solution - and I say that also to my own group - would be preferable for me.
We should have said five plus one, no more no less, for everything else is unreal!
This is all sham and facade, it is not realistic politics.
Here I entirely agree with what Klaus Hänsch said today.
I wish there were much more honesty, for that is what the people in eastern Europe really deserve - much more honesty, so that they really have a chance of becoming members!
