Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this year's budget we have tied up a package that, without exaggeration, can be regarded as a model, which owes its existence both to the first-rate combination of people involved, in the form of the rapporteur Mr Tillich and the Luxembourg Presidency, and to the willingness of all institutions to reach beyond their shadows, as it were, especially in the area of agriculture and the employment initiative.
The most important aspect, however, is that this budget will have an effect beyond its particular year, since it involves institutional changes which will continue into subsequent years.
Hence, in time, Parliament will have more influence over compulsory expenditure and enjoy greater transparency and fairness with the subsidies.
Yet shadows are not just outreached, but also cast, and extremely long shadows at that, cast over a chapter that is turning out to be a most sad one in the area of foreign affairs.
I am talking now about former Yugoslavia.
Winter is upon us, reconstruction is sluggish in many areas, and the Commission has nothing better to do than fail to spend a sum of over ECU 100 million this year in Bosnia.
The word of Mr van den Broek no longer counts for anything, it seems.
Even before the first reading he promised me personally that improvements and greater momentum would be jointly sought in a working party.
We are still all waiting in vain here in this House for the invitation.
So, with a heavy heart, the reserve remains in the budget, and until such a time as we recognize that the situation is improving.
We will listen to what Mr Westendorp has to say in the Committee on Budgetary Control on 21 January and get an idea of things again.
Then we will decide.
Mr Giansily -he is not here unfortunately, I do not see him - however much I might agree with him on Bosnia, my view alters when I look at the proposal for the ECSC budget.
We all know that unemployment is structural.
That is why any employment initiative worthy of the name should not serve the sectors that are subject to structural change but, on the contrary, be deployed where, structurally, new job opportunities can be created long term.
Incidentally, both Resider and Rechar are available for this area, neither of which were fully utilized either last year or this, a fact which makes the urgent provision of additional funds questionable anyway.
To this extent the initiative is arch-conservative, in the truest sense of the word, not reform-oriented.
I would find it most regrettable if it was to be put into practice at the end of the day.
