Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this is certainly no success story, either from the point of view of the amount of funding or its allocation.
An extra ECU 9 million for renewable energies is not a joke, it is a tragedy.
The relationship between what we know about climate change and what we are willing to spend in this area is really laughable.
The second item is of course welcome.
ECU 15 million for investigating more efficient ways of removing land-mines is clearly a good idea.
However, new mines are being manufactured, sold and laid all the time.
We need $ 40.5 million just to eliminate mines already laid in the former Yugoslavia.
Now to the next item.
We want to spend ECU 35 million on BSE research.
This goes against the grain with me for two reasons: first, the initial findings from BSE research have taken 10 years to produce.
We will again have sent thousands of chimpanzees to their death and we have absolutely no right to do so.
And all this without altering our agricultural policy.
Because our farming policy is quite simply the cause of BSE.
Yet we are doing nothing to change it.
All the while we are spending enormous sums of money on investigating something whose origins we have known about for ages.
The facts are obvious: if for the sake of sheer greed we want to turn a cud-chewing animal into a feeder on carrion, then we have got it all wrong.
We follow this up by doing something different along just the same lines.
We have made mistakes - with political approval - and now we are trying to catch up by spending the few funds available - and here I am referring to tax money, which itself does not grow on trees - in the hope of damping down the flames.
I am not impressed by this approach, in fact I am absolutely against it.
For this reason, Mr Linkohr, it is going to be very difficult for us indeed to support your report tomorrow.
I know that some money is better than none.
As my grandmother used to say, a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush.
But surely the time has come for us to take a good look at the direction we should be going in, and this is not it.
As far as land-mines are concerned, there seems to be not enough pressure on our political thinking to force a change.
I have even heard the argument that the production and marketing of these devices creates jobs.
The money earned from these jobs is then spent on finding out how to get rid of the products they created.
This is madness!
As usual, there is then nothing but pennies left over for the important things, namely renewable energies and future technologies.
This is a disgrace.
Thank you for your generosity!
