Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists I should like to thank all the rapporteurs for their intensive work over the last weeks and months.
I shall start with Mrs Cederschiöld, who had a difficult task to perform, namely to combine very different views, different understandings of terminology, various initiatives in the definition of organized crime, and the definition of the necessity for combatting it.
I think she has achieved this magnificently.
That does not alter the fact that there will certainly continue to be other basic views about one problem or another.
Despite this, we can concur with the basic concept of Mrs Cederschiöld's report.
That obviously applies also to the work of Rinaldo Bontempi and the preparatory work of Leoluca Orlando.
One problem runs through all the reports: through the opinion by Mrs Cederschiöld on the report of the High Level Group, and through the proposals that have been prepared by Orlando and Bontempi on individual measures.
It is music to our ears, Madam Commissioner, when you say that we as a Parliament play an important role, but I have to complete your sentence by adding "if unfortunately not in the right place' , because in the long term the European Parliament will have to be the primary legislative body for combatting organized crime in Europe, and I shall give my reason this morning for saying that.
There is no point in appealing to our colleagues in the national parliaments and asking them to hurry up with ratification of the current conventions please, because it is the right thing to do.
That makes no difference to the fact that for some fields of criminal activity we shall have to arrive at a Community solution, a European Union responsibility for combatting crime.
I shall try to make this clear to you by using practical examples.
In recommendation 19, which Mrs Cederschiöld commented on in her report, the High Level Group wants to integrate the cooperation of penal authorities.
Mrs Cederschiöld has said that cooperation should not be centralized, but take place directly between the penal authorities.
Then she proposes a multilingual glossary of various legal terms.
I accept that that is a fascinating idea.
One day I should like to consult that work, just for fun.
After Mr Orlando's speech, however, I have to ask myself if the Mafia issues a multilingual glossary of legal terms.
Or perhaps it is working on one, while we wait.
That is the real problem, and it is also the problem, Mr Fischbach, which has confronted us since Amsterdam.
In Amsterdam we experienced what seemed to me to be a turning-point, as I said yesterday to my colleagues discussing the Méndez de Vigo and Tsatsos report.
Amsterdam was the start of a new phase, not a continuation of the Maastricht phase.
The reason for this is that with increasing economic intensification, and the addition now of the single currency, the accompanying - I might call it brave - de facto state control of internal security simply is not receiving equally necessary attention because national exemption continues to be claimed as a priority.
Here, as in the past, national exemption is presented as a primary objective.
For some elements we may possibly have advanced, for instance, political asylum policy - although my personal impression here is that this has arisen more out of opportunism than because of internal policy, in order to sweep it away somewhere else and remove this unpleasant subject from our agendas.
For all other subjects to do with intensification, however, we saw at Amsterdam that we have a five-year deadline, at the end of which there has to be a unanimous resolution for transfer to the Community framework.
And I wonder if in the final count all 15 Member States will not in fact claim priority for their national interests.
An end has now been put to this with the report Mr Orlando had to write - I commiserate with him on the task - and the title needs another look.
We are being consulted about writing a checklist to examine national implementation of what were previously seen as Community measures.
I prophesy now that we will soon be presented with a joint consultative measure to see what measures the European Union should adopt in order to flag up insufficient implementation at national level of what were previously seen as Community measures.
I do not think this will take us any further in the suppression of organized crime.
In my view we need a courageous decision which says that, if we detect that there are criminal areas that cannot be controlled at national level, either by police or penal measures, then these tasks must be delegated to the European Union within the competency of a Commissioner with the legislative authority of the European Parliament.
That is the first obvious point.
The second point is that this may be just in the future, but I think we should define it precisely here today.
The second point is also that we must in the meantime live with the fact that things are not as we should like to have them, and that we must make compromises.
In making compromises, however, that is, when defining what is achievable now, we must show more courage.
More courage means to me that we must arrive at the closest possible integration within a basis of inter-state cooperation - what Mrs Cederschiöld tried to demonstrate in her report.
But that must not follow the pattern of Europol - and that has to be passed to you, Mr President of the Council.
Based on what I know from the debate in the German Bundestag and Bundesrat, delegates in the national parliaments fear that fundamental laws of a democratic constitution may be violated by the creation of this police force.
If, when considering the proposals for the immunity of police forming a European police force, we at national level have to spend more time debating why Europol officers actually need integrated immunity than we do debating what they need in the way of technical equipment and training to hunt down criminals, then I have to say that the Council has the basic concept wrong.
At the same time I should draw attention to the following.
The considerations introduced with the Europol Report, and which are repeated in every other Community measure such as the report by the High Level Group, are quite relevant to realizing that the end of border controls within the European Union, abandoned customs barriers, and the European Union itself with its huge economic activity, offer increasing opportunities for gangs of crooks and organized crime.
The Commissioner has herself drawn attention to the fact that in our own areas of responsibility the acceptance of fraud and corruption is on the increase, but in my view we have still failed to realize that we must then pay more attention to the qualifications of officials and organizations which are supposed to combat that situation.
You referred to the Falcone programme, Madam Commissioner.
I think that is essential.
We need officials who are capable of handling modern technology.
We need crime officers who are capable of understanding modern economic systems.
I am fairly certain that in future it will be more important to have better police who are able to operate the most modern computer equipment, rather than to have faster cars with flashing blue lights.
For that reason the main emphasis now being placed on integration of training and qualifications is one of the most important steps taken in recent years.
We have behind us a long period of very intensive cooperative work.
On behalf of my group I should like to end by thanking not just the rapporteurs, but also the Council President, Mr Fischbach: you promised us in Luxembourg that you wanted to abide by all the Amsterdam results that were in Parliament's interests, including the obligatory consultation of the European Parliament, for all third pillar measures.
In the cases we are considering you have done that.
We should like to ask you to hand that on to the next presidency, as far as you are able to do so, because the European Parliament has some important input to make, as you have seen from this morning's debate and as you have yourself mentioned.
