Mrs Moreau, that is precisely what I was saying: think first, and then if you still do not agree, I grant you...
I am against monopolies as a general rule.
I do not claim a monopoly for my opinions.
It's perfectly clear, I am against monopolies, and so entirely against monopolies that I do not want one of my own.
Mr President, I can say to Mr van Dam that I am in complete agreement with what he has said.
And this is precisely where the problem lies: we, the Commission, have not succeeded in making this clear, as I can inform Mrs Schmidbauer too.
I am not saying that we are always right, but in this case we really did make a self-sacrificial effort, in Parliament and in the Council, to fight for a clear deregulation timetable, which obviously through competition would have helped much more, and much more efficiently, to produce the very thing we desire, namely a fully functional, competitive postal service.
Yet this did not come about - I do not need to reiterate the fact - since the thing you are complaining about you rejected yourself.
Mr Ferber proposed it.
Yes, Mrs Schmidbauer, I do not forget a thing like that!
I am one of those people who consider precisely what they enter into and, if they enter into it, accept responsibility for it afterwards.
You failed to support these amendments at the time.
Now you say we need them.
That is not quite right somewhere, and that has very little to do with the 'snail mail' - a nice image.
That is the problem, in fact, that in many cases today what we have got is the snail mail.
Which brings me to the single market.
Mr Wolf, I welcome you into the camp of the firm advocates of the single market.
You are not often in attendance here.
No, he does not often attend, but it is great when he does.
There is always more joy over one repentant sinner than a true believer.
Only, this is the problem, that we would use the single market - if we had one - even more as an instrument against sluggish postal administrations.
Because it is perfectly clear that the Dutch postal service, for instance, has pulled out of Reims II.
Why?
Quite simply because it is competitive.
Remailing takes place in the main via Holland.
We must not kid ourselves.
Moreover, it cannot be prohibited under single market rules.
I would like to state this here and now.
Because under single market rules I cannot dictate to any company where it should be domiciled and what activities it should pursue either inside or outside its native country.
That is not on!
If we wish to apply single market rules, pure and simple, then we arrive at a belated belief in competition, if you like, which is of no use to us because, thanks to your decision, Mrs Schmidbauer, we are in a situation in which the reserved services still ensure that many people are not surrendering to competition.
Now the Commission is wringing its hands in trying to make the best out of this situation.
That is why we have said to people 'Suggest something to us!' and that is Reims II.
We are reviewing it now.
If it does not work, then it will have to be left to the Member States.
For here, too, the Commission has run out of options.
The reserved services no longer allow us to intervene, unless it is in terms of controlling competition.
And that can sometimes be very painful.
We are in this situation now.
As I said, though, the Commission is not keen to turn the tables and say: why have you decided everything this way?
Now you must bear the consequences!
We are obviously trying to soften the effects of this.
There is one thing, however, that I cannot allow to go unchallenged, namely that we were the ones to make such slow progress.
We tried to the best of our ability.
We first had a majority in Council.
Then suddenly we did not have one any longer because one Member State deemed the post so important that it moved heaven and earth to turn the majorities around.
This Member State is able to cut funds for the army, but not the postal service.
This shows how dramatic the situation is.
