Mr President, the contents of the directive and of the report on safety inspections for third country aircraft were not at issue in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
Though this may seem like a purely administrative process, it has to be said that the fate and lives of many people will depend on this particular resolution.
In February 1996 a Boeing 757 operated by the Turkish company Birgen Air crashed in the Dominican Republic.
All 189 people on board, most of them tourists returning home to Germany, were killed.
This accident involved a third country aircraft manufacturer, a third country airport of departure, a third country flight operator and a third country pilot.
This complexity was reflected in the accident investigations which followed.
In Germany the accident triggered a fierce public debate on safety standards, landing and take-off bans, blacklists, etcetera.
The search for the cause of the accident and for those responsible for it saw some real buck passing, with the tour operator blaming the airline, the airline blaming the airport maintenance crew, then the plane makers and even the German government.
At the end of the day it was apparent that because of competitive pressures and the liberalization of air traffic procedures all those involved had adopted sloppy working practices and that the almost voluntary system of aircraft inspections worldwide were simply inadequate.
If in Europe a third country aircraft is banned from landing in EU country A because of some particular technical fault, it simply diverts to EU country B. For this reason alone I believe that we must introduce common regulations to ensure the safety of aircraft passengers and crew.
Such a directive would allow all information on pre-flight ramp inspections to be centrally compiled and would lay down standards for aircraft inspection work.
The Commission could then issue flight bans on certain aircraft or could even prohibit certain airline companies from taking-off or landing at all EU airports.
We in Parliament call for a safety check on all aircraft which have been reported for technical faults, or which are suspected of such, and not just the 10 %.
We also demand that the flight ban list be published every 3 months.
This directive will certainly lead to better standards in aviation safety.
However, binding regulations are still required on cabin crew working hours, in order to reduce the number of human errors attributable to excess fatigue, and on training standards for maintenance crews, in order to cut the number of technical malfunctions on a more consistent basis.
There is therefore still much to be done by the Commission, by the Council and by this Parliament, before these vital regulations can become a reality.
