Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, whether the ominous, much cited glass of water is half full or half empty can only be gauged by the thirst of the person looking at it.
I can assure you, the thirst of the Heads of State and of Government for European democracy in Amsterdam was, God knows, very slight.
The thirst for European democracy, for a basic social order in Europe, for ecological progress, must have been very slight to make the glass seem half full to many of them.
I can at any rate assure one of the previous speakers, Mr Janssen van Raay, a glass of Mouton-Rothschild tastes different.
What this House will resolve today about the Treaty of Amsterdam is legally of no consequence.
Many people, quite rightly, are complaining about this.
So, we can only offer the electorate one course which counts in politics as basic, namely the truth about the Amsterdam Treaty and the future state of the EU.
That is the only opportunity, the only power and the only duty this House has.
Yet what is the truth?
Is it the contention of the rapporteurs that the Amsterdam Treaty is a step towards the building up of Europe, or are we not closer to the truth if we open another report, a very discreetly treated one, a very secret one, conceived in this House too, the report from the Intergovernmental Conference working party to the President of the European Parliament?
This says that all in all, the new treaty only represents the measure of the national and even nationalistic electoral aspirations of its signatories without any forward-looking objectives.
Do we not come closer to the truth when we follow this report further and it states that above all, the Amsterdam Treaty represents a strikingly clear failure compared with the original mandate of the Intergovernmental Conference and the three axes around which it was constructed, namely greater popular responsiveness on the part of the European Union, the reform of the institutions in a more democratic and efficient Union and the bolstering of the Union's capacity to act externally.
It may be true that we have only the truth to offer the people of Europe today.
That might not be much, but we should not make it anything less!
We should not owe that to the people as well!
For this truth will be the basis for whether we find a way out of the crisis in the Union.
Either this House will find this way out or no-one will find it.
That is the task facing this Parliament, and it should not withhold the truth to achieve this.
It will not be able to cover up the failure of the national governments.
As to the failure of Parliament, today's sitting will decide.
Amsterdam has already decided on the failure of the national governments.
