Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, seeing the participation this evening, I can only say that the debate is obviously about small change.
It seems pretty unimportant to all of us, but the scale of this small change is 70 billion coins, and for this reason we in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have taken it very seriously so far, and we have seriously tried to participate in the discussion about creating the new coins, by proposing amendments among other things.
The mint directors and finance ministers saw it otherwise.
They have prepared texts, proposed strategies.
But the Council did not accept what we discussed here, with quite small exceptions.
My personal opinion is essentially that what we discussed here at first reading was right, and that what we decided was right.
The breakdown of the coins, the increasing sizes, recognition by the blind and visually handicapped, also the old, traditional minting methods - all things which we have discussed and decided here - seem vitally important to me.
Last time we also defended the national side of the coins.
That is now written into the Council's report, but we are very sad that our opinions were not accepted here.
However, my opinion is that what Mrs Sollwedel-Schäfer demanded here, in other words, the reintroduction of the earlier amendments, does not take us much further.
The scenario is clear.
In my opinion we should concentrate on two amendments, as we did in the economic committee, i.e. first the whole range of demands which have already been mentioned: increasing size, recognition of coins by blind people, recognition of coins by machines, protecting the larger coins from fraud.
We have proposed this and got it through the economic committee.
We should also decide on it in Parliament.
Secondly, we should pursue the matter of gold.
We are not suffering from gold fever.
People might have the idea that just before Christmas we caught gold fever, but we did not.
We want there to be a 100 euro gold coin, which would continue old traditions and at the same time, as we have argued here, reduce Europe's gold reserves.
I think it is important to state again that protecting coins from forgery is very important to us, particularly as there are approximately 6 million coin-operated machines in Europe.
This involves the choice of alloys and recognition by machines.
In this connection, let it be said that obviously not only the coins must be safe from forgery, but also all the notes.
We have emphasized that many times.
They must meet the highest security standards, so that they are also safe from forgery in future.
Let me plead once again for the amendments proposed by the economic committee and accepted there by a large majority to be accepted here in the House as well.
