Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
I am very pleased that we are discussing this subject today in the European Parliament, because awareness of animal protection and animal welfare has a high priority in the minds of Europeans.
To this end, inspection of transport conditions and the condition of the animals is necessary during import as well as export.
Naturally, sanctions are also needed for cases where controls disclose contravention of EU standards.
Sanctions might consist, for example, of withdrawal of export licences, or import quotas granted to third countries.
Authorization for the export of live animals should be made dependent upon a certificate from an official veterinary surgeon, who should confirm that transportation is in order.
The strict standards applied in Austria, that is, a maximum transport duration of six hours, should become valid for the whole of Europe.
I would regard it as a first step, however, if the international transport duration for cross-border traffic were reduced initially to eight hours.
Furthermore, the proportion of live cattle to total exports has shrunk in recent years from 16 % to about 10 %.
It should also be taken into account that these figures include exports of domestic and breeding cattle, which have risen from 16 % to 28 %.
So, from this point of view it is a positive development.
It should also be noted that the compensation for live cattle is much less than for carcasses.
On behalf of farmers, however, I have to say that a complete switch from live transport is impossible, but that transport time should be kept as short as possible.
European farmers have the closest possible interest in seeing that their animals are not subjected to distress during transportation, because pain and stress have a detrimental effect on the quality of the meat.
In general I support the export of meat, but at the same time there is a need for encouragement of the construction of abattoirs and cold storage installations in those third countries which are the main customers of the EU, and who do not possess any such means of keeping food fresh.
For this reason we in the European Union must build these installations, in order to make it possible for customers in third countries to buy meat instead of live animals.
The general public is very sensitive to this aspect, and I welcome that.
