Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to congratulate Mrs van Dijk on this excellent report.
It was and is indeed a terrible situation that we have here, in the way animals are treated to an extent and in a manner that can only be described as inhuman.
I should like fully to support the resolution of the Commission to issue a directive on the design of transporter vehicles, whether they be cars, trains or whatever.
We have also seen in the film how animals are herded together, how they die in the trucks, and how nothing is done to provide a half-way reasonable method of transport suitable for animals.
Secondly, the equipment of abattoirs has quite rightly been touched on.
Some of them have no weekend duty staff.
Animals die and are left to lie there, they are not removed when they die.
These are quite unimaginable conditions.
Thirdly, the cancellation of any kind of financial subsidy for such transporters that are not in accordance with regulations and not up to today's standards.
On the contrary; we need strict penalties to prevent these things from continuing.
This financial system must also be used to achieve something close to all our hearts, namely that as few animal transports as possible, as few movements of live animals as possible, take place in Europe, and that freezer transportation is available.
That must be our primary objective.
This is not matter of high politics in accordance with the standards of journalists and politicians, but of something where the EU can show that it takes the concerns of citizens seriously, where the EU - the Commission, Council and this Parliament, too - can demonstrate that when citizens worry about a problem, when they have an emotional problem with something, the EU goes into action, and fast.
For this reason I ask not just for a yes vote, but I also ask the Commissioner or the Commission to seize this great opportunity to show Europe's citizens that the EU is able to act speedily on matters that concern the public; to show that the EU is able to act fast wherever citizens think that action is needed.
