Mr President, today we have before us five reports on which we have to rule.
Four concern the international agreements and, as we have already heard, one concerns conservation and control measures in the Antarctic.
The aspect of the international agreements which is relevant to fisheries policy is expressed in the decision of the European Parliament taken on Wednesday of this week concerning the Treaty of Amsterdam, which was also prompted by pressure from the Committee on Fisheries.
What is required is for the assent procedure to be applied to all major international agreements once and for all.
The fact that previously we were only listened to made it difficult, and in many cases impossible, for us - Mrs Bonino and others - to work efficiently.
I am pleased to admit that, mainly thanks to the force of her personality, Mrs Bonino has improved the situation in the past, especially with regard to information which now reaches us much more quickly.
However, it continues to be the case that the only way the European Parliament can exert any real influence on fisheries agreements with third countries is if the assent procedure is regarded as a general legal basis.
Only then will we be able to use the proper means to implement the guidelines on third country agreements which were jointly worked out and recently adopted by the European Parliament.
Before, sooner or later, another Intergovernmental Conference is held and we hopefully gain greater influence here in this House, we can hope for a positive outcome at the European Court of Justice because of international agreements - in this case the international agreement with Mauritania.
This would really be a big step forward if a judgement was given in our favour.
The result will hopefully be known soon and we look forward to it in eager anticipation.
In the meantime we have to work with the options that are available to us.
They are restricted, at least formally, to amendments from the Committee on Fisheries which the European People's Party group is pleased to support.
However, we are unable to support the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgets.
The requirement to inform and consult Parliament on time is right on principle and in future blocking measures by us are no longer out of the question either.
However, this raises the legal question whether we are entitled to encroach upon a current agreement and therefore the legal mandate of the Commission.
But something has to happen!
I would therefore ask you not to climb down on the outstanding key policy issues.
Otherwise other people will be treading on our toes and our budget will be threatened with cuts.
That will hurt!
We have to avoid it at all costs!
