Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we, the European Parliament, decided upon full labelling of novel foods with the implementation of the novel foods regulation, so that consumers would be given the option of making their own purchasing decisions.
I would like to remind you that we resolved to provide consumers with information about all the characteristics and nutritional properties of food products, such as composition, nutritional value and intended use, which distinguish genetically modified food from conventional food.
Labelling of foodstuffs produced using genetic engineering does not amount to some kind of health warning as far as I am concerned.
I see it rather as being essential if society is to accept and trust new technology.
Nevertheless, labelling does give anyone wanting to steer clear of genetically engineered products for any reason the option of deliberately avoiding them.
I should stress again that our overriding concern must be to ensure that consumers are not exposed to nutritional deficiencies or other health risks through the consumption of novel foods and ingredients.
These products should only be put on the market once three requirements have been met: first, these products should not represent any danger to the consumer; second, there should be no attempt to mislead; and third, they should not be so different from conventional foodstuffs that when eaten normally they can result in nutritional deficiencies.
Because of the wide variety of products covered by the novel foods regulation, they generally need to be considered case by case.
The Commission has attempted to set out the arrangements for genetically modified maize and soya in its draft Regulation.
The Commission's proposal stipulates that genetically modified products must always be labelled if they contain genetically modified DNA.
This method is bound to lead to the labelling of more foodstuffs than if proteins only had to be checked.
The label for any foodstuff containing genetically modified DNA or modified proteins must include the following words in the list of ingredients or in another clearly visible place: ' Produced from genetically modified maize/soya' .
Even so, the analysis method suggested by the Commission is not compatible with the novel foods regulation or with the Luxembourg Summit Declaration.
I therefore call upon the Commission to amend its proposal so that the labelling scheme under the novel foods regulation is fully and comprehensively implemented.
Any limitation of the labelling scheme put forward by the European Parliament is unacceptable as far as I am concerned.
