Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, why do we need a European legal framework for public contracts?
This is an important part of the European internal market and in the Green Paper the Commission has tried to carry out a stocktaking exercise.
But we also need it to ensure the rational deployment of public funds, a transparent and fair contracts system, competition among suppliers and maximum access by companies to the enormous procurement market, which is worth over ECU 700 billion.
If we cannot guarantee a competitive system, then will shall face the threat of corruption, excessive prices, unfair treatment of competitors and even bad investments.
It is therefore important that we should address ourselves to this matter.
The Commission has described its experience with the previous system.
Only 3 % of public contracts were awarded on a transborder basis.
The conversion of legal provisions into national law has become bogged down and even the European system of mutual legal recognition is lacking in equivalence.
These procedures are bureaucratic and are not easily understood, particularly by SMEs.
As a result, the internal market does not function correctly in this area and it is now important for us to make practical proposals to remedy the situation.
What are the Commission's proposals here?
Initially it has adopted a relatively pessimistic stance by citing the legal recalcitrance of the Member States as the reason for the lack of stimulation in transborder public contracts, and proposes integration with other target areas, such as environment, social and consumer protection.
It also wishes to acquire additional powers of sanction, such as the establishment of a central body to deal with fraud and corruption - which is surely the responsibility of the Member States.
On a more positive side, it wants to promote education and the introduction of information technology in order to improve transparency for the benefit of SMEs.
No proposals have been made to develop the legal framework, for instance article 8 of the sectional guideline relating to telecommunications.
I wish to congratulate and thank Mr Tappin for his excellent work.
However, the report of the Committee on Economic Affairs contains a number of inconsistencies which do not concur with what we have discussed in Parliament and indeed in the hearing.
It does not for example set reasonable targets for raising threshold values in the services sector.
It proposes an accreditation procedure in the area of technical dialogue, which is surely nonsense.
No proposals are made for handling telecommunications in a liberalized and privatized market.
If the internal market is our real objective, then we should not be making the regulations more stringent and more difficult for SMEs.
Alien rules only serve to confuse, more bureaucracy only pushes costs higher and impedes transparency.
Guidelines are becoming more complicated, rather than less.
We do not want to have a super-bureaucracy in Brussels, we just want the Member States to do their homework.
Those are our party objectives.
