Madam President, I want to confine my remarks to the repairs clause.
This will soon become reality if we accept the suggestion that the 180 car and motorcycle manufacturers concerned will end up charging more for repairs and, consequently, for insurance.
This will happen if we do not accept what Parliament has already decided and what the Commission has already proposed.
This means - and here I reinforce what has just been said - that we are actually proposing to prohibit the reproduction of visible components.
This would result in a monopoly, in other words the car manufacturing companies would be in a position to dictate prices.
Of course we do not want this.
We do not want increased repair charges any more than we want to see jobs lost.
I would just like to point out that jobs are going to be lost not only on the production line but also, quite understandably, in the trade sector where spare parts are sold, and of course in turn in the free-market factories which would no longer be able to operate to full capacity.
Jobs are going to be lost there too.
We should be advocating both sides of the argument, that is to say both original replacement parts and reproduction parts.
Both sectors should be tolerated in the same way as we accept authorized repairers and free-market workshops.
After all, this is the beauty of the free market and it should remain so.
This approach is entirely justified when one realises that car manufacturers actually have to buy-in 70 % of their original parts.
The problem of reproduction parts is therefore not as blatant as many would suggest.
The conclusions to be drawn from this are as follows: yes to design protection - but with a repair clause which allows the reproduction of visible components under quite specific conditions, namely that the original manufacturer is notified that copyright royalties apply.
The Council has taken the side of the motor companies in this, and in tomorrow's vote we in Parliament should support the consumer and the free market.
