Mr President, I welcome the submission of the report.
It shows clearly what actions the Commission has taken during the BSE crisis - taken late, but taken - and what actions it has neglected to take.
This means that many of Parliament's demands have been put into effect, and some have remained open.
The rapporteur, Mr Böge, has spoken of a bill of exchange on the future.
But first I put the question whether the Commission can be released from its political responsibility.
I would like to suggest a comparison.
Austrian criminal law recognizes the concept of making good the damage, so that if the accused is only slightly guilty, he can be acquitted.
Let me now stay with my image and discuss how the Commission is making good the damage.
The efforts of the Commission to make good the damage can be clearly recognized in the report.
It speaks of a new openness, the responsibilities of the Directorate-General for Consumer Policy and Health Protection were extended, and actions to restore the function of the market were taken.
The Commission has thus attempted to make good the damage.
But in the end this all happened only because of the massive pressure from Parliament and an indignant public, and unfortunately it happened far too late!
The EP drew attention to the BSE problem as early as 1990.
For far too long, the Commission let itself be led by the nose by individual Member States in carrying out its duty of control, without doing anything about it.
I know that the Commission itself is not directly responsible for the individual Member States' lack of will to carry out the controls, but it should have fulfilled its role as guardian of the treaties long ago.
There lies the politically guilty behaviour of the Commission.
I come back to my image.
Is acquittal of the Commission by Parliament justified?
Unfortunately, article 144 of the treaty only provides for a vote of no confidence against the entire Commission.
As long as this threshold exists, it will continue to be difficult to demand political responsibility in future.
I regret this, and the citizens of Europe will not understand it!
