Mr President, Mr Commissioner, it is certainly right that we do not submit an endless long wish list, but concentrate on what is politically necessary.
I say quite openly that on the one hand it is right that the number of legislative projects is reduced after the stormy internal market development.
But to me, what is really missing after this internal market development is the strengthened effort by the Commission for checking, purification, removal of bureaucracy - and I therefore say to you straight away, set up a task force which just goes in to thin out the existing control machinery, bring it closer to the citizens and in many things bring it together so that it can be read and handled from outside.
Quite briefly, about four points: We shall obviously follow very closely how you keep to the obligations into which you have entered regarding BSE, and not only on the basis of the six-monthly reports, but also between them in the committees.
We shall continue to follow developments with you in the spirit of cooperation and solidarity, and insist that you put it all into effect.
In the field of agricultural policy - I want to make this very clear - it would have been better to talk from the beginning about adjustment and further development of the reform of 1992, and not to act as if you wanted to re-invent the wheel every five years.
Use the time until March to incorporate the critical points which have been mentioned here in Parliament, so that this reform becomes more appropriate for the future.
I would like to say very clearly that the colleagues in the Committee on Fisheries are disappointed.
They are missing, among many other things, information about international fisheries agreements for 1998, apart from the mention of the financial instrument for structural alignment.
Please put that right in the Committee on Fisheries.
Let me say about the budget and financial policy that I expect on the basis of the decisions in Luxembourg that not only a report on the capital resources system will be produced, but also that you will make proposals about auditing the capital resources system.
In the field of budget control, it is important for us that full independence of UCLAF should be set in motion on the basis of the Bösch report and an inter-institutional agreement, and that progress should finally be made in the field of legal cooperation regarding protection of the financial interests of the Community.
