Mr President, I would like towards the end of our debate, which has quantitatively certainly been extensive but also qualitatively appropriate to the subject, to try, both for the relationship of the European Union with Latvia and also for its neighbour states Estonia and Lithuania, in other words for the relationship of the European Union with the Baltic states at least to indicate a greater connection in time and space.
One of the topical and more particularly future basic questions of European policy will be the form of relationship between the European Union and the Russian Federation.
In this matter I can only agree with Mr Paasilinna.
It is clearly in the interests of the European Union that this relationship should be constructive and stability - orientated.
In this respect particularly important is direct cross-border regional cooperation.
This is shown particularly by experiences of recent years of an increasingly intensive cooperation, the formation of numerous euro regions on the eastern borders of the European Union.
We should project these explicitly positive experiences of recent years and decades into the future.
It is precisely the three Baltic states which would as members of the European Union be potential partners in cross-border cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation.
The Baltic states could thus make a specific, almost irreplaceable, substantial contribution to the solution of one of the key problems of European policy.
The next and most important condition for this is the possibility of being able to join the European Union.
Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania will only be able to perceive and desire this desirable political function, that is supporters of cooperation between the European Union and the Russian Federation when they are firmly anchored in the European Union and when they feel themselves to be equally valuable and justified partners.
Accession strategy should not be characterized only by the current framework conditions but also by future factors which are deliberately influenced and formed by us.
To enter the European Union as quickly as possible would also help to solve other marginal problems, about which I can unfortunately not go into detail at the moment.
