Mr President, it was yearning for democracy that brought down the Berlin Wall.
The impetus for this democracy movement came from Prague and Gdansk.
Now we have a unique opportunity to create an entire Europe of peace, of democracy and freedom.
The Commission's plan is however not exactly an invitation, but rather an obstacle for those who in previous decades, at the cost of great personal privation, supported the idea of a democratic Europe in the east.
The basic decision of Copenhagen to accept the central and eastern European states was the logical political consequence stemming from the historical situation.
Agenda 2000 lags far behind that.
It contains no convincing strategy for enlargement.
On the one hand high ranking politicians from the Member States bask in praise in eastern capitals for their statements about future prospects.
On the other hand they could not agree in Amsterdam on reforms which would make the EU democratic and capable of enlargement.
Germane institutional questions were deferred.
As a consequence the European enlargement process now faces disaster, since the preparatory work for the acceptance of new applicants has begun but there is as yet neither a substantial strategy nor a timetable.
Now we are trying, by means of petty reforms, to cheat on the timetable.
Therefore the Commission's proposal to begin negotiations only with five plus one corresponds to the readiness in the Council to provide in future the 20 Commissioners equivalent to one per EU Member State.
In Agenda 2000 there are no concrete proposals or ideas to solve the problems associated with a possible second wave of applicants.
The impression is thus created that the five plus one enlargement merely opens the door to the EU a crack and it will then close again for a long time.
With this separation of the applicants from central and eastern Europe into welcome rich countries and the poor backyard, the Commission is already causing a political mess.
The rejected not only have the disadvantages due to the drawing of international borders in Europe, but they are also held responsible by their people for the whole wretched state of affairs.
Their efforts to make progress with democratic reforms and economic stabilization in their countries receive no international recognition.
The negative effect on the readiness of foreign capitalists to invest is preprogrammed.
Great hopes are vested in this parliament.
It is possible for us to send out a signal that we do not want any drawing of borders in this continent.
For a long time a clear majority in the Foreign Policy Committee has spoken out in favour of supporting the democratic forces in central and eastern European countries and not giving them the boot.
But why, dear Social Democrats, are you toppling over like ninepins?
Is it a sound argument that merely to accept Estonia will have massive effects on the free trade and free movement area between the Baltic states, now of all times?
Dear Christian Democrats, why are you so laboriously withdrawing from a position which has been achieved, like the one in point 3 of the Oostlander Report?
We in the Green Party are in favour of the common start of negotiations with all applicants who have created the necessary democratic conditions and who recognize human rights and the rights of minorities.
Of course it is sensible to have a differentiated form of entry and negotiation process.
We give top priority to the cooperative character and the multilateral dimension of the entry process and therefore demand a substantial strengthening of the European Conference.
We support the proposal of the French Government which seeks to extend cooperation to further areas such as institutional reform, economic cooperation and cross border projects.
The European conference also offers the chance of political dialogue with Turkey and Slovakia and will not let it be interrupted.
Civilian methods of conflict regulation in this country have of course not yet been developed by the European Union.
In Agenda 2000 scant regard is paid to the progress made by the central and eastern European countries towards meeting the environmental and social standards of the EU.
We regard that as a central, important matter.
In addition we need comprehensive and targeted support of a financial, legal and technical nature.
In terms of the political challenge which enlargement on our European continent represents, the Commission must be corrected and needs more courage to be honest.
