Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for years the subject of leghold traps has regularly featured on our agenda.
And for years the European Community has supported internationally agreed humane trapping standards.
That was and remains a good thing, and I believe, contrary to your view, Mr Pimenta, that it has been successful.
The agreement between the EU, Canada and the Russian Federation could of course be improved.
But something has actually happened, which we could scarcely have hoped for years ago.
There is now a treaty, and countries are committing themselves to implement animal protection measures on the basis of treaties.
That is why I think it is right that we have taken the measures adopted up to now, but we must also start to be reasonable, by which I mean reasonable as we now understand it, because we were also being reasonable before.
I would like to tell you very quickly why I believe the Parliament should support this agreement, despite many reservations.
This agreement will achieve more than anyone could have imagined a few years ago.
Canada and Russia are finally willing to enter into binding commitments.
Europe's interest in this matter used to be regarded purely as interference in internal affairs.
We now have a chance to achieve positive changes in these countries in favour of animal protection.
The agreement goes beyond leghold traps and also covers other traps.
I would quite simply like to draw your attention to that.
Only by consistently implementing the agreement do we have a chance to show that further improvements in protection standards are necessary and possible.
Everyone involved must have a chance to bring their experience and knowledge to the implementation process.
That is the essential task facing us.
I particularly have in mind indigenous trappers and animal protection organizations.
Trappers have already gone beyond what is now found in these agreements.
They have already taken things much further.
Finally, I believe that it is a tactical error to reject the agreement with Canada just because of the current negotiations with the USA.
If we do that, then we will be seen as people who always want to say no in this area, and then the European Parliament would not been taken seriously by anyone any more.
Let us say yes to the agreement between the EU and Canada, and ask for permanent involvement, because that is important.
Let us show realism and wisdom.
