Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are confronted with a period of decision-making, and when President Gil-Robles began in the early stages with Robert Schuman and the Treaty of Paris, I had the impression that decades of European development had reached their culmination.
Ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, expansion and its concomitant institutional and financial reforms, all these will allow us an opportunity to finish this work in broad areas.
We must ask ourselves, however, if we really do have the means for this, and for that reason we must concentrate on a number of things.
The main points mentioned by the Commission concerning the euro, employment, expansion, the role in the World, and citizens' rights, are, I think the correct ones.
I think it is right when the President of the Council says one should use Maastricht methods for employment as well, because those countries that then do not participate in such a coordination of employment policy will, because of poor results, end up having a problem justifying their actions to their electorates.
I think that is a good start!
Our unbelievable success - which two years ago no one would have imagined possible - concerning stability in preparation for the euro is, I think, proof that this method is the right one.
This European Union has turned into a stable community such as no one would have imagined possible.
When we approach expansion, however, we must be equipped with the right instruments for us to accomplish the tasks and responsibilities.
It is of no consequence the European Union collecting responsibilities, but not having the instruments to control them so that the citizen can perceive ability and results.
For this reason one important prerequisite for the expansion is the extension of the qualified majority decision.
If we do not achieve this, and if this is not systematically prepared over the next few years, then we shall not have a strengthened Union.
The Commission, the Council and we ourselves, therefore, are under challenge to do a great deal in this area.
It is not so much a matter of obtaining new responsibilities for Europe, but of our needing instruments with which to meet existing responsibilities.
And where the Amsterdam Treaty offers opportunities for it, we should establish a sensible method.
For this reason, Mr Commission President, provision must be made, for example, for making the Planning Unit for foreign policy not into some new for m of Council activity on the Coreper pattern, but it must be so designed, with the participation of the Commission, that it provides added communal value.
The Commission must prepare itself for a future where we have a new troika, in which the Commissioner for foreign policy plays an important role.
Thus, the Commission should be thinking now abut a reorganization, in order for it to be fit for the new opportunities, for it to build an operation on this base.
The treaty has potential, but this potential has to be utilised by preparing oneself for it accordingly.
As for our role in the world, we are approaching the next WTO round.
We were unable, however, to make the necessary decisions in the Amsterdam Treaty, so we must now prepare ourselves to see how we can nevertheless achieve our tasks and serve our mutual interests.
One might perhaps consider a fast track solution to make the Commission capable of negotiation.
Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, we need a cost-benefit analysis of the European Union.
If we talk about costs you all rush to point out that you pay too much, receive too little, and must have more!
But we want at last to have the benefits of the European Union quantified for each country.
Once this has been made clear, then we can hold a balanced debate to find a fair balance here.
I think the Commission should give us this.
As a result of the expansion this European Union could become a community of peace for the whole of Europe.
It could achieve stability and balance, and thus have economic and socio-ecological value for all of us in the long term.
What we have to learn together is that we can only achieve the future together, and that common value for each of us is better than that we insist on individual apparent values.
We should establish a federation of institutions in order to achieve these tasks!
(Applause)
