Mr President, this is an own-initiative report of the Committee on Fisheries on the fisheries policy after the year 2000.
The so-called blue Europe was created in 1983 for a period of twenty years and it therefore expires in 2002.
The idea of this report was to present some suggestions as an initial basis for discussion on reformulating a fisheries policy.
In fact we have to conclude that so far no one has really given much thought to a future fisheries policy.
That is why this report is particularly important.
It is not of course the last word of the European Parliament on this subject.
The central problem of the fisheries policy is the catastrophic stocks situation along with the fact that the fishing fleet is too large.
Almost all the points in the own-initiative report are concerned with this fact.
So what does the report suggest?
As regards the problem of excess fleet capacity, it demands that fleet strength is adjusted to existing stocks with a view to creating a more balanced situation.
The social aspects of this must of course be taken into consideration at the same time.
Secondly, in order to maintain stocks, it asks for a system that must be simple and efficient.
The annual total catch must be agreed on the basis of biological, economic and social factors, and fishermen themselves must be more involved in these considerations.
In allocating the total catch weights, the principle of relative stability must continue to apply.
That is exceptionally important.
Thirdly, restructuring of the fisheries policy must continue to be supported to ensure a socially acceptable solution.
Fourthly, a control policy is an indispensable part of the fisheries policy if we are going to have a useful stocks policy.
So we considered it enormously important that the report was clear on this and that minimum standards in Member States, an increase in control resources and the extension of existing controls on the production of third countries had to be demanded.
Fifthly, as regards the policy on external resources, the report draws attention to the principles already agreed by the European Parliament.
I would, however, have liked to see a clearer statement in the report that the European Commission will continue to be solely responsible for negotiating agreements with non-EU countries.
In my opinion it is absolutely essential that the European Union acts in unison in its foreign and foreign trade policy.
We realize that this report represents a compromise, but one which we as a section within the European People's Party are happy to accept.
We would like to express warm thanks to the rapporteur Carmen Fraga Estévez, who has tackled a very difficult job extremely well!
