Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking this oral question as the basis to discuss the progress made on cooperation in the areas of justice and home affairs during this past six months.
We can now report to our total satisfaction that the Luxembourg Presidency has made progress.
This applies not only to the formal cooperation with Parliament but to the subject matter also.
Mr President-in-Office, we are pleased to point out that you made it a general rule, virtually anticipating the rules of the Amsterdam Treaty, to listen to Parliament on action in the area of the third pillar.
That is a good procedure.
You are not obliged to do so by treaty or for any other reason.
I think we have achieved some positive results from working together.
We want to make a point of stressing and applauding that.
Our request would be that you impart your convictions to your successor, of whom we now have similar expectations.
No doubt there are still demands in this area.
It would be better, for instance, if we conducted this debate on the basis of a report from the Council.
Maybe this could be passed on as a suggestion also.
Each time we study the catalogue describing such work, we find a wealth of topics where you never know exactly by the end of the half-year which direction they have progressed in or why they might not have progressed at all.
This would be a fine opportunity for any Council presidency to describe its projects and their realization, while at the same time disclosing the obstacles that stood in the way of them.
Work in this area has become very complex.
It covers issues such as the fight against trafficking in human beings, the fight against organized crime, protection of the Community's financial interests, the treatment of non-Community minors not in the company of adults, risk assessment and control of synthetic drugs, the fight against corruption, passport control at the external borders, and an issue extremely important in practice, namely agreement on the issuing of judicial and extra-judicial documents in civil and commercial matters.
Behind this very legal-sounding formulation hides a central problem of intergovernmental cooperation under the third pillar, that is cooperation in the fields of justice and home affairs.
The great task facing us here is the construction of a European judicial network, that is to say an area of European jurisdiction.
We have become accustomed to trade operating without borders where economic activity is concerned, under the single market, but the legal instruments protecting trade stop at the national frontiers.
That is bad for Europe's citizens and bad for the consumers.
Moreover, it is hard to understand why a ruling of the Local Court in Kassel cannot be issued directly to a French citizen by this court, with the result that the judgement is able to be executed immediately.
We need this, and it is feasible within this framework.
This will be the task in the coming period, even if you bear in mind that work in this field is likely to change permanently with the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty.
While initially the same procedural rules will apply, the Council will decide unanimously and Parliament will be consulted.
Yet, following ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, there will be a common legal base in the areas of asylum, immigration and police collaboration, and the process of inter-state cooperation we are experimenting with now will not apply any longer.
There will be questions to deal with here as well, Mr President-in-Office.
I will just mention one.
Currently the national parliaments act in controlling their governments.
Once there is a common authority, the relevant areas like asylum and immigration will pass from national control without arriving under the full control of this Parliament, since we will only be consulted and not enjoy codecision.
This is going to give some constitutional experts a real headache.
That is why we are advising in no uncertain terms, Mr President-in-Office, that the earliest possible use be made of the opportunities for introducing majority voting and codecision to this Parliament.
There are many individual aspects that we would like to see encouraged.
We need to prepare for the incorporation of Schengen.
We need to legislate for a common right of asylum.
And we want to continue to develop Europol into an effective unit, regardless of particular differences, which is subordinate to the control of a European Commissioner, the legal control of the Court of Justice and the parliamentary control of this Parliament.
At the same time we would prevail upon you to assist us, Mr President-in-Office, in view of our excellent understanding with you hitherto!
(Applause)
