Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to restrict my intervention to Laos, and would first like to thank Mr Castagnède for his report and for his contribution to the debate just now.
As far as development goes, we are primarily concerned with the ACP States.
But here we are dealing with Laos, one of the poorest countries in the world, which, however, has no access to the resources of the European development fund.
In that respect this agreement brings expectations of partnership and cooperation.
Poverty in a country like Laos does not just mean a shortage of food, but also inadequate health care, education and general prospects in life.
The per capita income of this country is 290 dollars a year, and when you allow for the development aid which we have given so far, in the final count 15 % of this income is actually in the form of financial support or contributions from the European Union.
If we are to work towards cooperation in the framework of this agreement, then we certainly need to be clear that we are looking at trade and cooperation spanning half the globe.
On the other hand, the entry of this country into ASEAN means that there is a market on its doorstep covering 400 million consumers.
I also have a few more questions for the Commission, much as I am pleased with this treaty.
The first question is this: what are the real prospects now for the democratisation of a single party government, given that some 75 % of the leading figures in this country are high-ranking and other military officers?
The second question is this: will the market prospects for this country improve significantly inside the community of Asian countries, resulting in what we always particularly strive towards in development, that is, a regional market involving deliveries over relatively short distances?
The third question is about anti-personnel mines.
The treaty says that the Commission will examine this problem.
I would like to know what 'examining this problem' means.
The fact is that up to now we have not managed to clear more mines each year than are laid.
There is an enormous discrepancy here, and would be very pleased if this issue could be treated as a priority, rather than just taking small steps here and there.
The last question that I would like to ask is this: what about the strength of the currency?
Are efforts being made and plans drawn up to gradually give the country a stable and less vulnerable currency, a convertible currency?
With an inflation rate of 20 %, even growth rates of 7 % look somewhat modest.
