Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, women are not being asked, but they are the answer.
Non-governmental organizations and executive bodies have known this for a long time and act accordingly, when they are allowed to.
An effective development policy cannot be implemented without the participation of women.
They are the driving force not only for their families, but also for any future development in this area.
One must in principle welcome the fact that the Commission has recognized this in its regulation and has drawn up a certain code of behaviour for practical policy implementation.
At this late - or indeed early hour, I would like to express my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Junker, whose appraisal of the present regulation has clearly set out the objectives and requirements of development cooperation from a woman's viewpoint.
Our group approves the report.
Naturally, we hope that as many as possible of its noble objectives will become a reality.
This will depend on the political will generated at all levels and also on cooperation from reliable partners in Europe and in the recipient countries.
It is the women of the world, particularly in the poorest countries, who bear the burden of life and who have to endure the stresses and strains of their circumstances.
Giving them aid in the form of self-help implies more than simply assisting individual women and their families.
The promotion and participation of women in the economic, political and social process means giving the developing countries a chance for the future.
We must therefore give all due attention to this report and this Council Regulation and wish them every success.
Allow me finally to say something about the general scope of this debate.
In fact it is not really a debate at all, but rather something undeserving of the few speakers and reporters who have to be present, and I wish at this point to express particular thanks to the interpreters and other ministering angels who have endured with us to the bitter end.
No-one is listening to us here, apart from the minute-takers and the tape-recorders.
It is unworthy, especially since the important subject under discussion is one which requires our full attention if we are to find a solution, or even to begin the search for one.
I propose that we put an end to debates of this nature.
After 10 p.m. we could, for example, state that we are giving the written text of our speeches to the secretariat.
Who is listening to us anyway?
Certainly not the world, certainly not Europe, not even our fellow MEPs.
There is no-one here but ourselves.
We all know what our opinions are.
Such debates do no justice to us, let alone to the subject matter.
