Mr President, Mr Fischler, like my colleagues I have been listening to you attentively, and you will not be surprised to hear that what you have said certainly does not make us all perfectly happy.
But as I have often said elsewhere, being MEPs does not give us an automatic right to happiness.
Allow me to make a few comments.
In the last few days, I have again and again defended the view that the decision to postpone the implementation of the regulations on specified risk materials does not spell imminent disaster.
Admittedly, I would have liked us to have at last had a safe, protected system by 1 January.
Now let me consider four points which are important in this context and also create tension between the two scientific bodies with which we are concerned, namely the Scientific Steering Committee and the Standing Veterinary Committee.
Before getting into detail, I want to ask you, Mr Fischler, and perhaps you too, Mrs Bonino, whether you believe competition between these bodies is now, at last, at an end, and that the Scientific Steering Committee and the Standing Veterinary Committee are both giving equal priority to health policy and preventive consumer protection?
Or do you believe, Mr Fischler, that it is still the case - and I know this is an assumption - that the Standing Veterinary Committee, at least, represents the individual interests of the Member States from which the representatives come, and not necessarily the position of the whole European Union?
Now let me say something about the individual points.
The position is that the proposal on specified risk material has been postponed by three months, from 1 January to 1 April.
We have three or four areas to consider.
If we leave out the USA, there are three main areas.
Do you think we will have succeeded in clarifying all these questions in the remaining time?
I think even the scientists - who all happen to be men - will use the Christmas holiday period to celebrate Christmas.
What will happen about cosmetics and pharmaceuticals?
Are you sure that we will succeed in regulating this area, both within the European Union and relations with the USA, and also in regulating what happens to pharmaceuticals which have already been produced?
How will you evaluate the new specification of specified risk materials, even in the Standing Veterinary Committee?
Will you include the spine?
Will you include the lungs, ganglia and so on?
How will you ensure geographic distinction, and will you encourage the Standing Veterinary Committee to cooperate with the Scientific Steering Committee?
One last point in my first speaking time - because luckily I have another speaking time at the end - the USA.
Mr Fischler, it is ridiculous for the USA to say the control facilities in the Union would be insufficient.
Are you prepared to go before the WTO arbitration tribunal and tell the USA that what they are doing with hormones and pesticides is a scandal?
If they think that they are clean as regards BSE, we want that shown before the WTO arbitration tribunal!
Are you prepared to do this for the European Union?
