Mr President, I want to try to get the interrupted debate on the Scapagnini report going again.
Energy policy requires a global attitude and global political action.
Even the title of the Commission's statement suggests that.
The climate summit in Kyoto made the need for this global attitude clear, at least as far as the effect of energy policy on climate is concerned.
But it also revealed how far apart understanding and implementation are.
There is hardly a policy area where the gulf between what should be and what is, between a normative requirement on the one hand and actual policies on the other, is as wide as in energy and climate policy.
The Commission's statement needs to be evaluated against this background.
It presents us with the known arguments for the need for a global attitude and strategy in the energy field.
There is the continually increasing dependence of the European Union on energy imports, and the resulting future risks.
There is the rapid growth of world energy consumption and the associated shortage of supply, and not least there is the considerable increase in worldwide environmental problems and their long term effect.
All this suggests that the European Union should have increased authority in energy policy, but we have not secured it, even in the Amsterdam Treaty.
There is no clear, specific legal basis in the treaty.
What is left, if you will excuse the comparison, is like the chatter of house-sparrows about the autumn migration to the south.
The Commission's statement is an accurate but visionless compendium of all Community initiatives in the energy field.
What remains to be done in this context?
What remains is to improve international cooperation on energy.
What remains is to assess the energy and environment policies of the Member States regularly - that is new - and to try to coordinate them towards Community goals.
We need synergy effects, not mutual blockades or zero-sum games.
The implementation of the internal energy market guidelines for liberalization and integration of energy markets must be driven forward.
What remains is to continue to work on the Community energy tax, which has failed up to now, and to encourage research, technological development and demonstration of renewable energy resources.
I am anxious to know what is finally left of what we put into the fifth research programme.
In short, what remains is to keep to the idea of an outline energy policy programme, and to strengthen energy policy actions through cooperation between the Member States.
This requires periodic reports about national activities and their effects.
The rapporteur, Mr Scapagnini, sees this stimulation of the Commission, and assesses it as suitable.
What I would like to see in future - I only want to mention it briefly - would be specific implementation strategies...
(The President cut off the speaker)
