Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can only agree with the rapporteur.
In the application of new technologies it is not the technology that should be centre stage but always the people.
Their individual rights and needs have priority and must be protected at all times.
As obvious as this observation sounds, it is often difficult to put it into practice.
The history of the Directive concerning the protection of personal data and privacy in the context of telecommunications has shown this once more.
It was a long and rocky road which only had a happy ending in the conciliation procedure.
The Directive supplements the general data protection directive as regards the protection of privacy in view of the technical facilities available to the latest telecommunications networks.
It gives data protection in the context of telecommunications a similar importance to the protection of health for which the European Parliament has set particularly tough standards in many areas of our lives.
This high standard is an absolute necessity to protect personal data and safeguard people's private lives against third parties.
On the other hand, there is a danger that we are sacrificing people's individuality on the altar of the opportunities offered by a technology which is absolutely necessary and welcome and delivering them up without protection to the financial greed of those who run the telecommunications industry.
In other words, we have to arrive at an individual protection scheme which leaves the decision to each person as to how much access to him or her modern telecommunications should have.
Let me quote you the example of direct selling by fax or telephone.
Who has not been annoyed by an unsolicited call from an insurance sales person at an inconvenient moment?
This will be a thing of the past when the directive comes into force as this and similar applications of telecommunications technology will require the consent of the person affected.
I support the result of the conciliation procedure because while maintaining a high level of protection it has managed not to lose sight of the second main goal: the free transfer of data must be guaranteed.
Let me conclude by pointing out a particularly strange example of the way the unrestricted exchange of data had been put at risk.
Faced with data networks that span the globe, someone actually had the idea that, under the heading of subsidiarity in the European Union, telecommunications should be regulated differently in each country.
They must have got communications and commerce mixed up.
We have succeeded in preventing this, and a good thing too!
