Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Zimmermann has very profoundly explained the position o f Parliament on this common measure, so that I have no need to detail the views of the European Parliament on the Odysseus programme.
I shall concentrate, therefore, on looking at the question of asylum, immigration and security of external borders from a different point of view.
The European Union is a citizens' rights union.
That is how we always describe it in the insider circle which meets here tonight.
And so it should be.
The European Union should also, therefore, guarantee the right to asylum, unified at the highest possible level for validity in all Member States.
That means, though, that asylum law in the European Union has to be unified, i.e., it has to be communized.
The Amsterdam treaty provided for this over a five year period.
A unanimous Council decision blocked this, however, in the form of the so-called permanent national reservation, Mr President of the Council, but nevertheless, one is on the way to communizing the laws on asylum.
The same applies to immigration policy.
You may ask what asylum and immigration have to do with one another.
If civil rights are to be guaranteed, and if victims of political persecution are to be guaranteed asylum, so that applications for asylum can be made in the European Union, then the European Union must declare what differentiates the politically persecuted applying for asylum from the immigrant who is not politically persecuted and must not be given the opportunity, or forced, to use asylum as a key to gaining entrance.
If we want to avoid undermining asylum rights because of a lack of acceptance, with citizens of the European Union thinking that asylum seekers actually do not want asylum, but just the chance to immigrate, then we must have an immigration law to protect asylum law, and it should if possible not be split down into fifteen parts, but unified.
Finally, if this is to function within the European Union, we need qualified security of the European Union's external borders, whose internal borders have already disappeared.
I have had an opportunity of observing the Italian External Border Security Service, which is very keen and highly qualified.
I looked at the Border Security element of the Italian Coastguard in the Bay of Naples.
They are all excellent officers and I asked them what they saw as their status there.
They stared at me, not having understood my question.
I then asked if they were Italian or European officials - of course they are Italian: green, white and red.
Their reply was that they had nothing to do with Europe.
But that is not true.
Since Italy became a full Schengen Member, and the borders between Austria, Italy, and Germany were thrown open, we have been aware that well organized gangs of human smugglers - this happened only yesterday - land ships on the Italian coast - yesterday it seems to have been with 800 Kurds on board whose objective was not Italy, but other European Union states.
What is the significance of this for the other countries in the European Union?
It means that the Italian external border has become the German border, that it is also the Swedish border, and the French border, or that the border between Finland and Russia is now Italy's border, because anyone entering the European Union has freedom of movement, once he has been accepted by any Member State.
We have a varying structure for external border defence in each of the States, however.
In the long term that cannot function.
We need unification of the external border defences.
Mrs Zimmermann made mention of this in her report.
The Odysseus programme for the training of individual national state officials is one important point, because the individual official, such as a Fin, must understand the significance of his job to his Italian colleague, and vice versa.
In the final event, however, it will be of no avail if we do not take communizing steps in those areas where the European Union does not need increasing cooperation between states, but its own European laws.
It is at this point that essential national interests are touched on.
This is why Mrs Zimmermann's point, about harmonization being unavoidable as a sort of follow-up to training, is one of the central messages that Parliament must communicate in this declaration.
