Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz, for presenting such a very good report.
But we should express our appreciation to the Commission too for this suggestion of an ongoing programme of support for sustainable energy sources in the Community.
I agree unreservedly with the statement in the Commission proposal that the current combination of energy supplies is not consistent with the long term requirements of sustained development.
For environmental and climatic considerations, in view of our increasing dependence on energy imports and because it is so important for employment and industrial reasons, we are bound politically to try and ensure the increased use of renewable energies.
When we look at the low rates of growth in the last few years it is clear too that considerable efforts will be necessary to achieve the very modest goal set in the Green Paper on renewable energy of a doubling of these sources.
Apart from standard economic measures which - at least we hope, Commissioner Papoutsis - you will be presenting shortly as part of the White Paper, in its response to the Green Paper the European Parliament has demanded a more ambitious and financially stronger Altener II programme.
The proposed financial appropriation of ECU 30 million for 1998 and 1999 certainly does not meet the demands which will be made on the Union.
We must therefore agree wholeheartedly with the Commission that the budgets for the remaining three budget years must be considerably boosted, in particular with regard to the welcome proposal that the Altener II programme must put greater emphasis on support for the market penetration of renewable energy sources.
In the report on the Green Paper, the European Parliament demanded a major Community programme for sustainable energies with a million photovoltaic systems on roofs and facades, 15, 000 megawatt wind farms and 1, 000 megawatt biomass plants.
When we look at what the USA and Japan are doing, then these are fairly modest demands.
I trust, Commissioner Papoutsis, that you will shortly be giving us a White Paper which reflects this, so that the first specific steps can be taken in the - as we have said - financially inadequate Altener II programme, which must then be put on a sounder financial footing later.
Just two further brief remarks.
The amendments of the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy ask for the programme to be extended to the southern Mediterranean nations and countries with cooperative arrangements with the EU.
My group approves without qualification the support of sustainable energy sources in these countries, but the Altener budget will not cover it.
Meda, Tacis and Phare could perhaps be used instead.
Finally, I cannot speak here for my whole group, I know some think otherwise, but to regard and support domestic waste, apart from biomass, as a renewable energy source is really pie in the sky!
