Mr President, Mr Graziani's report is excellent, and I am grateful to him for conveying such a positive spirit in it, as I believe that we depend on having good transatlantic relations not only with Canada, but also with the United States.
It provides an important foundation for western values, for which I am very grateful to him.
By the way, I am also delighted that he is in good health and back with us again.
The joint action plan of 17 December 1996 consolidates the 1976 framework agreement and thus opens up a new form of cooperation between the European Union and Canada.
I am pleased that this agreement is before us, and I am glad that we have also found new types of cooperation as a basis for this.
I will return to that point in a moment.
The main focus of the agreement is the area of bilateral trade and investment relations, but also closer cooperation in multilateral trade matters, and closer and more stable political cooperation.
This is a wide-ranging package, and the Commission has put in very solid work.
So what is this new type and new style of cooperation?
I would like to mention just a few areas.
The first point is that there is a direct form of cooperation, which involves the Commission working with its Canadian administrative counterparts.
There is a much more direct form of political cooperation, that is, in future there will simply be direct means of cooperation for each case and for each topic to be dealt with.
The second point is that it will be possible to resolve trade disputes directly, avoiding the complicated conventions which used to apply.
We should not underestimate the value of this.
We know that trade disputes make life difficult for us, and so this is important.
We have totally new types of agreement before us, and I am glad the Commission has done this.
Nevertheless, you are quite right, Mr President, in saying that the Parliament needs to be involved in this more closely.
I would ask the Commission to keep us informed of what they are doing at all times.
