Mr President, the cause of the scandal and the millions of cases of suffering and maltreatment of animals - unnecessary suffering and unnecessary maltreatment - is that animals are still regarded as goods to be dealt with as one wishes, so that as much profit as possible is wrung out of them.
And when there is no further use for them, they can be thrown away.
So it is, for example, with horses, one of mankind's oldest companions, and that is a particularly strong example as often man would not have advanced without horses.
As long as we do not realise that animals are not goods, maintained just for our profit, nothing will change here.
Allow me to read out something written by St Francis of Assisi in the 12th Century.
It shows how little we have learned, even though we maintain that we are such a cultured nation: "All the creatures of the Earth feel as we do.
All the creatures of the Earth strive for happiness as we do.
All the creatures of the Earth love, suffer, and die as we do.
Therefore they are equal works of the Almighty Creator' .
We should take that to heart.
We are just as much a part of creation as animals, yet we maltreat them and exploit them.
Think about what happens in horse transporters over thousands of kilometres.
Horses are timid flight animals.
They are torn from their home stables, put into strange stalls, loaded onto transporters without food or water.
They are close- tethered, they cannot lie down, they cannot make themselves comfortable, they can do nothing, and they trample each other to death.
And we still allow this to happen today!
That takes place every day.
It is exactly the same with pig transport, cattle transport, etcetera.
We make great speeches, we pass many papers and resolutions, yet no one takes any notice of what happens as a result of it all.
That has got to change!
If we want to be able to face ourselves in the mirror, or - as many, including myself, still do - got to church and pray, then we do not have the right to treat creatures, who are similar products of creation, in the way we do today.
That has finally got to stop and I can only hope that the Commission stands firm at last, and that more serious controls take place within Member States.
