Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
Freedom of settlement has long been enshrined by European treaty.
There are certain occupational groups, however, which have until now been excluded from this right due to specific de facto circumstances.
European lawyers constitute one such group.
The reason for this must surely lie in the fact that legal training differs considerably from one Member State to the next and that differences have always existed between our various national laws and legal arrangements.
However, and this is a matter which I am keen to raise here, academic studies undertaken in the area of commercial law have indicated that almost 60 % of the laws which are in force in the various Member States have their origins in European legislation.
In this respect the harmonization of legislation within the internal market is now so well advanced that the fundamental differences which many legal experts say still exist are in reality no longer there.
In some cases it is simply the paragraph numbers and legislative machinery which differ, while considerable convergence has already been achieved in respect of the content of European regulations.
On this basis it makes absolute sense to apply the principle of freedom of settlement to European lawyers and ultimately to introduce this basic European right for the benefit of this particular professional group.
At this point may I congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Fontaine, on the successful outcome of her efforts.
It is mainly down to her that compromise has been achieved.
This matter has been the subject of great contention between the different national interests.
I still recall the arguments which took place in my homeland where early on the relevant technical committees in the German Bundestag refused point blank to approve the directive.
The compromise solution which has now been adopted is so well thought out that with one exception, namely the small country of Luxembourg, all Member States have agreed to it.
The professional groups concerned, which are represented by the CCBE - the European lawyers' association -, are satisfied with this arrangement and support it unreservedly.
For me this is an excellent example of how Parliament, through its own initiative, has been able to take steps to achieve a compromise and to actually get the Council to accept its proposals.
I believe that we can regard this as a major success for this House vis-à-vis the Council and its role as a legislator.
It is an achievement which should not be underestimated.
The new agreement will make it possible for those of my profession - for I too am a lawyer - to make full use of their rights and opportunities within the European internal market, under certain conditions of course.
But it will also benefit other professions and sectors in which legislative assimilation has become necessary.
I therefore leave this House tonight feeling extremely satisfied because I believe that we have achieved real progress towards European integration and the creation of the internal market - albeit only in a small sector.
