Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is more than a common internal market.
It is more than a common currency, which will soon be introduced, it is a Community because of its constitution and because of its composition and it is cohesion which sustains it.
For the benefit of those who do not meet it every day, it is worth explaining exactly what is meant by the term cohesion.
Cohesion is a characteristic trait, that means, we look at one another and together try to get this European Union going, the stronger working with the weaker and the weaker with the stronger.
For this purpose we have at our disposal a great European instrument, and that is the structural fund.
I will talk about this later.
Returning to the subject, however, it has to be said that individual national policies also form part of the European policy of cohesion.
Mr Izquierdo Collado and the cohesion report itself drew attention to this fact and we should be thankful for it.
Policies should not undercut or counteract each other.
Here the first step is to ensure that National States do not introduce policies which block what is being done at European level - otherwise the policies we apply here become completely nonsensical.
This also means, however, that we must coordinate our policies, while at the same time guarding against a policy in which everything is submitted to absolute diktat, since this would render us incapable of focusing on individual objectives.
Research is one such area.
Here quality is the most important factor and this must be upheld.
I am truly grateful to Mr Izquierdo Collado, and this contrasts with the remarks made by Mr Berend, that he has dealt with the subject on a much wider basis.
It is a matter which also includes the structural fund.
In our discussion we had to ensure that we were not tying ourselves to the present.
The debate on the structural fund will take place next year.
There is no doubt whatsoever that guidelines are required for this debate and it without doubt also right to draw lessons from the cohesion report.
In the committee and in the following discussions we encountered difficulties when agreeing the cohesion fund for the coming years.
This is to be my final remark on the subject.
We did not want to make any commitments as far as subsequent debates on the structural fund are concerned.
We do not wish to introduce a fund which at the end of the day only results in a transfer of revenue.
For this reason we have made it clear that the compromise which has been found is for us, in its wording, both binding and reasonable.
In this respect I want to thank Mr Izquierdo Collado, who has devoted an enormous amount of time and effort to the project.
He has done great service to the subject matter, namely economic and social cohesion, and I would like to congratulate him on his report.
