Madam President, Mr Kittelmann, imagine that you are a car manufacturer and are endeavouring to obtain approval for a new model of car.
Let us also assume that in your view it is a very economical model even though it does not quite pass the elk test in some safety aspects.
The EC's accession to the ECE Agreement would be like manna from heaven for you!
The Committee on Industrial Policy is of the opinion that accession by the EU would substantially reduce the scope of the codecision procedure in such sensitive areas as safety and environmental legislation and that the EU would be allowing its legislative powers to be exercised by an organization whose standards are less stringent.
The rapporteur for the Committee on Legal Affairs said that the Treaty of Rome provided for the highest possible level of environmental and consumer protection, whereas such standards were lacking from the ECE Agreement.
It is a bad joke to believe the EP could prevent a sub-standard car, which is on the home straight having gone through the whole process, from being approved by withholding its assent, in other words a mere yes or no, as it lacks the necessary leverage to maintain a meaningful position, in other words codecision powers.
In order to take account of the reservations expressed by the committees that were asked for an opinion, the Commission has undertaken to provide the EP with advance information in confidence.
I have to admit, that is a nice gesture.
But why should an emergency happen in any case, particularly with regard to safety and the environment?
The EC's accession obeys the logic of finding faster and better ways of penetrating world markets and forcing other countries to accede to the ECE Agreement.
So why should we make the entrance fee more expensive?
And I suggest that we do not go rushing in first and then hope things get better.
Instead we should be calling upon the responsible authorities to reform the ECE procedure first to benefit the environment, society and safety and then we could talk about acceding to the ECE vehicle type-approval system.
In that case we would certainly drop our objections, quite definitely.
I just hope we do not get an elephant test sometime!
