Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are today discussing the situation in Burundi, and some of you, even those on the platform, may be intrigued to know why the European Parliament is debating this issue at all.
As has already been said, as with so many conflicts in Africa, we are very directly involved.
As is the case with many conflicts, our involvement is not a positive one, but rather concerns the fact that our weapons are being used in that country for killing people.
This means that in Europe profits and even jobs, let us be honest, are linked with the death of innocent people in Africa.
I am pleased to see that there is broad agreement within this House for taking active steps to resolve the situation in Burundi and indeed in other crisis regions.
The world will never be a paradise and there will always be weapons.
But surely it is high time for us to stop supplying weapons to obvious crisis regions, to put an end to our support for such conflicts, to stop supplying the killing fields of the world.
So my party is unequivocal is supporting this motion, namely an arms embargo, which must also involve on-the-spot checks to ensure that weapons are not reaching Burundi by more obscure routes.
For this reason we naturally give our full and unreserved support to the restoration of peace through the medium of a peace conference.
As well as restoring peace to the region, we must establish the conditions which will allow people who have lived together peaceably for decades to resume this way of live, instead of going for each other's throats.
In all these matters it is imperative for Europe to act as the main peace broker, and not as a world power supplying weapons to ensure that conflicts are resolved militarily, through force of arms.
Here I would ask that the initiative taken by the UK government, which is soon to take up the EU, be carried through to its positive conclusion, namely the so-called "code of conduct' , which ensures that rules are established for arms exports, that these rules be made more transparent, and that they should more readily correspond with the concept of human rights which we have in Europe.
With the permission of this House I should like to close by informing Parliament that a member of our party, who has prepared urgency debates through numerous discussions with other groups and who is very well known to the Parliamentary staff, namely Nadia van Hamme, is leaving us for Africa, although not Burundi, to carry out active peace work on that continent.
In my official capacity I should like to express my thanks to her for the excellent work which she has undertaken in cooperation with other members of this House.
