Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media we repeatedly stress the importance of mobility, not just for European integration, but in particular in preparing our young people at an early age for the demands of working life.
Globalization is going full steam ahead.
It is becoming increasingly important to learn languages, to become familiar with other cultures and to adapt oneself flexibly to the customs of other lands.
For these reasons I have very much welcomed the Commission's initiative for the establishment of a European network for quality assurance in higher education.
But I do think the title of the proposal was an unfortunate choice.
The main thrust here is an opportunity to encourage mobility, rather than ensure quality assurance in higher education.
Of course it is also important to demand a certain quality level within all European Member States.
This should be a minimum requirement which must be met, and which guarantees that quality in our places of higher education does not decrease, but improves wherever possible.
It is only in this way that our universities can continue to withstand the pressure of international competition.
Member States point out quite correctly, however, that the detail of education does not fall within the competence of the European Union.
In my report, therefore, I have tried in the first part of the proposal - which challenges Member States to develop a system of evaluation - to emphasize quite clearly the independence of the universities.
The Commission's proposal is primarily aimed, however, at giving students and teaching staff information about courses on offer, course aims, and diplomas available at universities in various Member States.
This is intended to facilitate the search by higher education centres for partner universities, and the individual selection by students of courses abroad.
This is most welcome, because I personally learn over and over again from students how often enthusiasm and interest in neighbouring countries is stifled by inadequate information.
The Commission's proposal provides that it alone will undertake the construction of the European network.
I do not believe this is sensible and I understand why the Member States are opposing it.
The establishment of this sort of network can only take place on a basis of mutual trust and with cooperation.
It is hard to envisage a European network without national frameworks and the creation of national networks.
On those grounds the Committee on Culture supports my amendment for these demands to be addressed both to the Commission and to Member States.
The funding of the network remains a sensitive point.
The proposal foresees financing by the Socrates and Leonardo programmes, but without the joint approval of Parliament.
It has been said, however, that networks can be set up within the existing proposals for electronic networks in Socrates and Leonardo, and for that reason I welcome the proposal.
The proposal also deals with the first recommendation on education under article 126.
I support this for its own sake.
In order slightly to reduce the obligations in the proposal, however, I have replaced some of the executive measures with less compulsory terms.
I am pleased that the Committee on Culture has accepted these.
Also accepted was my proposal for a definition of the term "place of higher education' .
Let me just touch on a few points in my report which seem to me to be particularly important.
I have suggested that the central and eastern European countries should become involved at once in the evaluation process and the creation of the network.
Obviously their specific problems and situations must be adequately taken into consideration.
It also seems to me to be important for research and training to be evaluated, as I am convinced that they are essential to our future knowledge.
Furthermore, I think we must work out a comprehensive and generally agreed definition of quality within the overall drive for quality assurance, so that all higher education centres can identify with it and so that it can be used for the evaluation of student courses.
Without such general agreement it will be exceptionally difficult to carry out evaluation which is applicable throughout Europe.
Unfortunately, this proposal was rejected by the Committee on Culture, but as it seems to me to be really important, I shall reintroduce it on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, and hope for the Commission's support.
There is great deal to be said for this network, ladies and gentlemen, for transparency in the quality of places of higher education, and for mutually confident cooperation in this field between the Member States.
For this reason I hope that the Commission will accept our amendments and, with the support of Parliament, remove the obstacles to student mobility that still, unfortunately, exist.
