Mr President, this evening we are discussing additives.
Previously, additives were called foreign ingredients.
That word clarifies what this is about, namely foreign ingredients in food.
The Commission's proposal is aimed at changing the 1995 guideline concerning other food additives such as colourings and sweeteners, whereby the 35 proposed amendments almost exclusively cover the corresponding Annexes.
We in the Committee on the Environment Questions, Public Health and Consumer Protection assume that a unification of licensing for the use of food additives in the European Union is to be welcomed.
Without a unified regulation of additives the principle of mutual acceptance would lead to insecurity amongst consumers and large problems in food inspection and food labelling.
A unified authorization and use of additives should be accompanied at the same time as far as possible by a search for reductions in the number of different additives and their areas of use.
The Committee on the Environment has again made clear that our concern must be to meet the demands of European consumers and their associations.
Their concern is mainly that the food industry should as far as possible voluntarily avoid the use of additives.
Consumers and also the food industry have shown over recent years that the use of additives can be greatly reduced.
We now have the situation where there are products on the market both with and without additives.
The outline guideline of 1989 provided criteria for the authorization of additives.
First, there must be a technological necessity for them; they must not damage health; they must not mislead the consumer; and they must of course show advantages.
There has been criticism of the Commission's proposal, however, as it has not taken the trouble to make the technical necessity clear, nor to explain where the advantages to the consumer lie.
It is urged, therefore, that in future there should be an examination of technical necessity before the authorisation of additives, and that there should be a further check some years later to see that the technical necessity actually still exists.
It is desirable that the Commission should at last to lay down objective criteria to develop these central licensing factors to achieve a better assessment of additives.
The Committee on the Environment has proposed several amendments.
The Commission wanted cream, low-fat cream, non-fat cream and sterilized cream, which have 38 additives, to be allowed to have more.
The Committee expressed its opposition to this, as it can be assumed that the consumer wants relatively unprocessed food, and this applies particularly to cream.
The consumer should also be informed where there is a potential hazard to certain groups of the population.
It has been shown that particularly the food additives possess an increasing allergenic capability, and that it is precisely these allergies which have increased in frequency of occurrence.
The Committee recommends, therefore, that the use of sulphur dioxide and/or sulphates and sulfides on dried fruit is of no great technical importance, and that here there should be a printed warning to asthmatics, so that this particularly endangered group should in future have the possibility of informing itself on the dangers.
Figures are available from the USA to show that in these areas there have already been instances of death and poor tolerance.
The Commission also wants it to be possible to make the foam head on cider longer lasting by licensing the use of E405 combined with E999.
The Committee opposed this general permission for cider, because a lasting head of foam would suggest freshness, which was not the case.
Thus the Commission's proposal would be misleading to the consumer.
The Committee also rejected the proposal for a coating on rice, a microcrystalline wax, as that also would mislead about rice, a staple foodstuff: rice possesses a natural appearance and does not shine.
Here again the Committee was of the opinion that a technical necessity did not exist.
Particularly where baby foods were concerned we came to the conclusion that, as this is a very sensitive area, it is particularly necessary to apply caution.
We reduced the suggested proportion of starch in baby foods from 50g per kg to 5g per kg.
Industry interests play a part here as well, and we hope that Parliament will agree the amendment wishes of the Committee, as this is a matter of consumer protection.
Consumers together with the industry have, over the past few years, shown that it is important to reduce additives as much as possible and to make certain that products are left in their natural states.
