Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to contribute a few fundamental comments to this debate on competition, on behalf of the European People's Party.
More than ever, locations in all countries are facing global competition, and the world is becoming one market place.
I believe we should see this as an opportunity to grasp.
Companies are being wrested from the grip of nation states, and I think this is having a salutary effect on policy.
The wonderful thing about the mobility of capital is that it stirs up everyone whose mind is closed to the idea of reform, and especially to structural change.
However, the way goods flow demonstrates which countries have cost advantages in the production of goods and factor flows indicate where the most efficient locations are.
This means that competition for the location of investment projects is a key aspect of market economy policy as we understand it.
Other components are the safeguarding of dynamic competition and the dismantling of anti-competition regulations.
If competition for the location of investment between EU Member States means that dynamic competition is safeguarded, then I would say that we should say no to excessive tax harmonization in Europe.
We in this Parliament are also very often responsible for encouraging regulation by the state.
But in the final analysis, overregulation provides protection against competition, reduces the pressure to innovate, curbs growth, and hinders access to the market by newcomers and the creation of new jobs.
Instead of supposedly protecting responsible citizens from the risks of competition, I believe the EU - and its Member States of course - should give our citizens the scope to take responsibility for their own actions in competitive markets.
That is the real reason for having a sensible deregulation policy which would also be the best policy for creating more jobs, and I believe we are still a very long way from achieving that.
We should be demanding deregulation and liberalization instead of protection against competition.
A general prerequisite for economic renewal in Europe should be to put all subsidies, including agricultural ones, under the microscope.
The economic inefficiencies of subsidies are blindingly obvious.
First of all, they distort competitive pricing mechanisms.
Secondly, they result in the misdirection of capital.
And thirdly, as a rule they reinforce existing structures and handicap non-subsidized businesses and concerns, because they push up taxes.
In short, they undermine the market economy in Europe.
Reducing subsidies in Europe would lead to more rapid structural change, thus creating more jobs than any employment summit.
In my view, the combination of employment policy and state-financed programmes amounts to throwing good money after bad.
That is why I would say that competition policy needs to be seen as part of a comprehensive policy that combines the efficiencies of the market economy with social equilibrium in a harmonious reciprocal relationship.
Mr van Miert, I think we would agree that rather than worry about anti-trust laws and the regulation of mergers, it is more important to foster a competitive culture in Europe, to cut subsidies, as I have just mentioned, to create genuine competition and to open up markets to competition from within and from outside.
The principle of an open market economy with free competition embodied in the EU Treaty is a permanent remit and needs to be worked towards every day both in this House and in the Member States.
