Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this year's budgetary process has been overshadowed by the deliberations on Agenda 2000.
Major strategic decisions are therefore not expected.
One is entitled to ask, however, whether or not this budgetary process shows that the European Institutions, the Council, Parliament and the Commission, are in possession of sufficient creative talent.
First a positive example: this year, our budgetary process has centred around the EU's capacity to act in the fight against unemployment.
The Sunday speeches should now be followed by effective action.
The question is, what can be actually be achieved, given that the EU budget of just under ECU 6 billion for internal policy matters is hardly adequate for major initiatives?
How do we guard against the illusion that the EU can do something which is really the responsibility of the Member States, the regions, communities and enterprises - namely to promote new employment opportunities in a reforming and innovative way?
How go we get away from the views of the Members of this House, who sought to add a rider to every existing programme so as to turn it into an employment promotion initiative?
How do we prevent the raising of expectations which cannot be fulfilled, as was the case with transeuropean networks?
This can now be seen in the proposal which we have developed for submission to the Council as part of a concerted action.
ECU 150 million for credit relief for SMEs, which is intended to affect assets of between ECU 5 billion and 6 billion.
This action promises more success than a certain employment initiative launched with great pomp and ceremony, namely transeuropean networks, whose job-creation component was from the outset nothing more than pure fiction.
It is regrettable that this scheme did not undergo public review, since my assessment of it would read "Fictions come to fictitious ends' .
The current initiative is a clear improvement for three reasons: it does not restrict itself to one single area, the construction sector, it focuses on smaller rather than major investment projects and it seeks to meet business head-on, thereby maximizing its catalytic impact.
It is to be hoped that the Council and many national governments, including ours in Germany, takes up Parliament's offer.
Now to the negative example: in December 1995 this House first made some ECU 150 million available for an urgent rebuilding programme in former Yugoslavia.
A lot of time has passed since then, though sadly little money has been forthcoming and what has been provided has had little or no impact.
Implementation rates are alarmingly low, the restructuring programme has become bogged down and the urgent house-building programme, which is essential to encourage the return of refugees, is completely inadequate, according to representatives sitting on the committee.
A proper review procedure is needed here to assess the international cooperation required for such a venture.
To improve matters, and for no other reason, the Committee has set aside a reserve fund.
Now it is up to the Commission.
It will have to improve its internal personnel management procedure and open up faster routes for the deployment of funds.
The recently agreed fund for democracy in Bosnia-Herzegovina should provide assistance here.
Yet we should not allow the Council to dodge its responsibility in this respect.
Regulations should be simplified in such a way as to focus attention not on the job-orders of home-based tendering companies, such as those based in Spain, but rather on the people of Bosnia.
How then do I sum up our creative achievements?
Members of Parliament, I leave the decision to you.
