Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the spectre of European mass unemployment is once again turning into a major scandal.
It is still unclear whether the summit in Luxembourg will be a PR exercise or whether it will seriously attempt to break down the door to a European exchange-rate policy.
We are therefore obliged, European United Left Members, to debate the minutiae of the matter, and that is something which we should do in all seriousness.
The urgency of the matter is not that employment constitutes an exceptional case, but rather that employment trends are symptomatic of a misplaced policy, a one-sided policy of promoting the supply sector, whose legacy after 10 years is now all too apparent.
This policy must now be ended.
The alternative is clear.
We either have an exchange-rate policy, and one which is not primarily macroeconomic, but rather which is aimed at a new socio-ecological development model in overall economic policy, or the European governments must take the blame for bringing in the euro on the backs of the unemployed.
The summit must not be a cover-up, promoting deregulation and flexibilization, nor should it seek to impose a policy of jobs with no real prospects.
Of course the attempt to apply the Maastricht method to employment policy, with the very sensible proposals made by Mr Juncker as well as by the Commission, is by no means just a continuation of previous policy.
There is the possibility that a door has now been opened, through which a majority of European states will later be able to pass in a determined manner.
I am assuming here that the political make-up will also change in the years ahead so that Bonn too will have a red-green government.
European employment policy requires a fresh approach in a number of areas.
We need an employment-oriented policy mix which incorporates social dialogue with training and education.
We must realise that the restructuring of industrial policy creates jobs.
What is basically required is a redistribution of labour and a reorganization and reduction of working hours.
France and Italy have set an example in this respect and have given us signs of hope.
We need a third sector between private enterprise and the conventional form of public services, which can organize public sector employment in such a way as to avoid the social barriers which have resulted from more than 10 years of neo-liberal policy.
It is our intention to hold a green summit in early November, at which our proposals can be developed and focussed.
I agree with Mr van Velzen that this is now not primarily a matter of funding, though naturally it cannot be financed from petty cash.
We now require the machinery and a clear idea of the issues we have to tackle.
Only then will the German government, currently holed-up in the brakeman's van, be able to see a clear track ahead and take the necessary turning.
Strategic playing of trump cards is simply no longer enough, Mr President.
The whole deck needs reshuffling.
