Madam President, I should like to begin by directing my sincere thanks and congratulations to the Commissioner and to the EU delegation at the recent talks.
This was a high point for European diplomacy which saw us taking the lead from the Americans for the first time.
In fact, the USA was left sitting in the dock.
Europe set the pace and those involved deserve our heartfelt congratulations.
This is something which we should emulate whenever possible.
At the same time, however, I have to point out that the numerous delegates from the European Parliament and the national parliaments who were present at Kyoto must cooperate more closely on this issue.
In Kyoto we were completely fragmented.
We were not even aware of one another, whereas the Americans had a very coordinated delegation and presented a very united presence.
This is a task for the management of Parliament and indeed for the Commission, with whom we should cooperate more closely in this respect.
This is really the first matter which concerns me, namely the ratification of the agreement by the US Senate.
The Council of Ministers' resolution of 16 October for Kyoto stated that the emission reduction targets for 2010 and 2005, which we have resolved to introduce, are technically achievable and economically feasible, provided that other industrial nations introduce comparable measures for the reduction of emissions.
What happens if the US Senate only ratifies the Kyoto agreement in two or three years time?
Does this mean that Europe can also wait two or three years, or even longer, or does it mean that we should initiate the main phases of the emission reduction process independently of the Americans?
This seems to me to be a key question for the Council.
It naturally affects the Commission too, but primarily concerns the Council.
The question which then arises is why we have not kept our original target of 15 %.
Each of us who has been concerned with this issue knows that the Kyoto agreement is the result of a diplomatic deal.
And if the climatologists are right, then we are falling well short of the requirements which have to be met.
For this reason too I would recommend sticking with the 15 % proposal.
It is one which will be supported by a large proportion of young people, as well as by those engaged in science and research, throughout Europe.
From this commitment will grow a new European identity - one which is based on obligation, rather than on a lifeless agreement.
My last request and proposal is that we should draw up a binding timetable - one which includes sanctions against those who do not keep to the obligations enshrined therein.
To do this we would require a management committee.
This might be based within the Commission, in whom I have every confidence, and should be capable of implementing the scheme as well as monitoring it.
Perhaps we also need a kind of interinstitutional agreement between the Council, the Commission and Parliament, such that each makes an appropriate contribution.
I am convinced that the various parties represented here, and certainly this applies to my own group, would be prepared to convert these dead letters into a living project.
