Mr President, Mrs Bonino looked quite frightened that she had just become responsible for environmental policy.
Let me make a few short remarks on the debate.
Can we please be clear about one thing: British farmers are certainly very much affected, but they are affected because a government did nothing for ten years.
The situation cannot improve dramatically because something has changed in the last year.
Let me say something about a possible lifting of the export ban for parts of Great Britain.
Mr Fischler will certainly do the same.
Yes, Great Britain has made proposals since May.
But presumably we all expect a scientific committee to take a view on this subject.
That is surely our understanding of safety, consumer confidence and health protection.
The Scientific Steering Committee quite clearly made additional demands.
If we want to work seriously here and not just worry about how we look from the outside, not just make the quick press report - I say that as selfcriticism - we should read the extensive reports, which are also available on the Internet very carefully, then we would know what this steering committee says about sheep, cattle, and other animals.
It is not easy to read, but we can read it, and then we know.
There are still needs now.
The steering committee says there is still no functioning certified herd scheme, not even in Northern Ireland.
I will be the first to support it when there is one.
I agree with those who say a postponement of this proposal is a good thing, if it will then be watertight.
Because we want it to be watertight.
If the USA believes it is BSE-free because it says it is, we must recognize that BSE-free is very clearly defined by the IEO, the International Epidemic Organization in Paris.
According to it, the USA is not BSEfree, to put it equally clearly.
And if the USA then thinks that it can ban certain imports and not others, that is wrong.
I expect the Commission to take action against it.
Also, Mr Fischler made a very clear distinction.
He said that meat can enter Great Britain on the bone and must be deboned there.
That is not an import ban.
Not to allow meat in at all is an import ban, and I definitely would not support that unless there were good reasons!
