Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must rather regret that the debate on food additives is sinking under cocoa and chocolate.
This subject is usually good for the emotions and it is used from time to time to upset food consumers.
It spans the range from falsified food ingredient lists, which regularly raises its head and is declared as scientific, to horror stories about damaging health effects.
The amendment to the guidelines before us today is the first major revision to the 1995 guidelines on additives, which comprehensively regulates this sector.
Even during consultation on the 1995 guidelines it became apparent that modifying guidelines would be necessary because a few additives were still undergoing scientific testing.
In my view four objectives are set by the present amendment to the guideline.
Firstly, the correction of some errors in the basic guideline of 1995; then the consideration of traditions in the new member countries of Austria, Finland and Sweden.
Also, some new additives had to be authorised and, arising from subsequent testing by the Scientific Food Committee of previously authorised additives, new uses or amended quantities had to be agreed.
Fourthly, a completely new annex of authorized additives for baby and infant foods had to be created.
Whereas the correction of errors, the incorporation of traditions in new member countries and the creation of an annex on baby and infant foods have proved largely uncontroversial, the other point has met with differing views within the groups.
Our group does not support Mrs Breyer's amendment on labelling, to the extent that labelling within this guideline is to be achieved with additives.
There is little to criticize in Mrs Breyer's demands on marking, as far as the content is concerned, but unfortunately, by their inclusion within the identification guidelines for additives, these amendment are located in the wrong place.
We have a comprehensive identification guideline, and it is here that amendments to the identification guidelines must be undertaken, if we are to stay within the law classification system.
We can support Amendment No 42 made by Mr Lannoye, which draws attention to the identification guideline.
I would ask the Commission to make a specific statement on Amendment No 42.
Then there is Amendment No 32.
Here I am torn both ways.
My name has also been incorrectly connected with it.
I should like to ask the Commission about No 32, on nisin.
I have meanwhile learnt that this is very useful for problems with egg products, and I should like to know how the Commission stands on that.
There is heated discussion about Amendment No 6, which was accepted in Committee by a small majority.
This concerns the designation E407 or E408 for treated eucheuma algae.
In a previous amendment to the guidelines we passed the designation E407a after two readings in the European Parliament.
This legislation came into force in March this year, and there is absolutely no sense in altering this European Union designation, when it has only just come into force and is, in any case, internationally recorded as a WHO designation.
Contrary to what it says in the comments to Amendment No 6, publication has already taken place in the Official Journal, so it is existing law.
I should also like to explain my Amendment No 30, which at the beginning is the same as Amendment No 31 by Mrs Jackson and Amendment No 38 by Mr Whitehead.
This concerns the use of SO2 , sulphur dioxide, for preservation of dried fruit.
According to Mrs Breyer this point should be completely deleted, as in her view the use of sorbic acid is quite sufficient.
All the information I have received fails to support this view, as sorbic acid merely affects the discolouration, the darkening, and not the conservation.
Also the Commission's text, as it has been given to us, is not quite correct from a technological standpoint.
Apples and pears, in particular, with a moisture content of more than 12 % are sold to end consumers, and must be treated with a higher dose than products that are merely intended for further processing.
Because of these different uses there is a need for the application of different quantities.
In my Amendment No 30 I propose, therefore, just as does the Economic and Social Committee, a better differentiation, and I am obviously opposed to Amendment No 11 by the rapporteur.
The use of additives is, after careful scientific testing, a technological necessity in many cases.
Precisely this technological necessity has been repeatedly emphasized by the European Parliament.
According to the checks available to me the Commission is in this respect worthy of support.
