Madam President, I am pleased that we have all come to the conclusion that employment policy is now a focal issue for the European Union.
This is due in no small part to the prominence which this matter has been given by the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission.
It is now absolutely essential for us to focus our attention on youth unemployment, which now stands at over 20 % for Europe as a whole, with peaks of over 40 % in some of the Member States.
This means that by failing to tackle this problem the EU will be faced with a social powder keg which will threaten the entire future of the Union.
I would therefore like to direct my attention to measures seeking to combat youth unemployment.
I urgently request that we pursue our efforts with renewed vigour, both at national as well as at European level.
In this context President Santer has stated that we need new strategies which must be both diverse and durable and, if I may add, most importantly practical.
Here I wish to focus on a number of measures whose implementation is necessary, in my opinion, to combat youth unemployment.
Firstly, we should strive to provide young people with a basic education which includes both a fundamental knowledge of EDP skills and the language of another EU country, with a view to increasing their job mobility.
Secondly, mobility should be an educational requirement, and by this I mean students and teachers alike, since the latter are often not fully familiar with the concept.
This means that we must try to direct the Union's available capacity towards mobility programmes and overcoming existing barriers to the application of such programmes.
Thirdly, we must learn to educate people to meet the actual needs of the job market.
All too often we tend to over-educate.
I would suggest that annual reports be prepared to assist the Member States in this respect, in order that training and education can be tailored to meet the needs of the future.
Fourthly, we should harmonize our skills training, that is to say we must bring this to the level proposed by the Commission.
Dual training, which is regarded as the optimum solution, should for example be introduced into all European states.
Fifthly, we need to speed-up the creation of new businesses, since the greatest potential is to be found in small and medium-sized enterprises and because many young people want to become instructors and to adopt the American system of business angels.
Finally, to promote innovation in the business sector, I would propose the introduction of networked innovation exchanges throughout Europe for the purpose of displaying and implementing new ideas.
I see the employment summit as a real opportunity to encourage employment throughout Europe, particularly for the younger generation who represent the future of Europe.
