Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I would first like to say how pleased I am that our resolution today has been supported by six groups in this House.
I think that is a sign of how important it is actually to establish a court of law to replace the interim courts for Ruanda and Yugoslavia.
The United Nations have realized the necessity for establishing such a court, because war crimes and internal armed conflicts do not occur just in these two countries, but in many other countries where it is necessary for this kind of court to operate.
We have seen that with our previous courts we have legally been skating on thin ice and that the room for action of these courts has been very limited.
It is also important that this resolution demands that clear definitions should be established at the talks preparatory to the conference, which thankfully takes place next year in Italy and is organized by the United Nations for the express purpose of setting up this court.
What is a war criminal?
What is an internal armed conflict?
And it is obviously very important also that this court - and this should if possible be clarified in the preparatory meetings - can operate independently of the United Nations and Security Council, so that matters are not constantly blocked by these institutions for professional reasons.
A great number of important things have taken place here, and I think it is not only I who thinks that this is a first step towards controlling conflict in the future.
Large problems still lie ahead of us, particularly in view of the fact that throughout the world there is so far no ethnic group law.
We have only national and constitutional law, but no law that defines and establishes what the rights of an ethnic group are, and where they can be brought before a court.
I think the creation of this sort of court of law is a first step towards this enormously important right.
If we look at conflicts over the past few years we see that most of them were in fact conflicts between various ethnic groups.
I think this will be a great step forward and that we as the European Parliament should do everything possible to see that it is successful.
I realize that certain financial obligations arise from it, in order for the project for an International Criminal Court really to become established and to flourish.
