Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, with the Méndez de Vigo/Tsatsos report, the European Parliament has today sent an important political message to the Member States to ratify the Amsterdam Treaty.
As Members of the European Parliament, we do so with increased self-confidence.
For in the run-up to the treaty reform the European Parliament led the way for the discussions that followed as an engine for further integration.
I am thinking here of my colleagues Mr Bourlanges, Mr Martin, Mrs Dury and Mrs Maij-Weggen.
The European Parliament was able to play an important role in the discussions on treaty reform both with respect to the discussions themselves and in regard to public provision.
Special thanks should go to our former President, Mr Klaus Hänsch, the incumbent President, Mr Gil-Robles Gil Delgado, and the Members Elisabeth Guigou and Elmar Brok.
The European Parliament has come out the winner in the results of the treaty reform.
75 % of the legislation will be codecided by us, and we will also elect the Commission President in future.
In actual fact: Amsterdam, following the Single European Act and Maastricht, was an intergovernmental conference at which, once again, a difficult compromise between the various interests of nation states had to be reached.
There is no doubt that it was only the change from Conservative to Labour government in Britain and France that made a social policy without opt-out and an employment chapter at all possible.
If we consider the scale of what has been achieved, we can see already that it is quite considerable.
First, with employment we have progressed via a chapter of our own to coordinating the policies of the Member States, to facilitating financially assisted incentive measures and to creating a committee on employment.
Second, the agreement reached on social policy has been integrated into the treaty and improved.
We now have a real chance to actively implement equality between the sexes.
Third, where the environment is concerned, sustained development has been taken up as a treaty objective and the ecological goal for all Community policies implemented in the treaty.
The same applies to improved provision in the area of health care.
Fourth, home affairs and justice.
We now have an express safeguard for the basic democratic and constitutional structures at Union level and a guarantee of basic rights, with assured legal protection through the European Court of Justice.
We have begun to apply Community-wide procedures in the areas of asylum, immigration, control of external borders, status of non-EU citizens and customs collaboration.
We are also seeing the procedures of intergovernmental cooperation moving towards those of the Community and thereby witnessing a more precise definition of duties and powers, particularly in the area of crime-fighting.
I am thinking here of greater support for Europol.
Fifth, foreign policy through the creation of an identifiable figure in the form of the Secretary-General of the Council, strengthening of the structures through the setting-up of an analysis and planning unit, and a new troika formula including the EU Commissioner.
The funding must occur in accordance with general budget requirements in conjunction with our inter-institutional agreement.
There are approaches to majority voting within the framework of the jointly approved strategies and, above all, the inclusion in the EU's responsibilities of the Petersburg agreement.
That is one side of the coin.
The other side is - let us be open about this - that a lot of the proposals were much too timid.
In many areas, especially home affairs and justice, foreign and security policy, only slight progress has been made, and the three pillars have not been surmounted.
The European Parliament has come out in favour of a tree as the symbol of a growing community and not for three rigid pillars.
This also applies to the deficiencies where the coordination of economic policies is concerned, and to the fact that majority decisions involving equal representation on the part of the European Parliament have not been included in the legislative procedure in general.
Above all, important institutional reforms are lacking in regard to the Council and Commission.
We contend that this is not going to make today's European Union capable of enlargement.
The European Parliament is generally critical of what has been achieved - and rightly so, for a whole series of our demands have not been realized!
Still, we should not get into the habit, neither internally nor publicly, particularly where questions of European integration are concerned, of only registering successes in silence while constantly carping on about the questions left open.
That will not take us forward in Europe!
And I say to you that, in my judgement as a trade unionist too, the positive aspects outweigh the negative.
That is why we can give our consent in Parliament.
I also say this following the discussions with the national parliaments we have heard here.
I also say this following the discussions we have held with the representatives of non-governmental organizations.
For us there were only signs of approval.
There were no signs that Parliament should reject this treaty outright.
That means for me as spokesperson for the socialist group that we will be giving our political consent to it today in this House.
I am very conscious of the heckling from colleagues among the Greens.
I deeply regret that you want to vote against ratification.
I recall that a number of you brought an action in the Federal Constitutional Court against the Maastricht Treaty, while others fought against your country joining the EU.
It lacks credibility if you only welcome the European idea in its mature form and shirk responsibility on a central question and timidly vote no.
The European Union today is on the threshold of making some of the most important decisions in its nigh-on fifty-year-old history of integration - treaty reform in 1997, entry negotiations in 1998, euro currency in 1999 and a new financial framework from the year 2000.
To achieve this, we need the political vision for further institutional reforms to make the European Union work better following enlargement.
That is why the reforms must take place before enlargement, but the reforms should not delay this process either.
Not at all!
This is not an attempt to square the circle, but the situation should not be solved with the methods employed to date.
Hence, it is important for the European Parliament to develop concepts now for the next steps towards integration.
Thanks to my colleague Mrs van Putten, I had the opportunity to talk to journalists, officials and others at the Amsterdam Summit, in the Central Bank and on the fringe of the negotiations.
I sometimes thought that if the citizens of Europe witnessed this type of negotiation, they would not understand Europe in future.
We need to turn Europe into more of an open process, where controversy is debated, and help bring about greater involvement of those who have been elected for this purpose in their own countries, that is to both the national parliaments and the European Parliament, In this way the resolutions needed are not lost in a long night beset with internal problems or the institutional reforms do not fail on the pretext of those who wish to hold the new democracies in central and eastern Europe hostage for their national interests.
Europe, that means its citizens.
Their consent to the Community depends on the success of the Community's policies.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has a host of advantages.
The ruling of the European Court on women's equality is a great encouragement set against this background.
The European Employment Summit needs practical success.
It should not founder on the blockade of the German Federal Government.
We all know that nationalism results from unresolved European problems.
National problems can only be solved jointly, that is on a European scale.
Hence we need to strengthen the European Union, and Amsterdam makes the European Union stronger!
