Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, first of all I would like to thank my colleague Per Stenmarck for his excellent report.
As usual, he has taken painstaking care with the question of shipping safety and passenger ships in particular.
I think it is most important that we are at last tackling common European safety standards for passenger ships including those on inland waterways.
It is important that we have common safety requirements for the construction of ships, fire prevention and the rescue equipment carried on board.
I also consider it very important that we have useful common standards regardless of the class of passenger ship.
I believe passenger confidence suffered a heavy blow, as Per Stenmarck rightly said, with the particularly severe and tragic accident in the Baltic Sea, and we have to regain their confidence in passenger ships.
One small cause for complaint, Mr Commissioner, is that we still have no free marine cabotage; we are still using transitional regulations.
Free competition is still not with us, but it is important that we agree on common safety regulations in preparation for liberalization.
I am also pleased that Council, the Commission and Parliament have taken a common position on a number of aspects, for example, that states with superior regulations have a say on the use of ships from other countries.
I consider it important that additional safety regulations can be applied internally for the safety of citizens, because hazardous situations vary greatly within the European Union.
Allow me finally a particularly important practical query which my college Mr Watts has already mentioned.
How do we ensure that the regular inspection of ships by the flag nations, as laid down in article 10 of the directive, is actually carried out?
I know we poor things are always the ones left talking between 11 p.m. and midnight, but we have almost got to enjoy it now.
Perhaps, Mr Commissioner, you could describe again how the Commission, as part of its responsibility for controlling marine nations, will ensure here too in six or twelve months' time that the obligatory inspection of ships by the flag nations is actually carried out, so as to ensure safety standards are met in each case.
How is the Commission going to organize this?
The question of control of Member States by the Commission is after all something we should all support.
