Mr President, Madam Commissioner, Madam Rapporteur, I come from the North Sea coast, and it is very important where I live to make sure before setting sail anywhere that the cargo is evenly distributed, otherwise the vessel will start to roll and list.
It is my opinion that the Research Committee's resolution conceals the same danger.
What has happened?
In spring this House unanimously adopted a report from our colleague Claude Desama, in which it was clearly stated that research should contribute to the European welfare-state model, not just to industrial competitiveness.
Then the latter-day freebooters, the lobbyists, came along and stood up for particular interests.
Hence, the ship is now starting to list, I feel, and this second pillar - the question of how things stand with risk assessment, sustainability and deliberation, and who has the opportunities in our society under what conditions -has been washed overboard.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is also an important site factor for Europe and for our society.
Not just technology, but how we treat each other, how we live, these are the key elements for our future development, for the interests of Europe's citizens.
We said quite clearly at the time: it is a matter of finding a socio-economic model of sustainable growth.
We said: we want risk assessment, we want to clarify the question of participation and the role of the social partners in our society.
All this has vanished.
That is why I would like to urgently request again that we get things back on an even keel.
It is a question of research efforts and, of course, finding money for these research efforts in this socioeconomic area.
Obviously, this is a new baby.
We did not introduce it until the fourth framework programme.
There were problems.
Things improved with the new leader in Mitsos.
But that is no reason to say we have reached the end of the road.
What is it all about?
It concerns, for example, the question of information and communication technologies, who has access and under what circumstances.
The gender issue, the change in employment due to teleworking and, of course, the question of worker participation and the change in job organization are also significant.
All this needs to be fully reflected if we intend to explore and continue to introduce certain technologies.
For this reason, I am making an urgent plea that Amendment No 117 and, of course, Amendment No 123 be adopted so that our ship, the research vessel for the future, can stay on an even keel and steer the proper course.
