Madam President, although we are concerned today with a degree of urgency about North Korea, we must still be absolutely clear that we are not discussing a normal country.
North Korea is a country which behaves as though it were free of all moral obligations.
It is a totalitarian state unlike any other.
It cannot be compared in its actions with any other country.
For this reason it is, in my opinion, quite wrong for us at a time when we are confronted with the biggest famine in the second half of this century, to try to convince some people that this is just a matter of catastrophic flooding, periods of drought and the like.
There was famine in North Korea even when these terrible environmental catastrophes were not taking place.
They just amplify what is taking place there.
Let us be honest with ourselves.
Even the Chinese now admit that this is due to the politics of North Korea, and these politics, Mr Ford, have not altered in recent times.
There has been famine much longer than just over the past four years.
The figures speak for themselves, even if they are not clear.
All NGOs active there, the various organizations already mentioned, give varying figures.
But every one of them talks of many millions of people subjected to this famine, of some 800, 000 starving children, of the first evidence of cannibalism, and of aid being rejected again and again by North Korea as being political agitation.
That is not acceptable to us.
For that reason we must make a clear statement from this Parliament that we make both our short term and our long term aid subject to certain conditions.
Short term aid must be quite clearly subject to the condition that we say we want to know where our aid is ending up.
It is just not acceptable that the majority of the aid actually reaching North Korea really benefits the military and does not reach the civilian population in anything like the quantity required.
As for long term aid, it will also be necessary to make this dependent upon real improvements within the country.
I think the proposal by Mr Dupuis, that we should begin with the privatization of land, would be a very important example.
I think it is our duty as a Parliament to vote accordingly.
