Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe responsible businesses have been providing for the delivery of animals in the best condition.
Many transport firms have allowed inspection in order to counter repeated criticisms of animal transport.
We should take note of this fact also in today's general debate.
Unfortunately, there is always a reverse side to the medal.
This is what the report by Mrs Anttila emphasizes: that there are those who do not pay sufficient attention to providing transport suitable for animals.
It is now up to us to take the initiative and confront them with all the rigour of the law.
In order to improve the transport of live animals we must demand compliance with the following points:
Firstly, the frequency of controls should be increased, both within the EU and in third countries.
Transport problems usually occur not because of faults in the legislation, but in its execution.
Secondly, specific transport conditions which meet EU legislation must be produced and, most particularly, agreed.
That includes the recipient third countries.
Thirdly, we need strict and rigorously applied sanctions against gross negligence or premeditated transgression of animal welfare regulations.
And last but not least, Madam Commissioner, we require the European Commission so to set the export repayments for beef and cattle for slaughter, that there is no longer any economic incentive to export live animals to third countries.
In the international transport industry in particular, effective animal welfare is only possible with unified European legislation.
I do not deny that this is a very difficult and laborious process at European level, otherwise we should not have been talking about his subject for such a long time.
I am also aware, of course, that granting export subsidies is frequently open to general criticism.
Natural production conditions, environmental limitations, animal welfare criteria and animal health regulations in the EU mean, however, that our domestic beef product is less good value than that from the Argentine or the USA.
In commerce it is usual in such cases for rising costs simply to force businesses to move abroad.
Our farmers cannot do that, so that WTO agreements on the beef industry now provide for a drastic reduction in beef exports and subsidies on exports.
Between 1995 and 2001 they are due to be reduced from 1.1 million to 0.8 million tonnes.
Whilst that is one way, I think that European agriculture, what with BSE and growing surpluses, is going to be under constant pressure.
I think we should prohibit animal transport generally.
For the consumer that sounds good, but on the other hand consumers are not prepared to pay more for the product, just so that we can afford this luxury.
