Mr President, Mr Commissioner, today's discussion is in a sense a rehearsal for the debate we shall be having in exactly a month on Agenda 2000 and thus on the enlargement of the European Union.
Talking about the Phare programme means the countries of central Europe, all of which - sooner or later - are waiting to be admitted into the European Union.
The basis of today's debate is a special report of the Court of Auditors.
It is in the nature of such reports that it deals with difficulties and problems, so one might be tempted to be pessimistic and there are signs of that already.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, Mrs Kjer Hansen, expressly for not succumbing to this temptation.
That does not mean that we should not take the Court's report seriously, on the contrary!
We all know that the candidate countries have a long way to go.
This is nothing new, but the Court makes it clear that the Commission, too, will have to change its ways considerably if the enlargement process is not to be a disaster.
I know how difficult the task of the Commission is and can understand, Mr Commissioner, if you sometimes feel like a whipping boy.
On the one hand we regret here in Parliament that the funds we have provided as budgetary authorities have in fact only been partially disbursed, and will remain so.
In the next breath we come along and complain about everything that has gone awry with the funds that have been spent.
But both are part of our responsibility as Parliament and I hope you will take the adverse remarks made here as constructive criticism, as a spur to further efforts.
A key word in this connection is concentration of forces.
In fact we have had the impression all too often in the past that both the Commission and the Phare countries themselves were wasting their time trying to identify worthwhile projects to support.
It was apparent that the system for implementing the programme was unwieldy and incurred considerable unnecessary costs.
So it is right that the duties of all those involved need to be clearly defined, the number of programmes reduced and the Commission delegations on the ground must have their staffs and their powers reinforced so they can ensure effective programme supervision.
That is what we want to see, and the Court of Auditors has made the same point.
