Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the history of the world and of Europe this century is a story of wars and of war crimes, but only partially a story of the prosecution for war crimes.
That is why I think that with this motion we are supporting a basic idea that is absolutely essential.
We cannot accept that simple murder is subject to prosecution, obviously quite rightly and necessarily, whereas mass murder frequently goes unpunished and many mass murderers can go about their daily lives as though they were respectable people.
I think the few cases where international courts have been established to deal with war crimes, complemented by one or two private initiatives - think of the Stockholm Tribunal and others - are really not up to this dramatic situation, so that we are repeatedly confronted, even in Europe unfortunately, by wars and such numbers of war crimes that our claims to civilization are completely unfounded.
For that reason I fully support this motion, as does my group, even though there are obviously several problems.
I did not understand from Mr Ephremidis whether he was for or against it, since all his points were arguments against.
I think he was called as a supporter, however.
Whatever the reason, that is a contradiction that does happen.
Naturally he is right in saying that one or the other problem will arise.
Our international political system must and will change when there is the certainty that there are independent international courts who are obliged to prosecute matters, even if perhaps political considerations weigh against it.
Clearly there is the danger that political decisions, political compromises and even some peace treaties may be blocked when the one who wants peace has to reckon on being questioned before an international court afterwards.
I should like to raise just two points.
Firstly, it is naturally critical who can be called to account.
Here too the present situation is unsatisfactory.
Although underlings may be called to account, those who give the orders for war crimes by and large escape the consequences, particularly those from the political side.
I do not think that should happen, because it contradicts the spirit of justice to try the one who carries out the crime, but to ignore the one who initiates it.
Secondly, the duty of giving evidence.
I do not entirely agree either with the most recent decision that a Croat Minister is not even obliged to give evidence.
I think that when we have these international regulations it will have to be clear that anyone, regardless of his person, must be prosecuted, and anyone, regardless of his position, is duty bound to give evidence under oath before this international court.
