Mr President, we as Members of this Parliament, both individually and as a body, have no need to lose our composure over television reporting of this kind.
I have nothing to reproach myself for, neither has this Parliament.
We conduct our business conscientiously.
Maybe a report of this kind shows that we need a set of rules.
We ought to make it clear that we are a European Parliament which covers a large area and has a certain method of working.
That is something special.
It is something which should possibly be discussed in the Council of the European Union, and equal rights should be afforded to all Members of this House so that journalistic stunts of this kind cannot be repeated.
A debate has already been held on the procedure.
Clearly, there were three other speakers to come, and the fact is this House is often less than full, since other political obligations necessitate this.
Journalism of this kind is in my opinion poorly researched and, as such, worthless.
It merely serves to drag politics through the mire.
We are abused and accused - this is the second time that I have been the focus of such treatment by the Dutch Press.
We sign attendance lists.
Once it was reported that I had signed the list in the evening.
Yet I had in fact signed morning, afternoon and evening, as I was attending several meetings that day.
Such poor research merits no justification on our part and I do not think we should discuss the matter further.
Reporting of this kind seeks merely to denigrate politics and to suggest that politics can no longer regulate or fashion our society, that it is no longer an expression of our society.
We do not need this type of journalism.
Journalists of this sort can stay well away.
We do not need them to report the business of this House.
Mrs Fontaine, you were in the Chair throughout the sitting.
You are always worth listening to when you are in the Chair, you carry out your duties efficiently and in this respect you are a symbol for us that this piece of reporting was badly researched.
As a Parliament we should state that we have nothing to reproach ourselves with, that we need have no further dealings with this level of journalism, and we should confidently get on with our work.
