Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am very grateful to Mr Willockx for having clearly shown in his report the extent to which social and economic policy are interdependent rather than being mutually exclusive or opposites, whereas for that very reason it has already virtually become commonplace within the 15 Member States of the European Union to attribute the growing pressure for reform which exists at many levels in politics solely to the EU.
There is already a discernible tendency for the convergence criteria to be taken as an excuse for not reforming social security systems, but deregulating them.
It must be obvious to all of us that this is scarcely a suitable basis for maintaining wealth and well-being, and that a more comprehensive examination of the problems is needed.
Our objective is a genuine European Union, underpinned by social harmony, and not just a superior free trade zone that ignores social policy.
Of course we should not underestimate demographic change.
Over the last decade alone, life expectancy has increased by two to three years.
That alone should be sufficient incentive to treat the question of living standards more fully.
It is certainly necessary to shift the tax burden from employment not only to capital, energy consumption and environmental impact, but also to value added.
But it is certain that the greatest distortions in competition that we see are due to differences between taxation systems.
That is where have to start.
It is more likely to lead us to our objective than indiscriminate pressure on social systems or on social support mechanisms.
Thus the key conditions for putting the financing of social security systems on a stable footing again are a European taxation policy in accordance with the Commission's Monti memorandum, combined with a European social pact to solve the problem of unemployment, and continuity in economic growth.
A debate on the future of social security in the EU is long overdue, and we - the European Parliament - could make a positive contribution to it with all our initiatives.
The reports contain very strong proposals to this effect.
