Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time the European Parliament has concerned itself with the question of how we should play our part long term in the marked reduction of trace gases relevant to climatic change, in order to achieve a real alteration in climate.
The Group of the European People's Party agrees with the rapporteur on very many points.
We need clear and straightforward regulations in order really to achieve all the measures required within the general category of long term economic management.
This concerns many areas, not just energy and industrial policies.
These points have already been discussed.
I should also like to say, however, that we must approach all these problems undogmatically.
We must also change our attitudes a little, each in his own specialization, so that we can arrive at a common decision.
Climate protection and economic success are not mutually exclusive, but can be reconciled by, for example, the issue of emission permits - as you mentioned, Madam Commissioner.
I think that is the right idea.
We in the EPP Group have little sympathy for the establishment of an international Climate Agency.
If this should prove to be Kyoto's sole success, then we shall have failed, then we really shall not have achieved anything!
We think it is quite the wrong beginning, to solve environmental problems by the creation of new bureaucracies.
At both European and international levels there any number of bureaucracies available to us.
More efficient linkage of existing authorities would be a different matter.
There is a very sensible proposal in point 16 of the Linkohr resolution.
We agree with that, but please, no new administrations whose main function is cooperation with other administrations.
That will not solve any climate problems!
I should also like to say that we in the PPE Group will support Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel's amendment.
The OECD presented calculations just this weekend showing that a CO2 tax, for example, together with a reduction in taxes on labour as a factor of production, could be really practical.
That is not a matter of dogma for our group, and we shall support it.
We must also make our views felt, of course, when it comes to reminding other large economic regions of their responsibilities for climate protection.
Climate protection cannot function if reductions in some regions, such as the European Union, result in more emissions in others, because of relocation of industry.
Here it is our duty, through our numerous delegations, to work with all our partners worldwide.
