Mr President, I hope that if I point to my work I might perhaps gain a second or two?
It was less than nine years ago, yet worlds away.
On 1 August 1989, on the Austrian-Hungarian border, a first breach in what was then still the Iron Curtain was made.
The opening of the Brandenburg Gate a few months later began the collapse of the Eastern bloc, and simultaneously resulted in the creation of free, sovereign and democratic states, which have now rightly reminded us of their position as candidates for membership of the Union.
The Union is facing this historic challenge.
The enlargement to the East actually promises enormous political and economic gains for us all.
Gains in security, and as far as external security is concerned I believe that I do not have to justify that.
We must work on the gains in internal security.
New economic opportunities are linked to this enlargement to the east, and one would expect to find agreement and even enthusiasm in Europe.
There is none to be found, or very little.
They are outweighed by scepticism and fear.
Even in Austria, my country, which is returning for the first time for many years from the periphery to the centre, many people are afraid that uncontrolled cheap labour and cheap agricultural products will rush in.
In other parts of the Union, people are nervous about the money from the structural and cohesion funds.
In this situation, we must ensure that we make clear to all those who are affected that there is nothing to fear.
At least, not if we use all the opportunities of the enlargement, and not if, to the extent that it is necessary and justified, we ensure that no-one is left behind, by careful negotiation results with appropriate transition rules, and if necessary also with individual, targeted support actions.
A final word of congratulation to the Luxembourgers.
They have shown - as has been said several times today - that a small country can contribute a great deal to Europe.
I hope that Austria, which will take over the presidency in autumn next year as the next of the small and medium-sized Member States, will carry out this task as well as Luxembourg has.
(Applause)
