Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the speed with which information technology and new services develop indeed demands a rapid reaction by legislators, in order to prevent abuse.
I believe that a regulation at European level is relevant here, even though I do see difficulties in establishing common European values.
I am particularly pleased that the important role of self-responsibility has been stressed in Mr Whitehead's report.
Education of the individual is important, particularly family criticism.
In this respect I think it is essential to ensure in every member state a policy of education within families and schools, which imparts to our young people a sensible knowledge of how one copes with the media, both new and old.
I do not mean here the well-known advice, simply to press the off button.
On the contrary, within the family circle critical attitudes to the press must be exercised, and they can be fruitful only by means of a joint analysis of content and objectives.
Here too, education provides a well-known model.
For this reason parents must be included much more in media education.
I consider joint training and further education courses for parents and teachers to be very sensible in this area, as in many others.
The information campaign proposed in the report could indeed be very helpful here.
We must raise the awareness of this problem of everyone responsible for education and training, and give them sufficient information about developments in technology.
Many parents and teachers have enormous fear of first contact with new technology, and thus do not know of the danger for their children.
In addition, each puts the blame on the other.
They do not realise that media education must take place both in the family home and in the classroom, and start at nursery school.
We must start there.
Joint further education must be organised by cooperation between nursery schools, schools and parents.
The awareness of all participants can be raised in this way and we can effectively prevent damage to our children.
Technical security means, such as the V chip, should not be allowed to relieve parents and teachers of their responsibility.
My thanks to Mr Whitehead for his excellent report and I am particularly pleased that all the points I have mentioned are included in it.
