Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we put this topic on the agenda because we wanted to make sure that something was finally done.
The Commission then brought forward a proposal on 3 December, after we had already set the wheels in motion.
I have looked at the explanatory statement for the regulation, which was adopted without reference to the Parliament, as the joint Committee for Foodstuffs is responsible for it.
I was amazed.
We have been arguing with the Commission for nearly half a year, and the Commission has always said that it was not necessary to adopt a special regime.
Now, in points 8, 9 and 20 of its explanatory statement it has used precisely the argument that we have always put forward.
I do not quite understand that.
I am grateful that the Commission has now seen its way to doing this, but I would like the Commission to explain to me why it battled for so long against the Parliament's ideas.
We naturally support the DNA checking envisaged by the Commission, subject - as Mrs Breyer has just commented - to the analysis method to be used for this check being prescribed at the same time.
This is the only way to make this proposal practicable and to ensure that proper information is forthcoming.
The European Commission's Standing Committee on Foodstuffs had a very intensive session on this proposal yesterday involving the Member States, and it now looks as if the Commission and Council will make a decision in January.
This will clear the way, at least in the case of the labelling of genetically modified soya beans and genetically modified maize, for the provisions of the Regulation adopted on 19 September 1997, which came into force on 1 November 1997, but whose implementation subsequently had to be delayed until 1 February 1998, to be implemented by the Member States by the new deadline.
We welcome all this, but why has it taken so long?
However, I have a few more questions for the Commission.
First of all, I would be grateful if the Commissioner could tell us something about the outcome of yesterday's meeting of the Committee on Foodstuffs.
My second question is this: this year's soya and maize harvest in the USA has finished, but we can assume that genetically modified products are already on the way to Europe or are even already in Europe.
What is the Commission's estimate of the risk that genetically modified maize and genetically modified soya will be exported to Europe mixed with conventional products, without the necessary approval for marketing in the countries of the European Union under Part C of the 1990 Directive?
How many applications for such marketing approval have been submitted to the European Commission?
How will the Commission ensure that a decision can be reached in good time on all pending applications for marketing approval?
Does the Commission have an idea of the extent of deliveries of such organisms to Europe from the USA and Canada?
How does the Commission rate the risk of trade conflicts with our North American trading partners, if products cannot be marketed in the European Union without approval for the parts containing genetically modified organisms?
I am conscious, Commissioner, that you are probably not in a position to answer all my questions in detail today.
But I would like to put these questions to you and I would be grateful if they could be answered by the beginning of January.
