Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
Chocolate is a sweet seduction; for some it is a sin, for the European Union it is a red rag to a bull.
Yet chocolate is just a minor addition to the nutrition of Mankind.
No one prescribes how much salami should be on a pizza, or how many strawberries there should be on a strawberry flan.
For this the recipe is enough.
Only with chocolate we would have it otherwise!
There are two markets in Europe who defend their positions to the bitter end, partly even using doubtful means.
The blockade, or chocolate guideline, really belongs on the scrapheap of European development.
Unfortunately we are not there yet, but I say in advance that we shall get there one day.
I think the discussion has made one thing clear, and that is that we shall reach a satisfactory solution only if we respect the differing traditions.
It is imperative here that this mutual respect should be harmonised with the objectives of the internal market, and with the protection and information of the European consumer.
For this we should hold to the principle that is the norm for food on the internal market: mutual acknowledgement of national regulations, such as those about the constituents of foods.
This principle works, and that is partly because unified European labelling laws guarantee and cover both consumer protection and the need of the consumer for information.
Thus it would be wrong to ban in Europe constituents from vegetable fats other than cocoa butter, or to make the use of these fats legally binding throughout Europe.
Then there could be no question of any further mutual respect.
The right approach is to allow Member States alone to decide on permitted alternative vegetable fats, but to authorise trade in them.
It is then right to give the consumer clear, unequivocal and easily understood information about the composition.
We have resolutions before us that would achieve this and would aim at a truly European initiative, namely casting the above mentioned respect for differing traditions into the shape of a guideline.
I should like to call on all colleagues to agree with this initiative.
We should be particularly warned against one-sided labelling regulations permitting the word "Chocolate' to be used only on one part of the European product, or about falsifying the transport designation.
During the last amendment to the Labelling Guidelines this Parliament fought a hard battle with the Council of Ministers to prevent discriminatory labelling regulations which distorted the competitiveness of the product.
We would do ourselves a great service if we were to demand the same for chocolate, and permit it.
At this point I should also like to emphasize that the above mentioned initiative would really be a compromise which lay almost exactly in the middle of all possible solutions.
We should be quite clear that the decision of the Commission and the Committee is actually on the right path.
Let us use the opportunity, let us prove that we think European and do not follow national interests!
