Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report by Mr Wiebenga is an excellent one.
It can help to remove the helplessness of European Union states which has been revealed by the sudden appearance of refugee streams from various regions surrounding Europe and from Europe itself.
Only in recent years have we seen that problems leading to streams of refugees into the European Union, but originating within Europe, have been inadequately mastered by the European Union.
Incidentally, they were inadequately dealt with politically, because there are forces amongst the Member States of the EU who are represented here in this House, who spoke in this debate, and who are just waiting to exploit refugee influxes as part of their political tactics.
The extreme right in this House, namely, has the effrontery to make a speech here like the one just made by my colleague Mr Gollnisch.
In this he used a phrase which I really must comment on.
Mr Gollnisch, you said you asked yourself why Algerians were coming to France in such large numbers.
I ask myself the same question, when I think that in France an Algerian could meet you.
He would immediately make a run for it to some other country, I am quite sure of that.
You should ponder that the cause of refugee streams such as this one from Algeria can also be found in the fact that your country's arms industry was delivering weapons up to a short time ago to the parties contributing to this flight.
Mr President, Mr Gollnisch has just made an impolite gesture at me.
I request that you note that in the Minutes, because I consider it an honour to be designated as mad by a fascist.
That can only mean that I must be a serious politician.
I congratulate Mr Wiebenga on one point.
He has made proposals which can be construed as meaning that the governments of the European Union and also the institutions of the European Union, particularly the Commission, should do more than they have already in one direction.
That is that we should put into practice our claim, made from time to time in this Parliament, to formulate our strategy for solving political problems based not only on monetary and economic considerations, but mainly on humanitarian ones.
The Wiebenga report can make a useful contribution to that.
