Madam President, we are not hoping for miracles from the employment summit, but we do expect that from now on the problem of 18 million unemployed in Europe will be treated with due seriousness, that is to say that it will be at the top of all agendas.
The credibility of European policy depends on the extent to which results can be achieved, and not only for millions of unemployed people and their families.
As Jean-Claude Juncker has just outlined, that means not just singing the same old song, but actually beginning a new refrain with new lyrics to match.
The principle of subsidiarity is not being violated.
While main responsibility continues to lie with the Member States, it is now time to give practical effect to the common strategy for employment, as agreed at the Essen summit.
Commission President Jacques Santer is correct in saying that integrated, coordinated action must now be taken, and without further delay.
The Essen summit correctly focussed on five recognized key areas, namely investment in vocational training, raising the employment index, reducing wage incidentals, a more effective labour market policy and measures to assist groups affected by unemployment.
These also feature highly in the report submitted by Wim van Velzen, which is a precise and focussed piece of work, and we intend further to improve the situation through amendments from the Group of the European People's Party.
Employment and economic policy are two sides of the same coin of a social market economy.
We therefore need convergence criteria for employment in order to supplement the stability pact initiated by Theo Waigel.
The level of commitment of the Member States must be available for monitoring and inspection.
Clearly we need to survey what has been accomplished, but also what remains to be accomplished, and this should include the annual reports submitted to the European Parliament.
Only through qualitative objectives with clear time definitions will we reach the standard needed to evaluate the effective coordination of national policies.
Our key targets are ultimately achievable.
In the area of human resources, the cost of training measures should be based on the average national budget for the three best Member States.
Education and training should be adapted in a much more flexible way to meet the needs of the marketplace.
Both sides of industry need to reach agreements so that after training, job opportunities, including contract-type work, are available to the long term unemployed and the young.
As far as SMEs are concerned, we need to reduce the risk associated with the establishment of new companies and to set up a guarantee fund to provide loans from the European Investment Bank, which naturally includes strengthening the competitive position of the guarantors of most of the jobs and training places in Europe.
At regional level, we must set up local employment initiatives and introduce measures to promote territorial pacts.
I believe that the European Parliament has actively complied both with the Council decision on growth and employment and with the Amsterdam employment statement.
The ambitious goal which has been set, Mr President, namely to organize a summit with tangible results, has every chance of success, not least because of the enormous personal commitment and inspiration involved.
