Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, everything which has been said today is important and right.
There is no question about that.
Thanks for this milestone which Parliament has established today go to Mrs RothBehrendt and our good friend Mr Böge - they did outstanding work!
And we still got on with each other, as Mrs Roth-Behrendt emphasized this morning.
As a farmer, I am particularly pleased if I can somehow cope with a Berlin lawyer, because that means something!
But what conclusion can we draw from the story?
Mr President of the Commission, could such a sickness break out even today?
I say yes.
That is the starting point.
What do I not like about the whole story?
I like, for instance, the fact that we now have a strategy, that the Commission has moved, that Parliament has made enormous efforts.
I do not like the fact that we have no guarantee at all that in the 15 Member States things will be even approximately put into effect in a foreseeable period.
That is my problem.
When we say that no more animal meal must be fed to ruminants, that will succeed to some extent, because the farmers themselves would be stupid if they did it.
But when I hear that meat should be labelled so that the consumer knows where it comes from, I would give no guarantee that that will actually be put into effect in the 15 Member States.
I would also give no guarantee that the 15 Member States will put into effect the separating out of risk material, and above all that the heating regulations, which we believe to be right, will be observed.
Those are the bills of exchange Mr Böge spoke of this morning, and which the Council must redeem.
Really, 15 ministers of agriculture should be present at these decisive debates, not just one who has to act as the whipping boy for the rest.
He will go to his 14 colleagues this afternoon, and they may say that Boden is crazy, he has let them drop him in it!
That is the point.
We must make sure in future that we in the Community can rely on it being put into effect.
Then things will be all right, not otherwise.
