Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for thousands of years coins have been our conventional means of payment.
They are made of widely differing alloys, all sorts of different metals have been used.
This tradition will no doubt continue, even if competition from electronic money will have some influence on the volume required.
The Group of the European People's Party has submitted a number of proposals amending the SoltwedelSchäfer report.
As regards denominations, Mrs Soltwedel-Schäfer, you said not four, but six different coins would be manufactured.
We also believe that increasing size, diameter and weight, and of course the edges too, are primarily important for identifying these coins.
Short and tall, young and old, but also eleven million sight-impaired people will have to handle these coins in future.
So this is of vital importance.
We are also particularly concerned about forgery prevention, especially for the larger denomination coins, but also as regards recognition by coin-operated machines.
We know, and have taken account of this in our amendments, that is why a compound including nickel and copper is needed.
And we support that.
We are familiar with the reports and aware that we also have to differentiate between various allergenic elements in assessing the matter.
We feel it is important and the Group of the European People's Party has therefore proposed the national face, because the national symbol will give citizens a degree of confidence when it comes to the change.
In the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy we were very sorry that we were in a minority and the majority voted against the national face.
I am delighted that Alan Donnelly has now taken the lead here, has nailed these colours to his group mast and is introducing this.
We have said we would like to see six denominations.
But I think later on in the next phase we shall also have to think about a larger denomination, probably a 5-Euro piece, because the automated machinery industry, and especially industry that makes profits from slot-machine sales, will be entitled to enter the market with the possibility of larger denominations, to offer these and operate them with coins.
We are also keen on the idea of gold.
The 100 euro coin should in future - and Mr Stevens and Mrs Randzio-Plath have consistently repeated this - be made of gold.
I just feel that this follows an old tradition which might well be considered in future and also help to reduce high gold reserves.
I believe this has real value.
I trust our amendments will receive positive approval tomorrow and then we can look forward to the future with our new coins!
