Mr President, I am sorry to say 'I told you so' , but the Green Group in the European Parliament argued back in January that we could not vote for this regulation without an implementing regulation, because it would not then be sufficiently clear how it would be implemented.
If you buy a pig in a poke, as our colleagues here have done, then you should not be surprised if you end up with a mess.
If think it is shameful, Madam Commissioner, how the wishes of consumers have been trampled upon.
You have not made it clear today when labelling will be required.
You have again brought equivalence into the debate, which makes me worry that a little back door is being kept open to mislead consumers.
Nor have you said when there will be clear labelling for additives, flavourings and enzymes.
In the absence of such labelling, over 80 % of these foodstuffs will still be subject to secrecy, even if there is DNA analysis, and that cannot be in the interest of consumers.
We have to be open with them and offer them the option of making up their own minds for or against.
Mrs Schleicher also asked which products had been notified and approved under the novel foods regulation.
Madam Commissioner, in your reply you referred to the directive on deliberate release - but that was not the question.
May I therefore ask you once again which products have already been notified and which other products we can expect in the near future besides genetically modified maize and soya.
Nor did you reply to our question about positive labelling.
There are a great many industrial companies and traders who would like to meet consumers' desire for clear labelling, including labelling of products that have not been genetically modified.
Just when can we expect labelling criteria to be available for these products?
Now to my last point.
Mrs Cresson, you told us that there is no labelling regulation because the Member States opposed it.
I think that you should name the guilty men, the Member States who were against it, so that we in the European Parliament can cooperate with those Member States who are in favour to win over the ones continuing to block consumer protection and ride roughshod over health protection.
