Mr President, Mr President of the Council, even the fact that a snail's pace continues to be declared in European integration changes nothing of the positive image of the Luxembourg Presidency.
Because, as a German author says, progress is a snail, but it moves, and it moves forward.
It can therefore be said that in the field of tax cooperation, in the field of employment policy, there have really been the first steps towards letting citizens feel that they are better understood in what goes on here at the European decision level.
I think that in this Luxembourg Presidency it has become very clear that taking responsibility and leadership quality are just what a presidency needs.
That should also be emphasized in relation to economic and monetary union.
It is certainly right to emphasize, again and again, the date of the start of monetary union, 1 January 1999.
But at the same time the house tasks must be done.
Here I would like to say to the Council Presidency that this European Parliament has certainly always done the house tasks very quickly.
But it would be good if all Heads of State and of Government, and above all EU finance ministers, would use clear language about political responsibility in their testimonies, promises and messages.
Here I regret very much that the Luxembourg Presidency could not finish with two further positive results.
I mean here a positive decision about the presidency of the European central bank.
I think that the way in which the staffing discussion has been conducted is not good for the future credibility of the independence of the European central bank, and I hope that before the end of the year a solution may still be given in this area, so to speak as a Christmas present for monetary peace.
But I also think that it would be important, precisely in the field of monetary union, not just to find temporary solutions for the Euro-X Council, but also to make a clear statement of who has what responsibility for macro-economic interrelated decisions.
Here we can give not only the European finance ministers, the national central banks and the European central bank responsibility, but I would also emphasize very clearly from Parliament's point of view that there must be a triad between the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission, as far as responsibility for both economic and employment policy guidelines is concerned.
We really need concentration here.
We do not need different orientations, so that the Member States, which obviously remain responsible here for economic and employment policy, create added value, and anyway no coordination.
I therefore insist that the demand of this European Parliament for inter-institutional agreements in relation to the development of economic policy guidelines for the European Union and its Member States remains a current demand even for the next Council presidency.
Mr President of the Council, if you could contribute, even after the end of the Council presidency, to ensuring that the Economic and Finance Committee of the European Union does not argue only from monetary and financial points of view, but by its composition can also consider the economic policy arguments, that would certainly be an improvement which would be valued positively.
