Mr President.
I would have been most unhappy, indeed I would not have been able to sleep, had you not given me this opportunity to speak.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have here two agreements which I consider to be extremely important.
I am pleased that Commissioner Van den Broek is here, since we are not really discussing detailed transport policy issues in the narrower sense, but rather are dealing with transport infrastructures, both remote and close to home, which are adapted to the needs of the last enlargement process as well as to those of the next.
Last week I travelled to Slovenia to attend the joint sitting of the European and Slovenian Parliaments.
Being unable to catch the early flight from Vienna, due to my own travel schedule, I was obliged to fly from Vienna to Frankfurt and from Frankfurt on to Ljubljana, the train journey being so lengthy that I would have missed my evening rendez-vous in Ljubljana on Sunday evening.
This illustrates that complicated, protracted and not at all environmentally-friendly routes still have to be used to travel from one adjoining country to another.
It is therefore important, and this agreement lays the cornerstone in this respect, that we should extend the transport infrastructure in a way which meets the needs of today as well as those of tomorrow.
Slovenia, as a prime candidate for admission to the EU, is naturally important in this respect.
But even though that particular country's economy is doing well, we must extend the transport infrastructure to promote the economic structure of Slovenia, which is in need of reform.
There is not much to say on the subject.
An extension of the transport infrastructure will naturally be one of the elements of EU partnership.
May I also say that we asked the Slovenians to focus on developing links to Croatia, and that this should not be forgotten.
The second agreement concerns the FYROM, or Macedonia.
Here the situation is naturally different, since EU entry will take much much longer in this case.
Nevertheless, I believe it to be important, particularly in the interests of Greece, that the transport infrastructure - both rail as well as road -should be extended accordingly, since Greece's link with the rest of Europe will, if I can put it this way, primarily be through the FYROM, and everything which helps improve this connection will benefit not only the FYROM but also the European Union as a whole.
In this sense, Mr President, and in spite of the lack of available information, I would recommend that we approve both reports for transport policy as well as foreign policy reasons.
