Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Union is still a long way from being a political union.
On the other hand, as a European Community it is most certainly a legal community, and one which has developed an astonishing dynamic over the decades it has existed.
The Alber report is a kind of summary of this dynamic.
Mr Alber, it is a matter of some personal satisfaction for me that this outcome has been possible because of an initiative by the European Parliament, or rather of its Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which in June 1995 held a symposium on the relationship of Community law to international law and to the constitutional law of the Member States respectively.
This initiative and the discussions which followed it resulted in the clarification presented in this report, although this clarification is far from being common knowledge or a commonly accepted feature of jurisdiction in the Member States.
The first point of clarification, which defines all the others, is the primacy of Community law as opposed to national law.
This primacy is not some theory propounded by extravagant Eurocrats, but is a guaranteed matter of legal fact, for the simple reason that in an area without internal borders, the area of the four freedoms, there is no competing law nor can there be as long as observance of the principle of subsidiarity guarantees national powers, which are at a totally different level.
Connected with this is the fact that the freedom of movement of persons has for a long time not just been seen as a commercial activity, but rather, as in the Bosman Judgement, as a personal right and as an expression of the liberty of the citizens of the Union.
This should be sufficient cause for this Parliament to support the rapporteur in his demands for high-level and extensive protection of fundamental rights and accordingly for a legal personality for the European Union, which is in a position to support this protection of fundamental rights at international level and to defend it.
Whilst expressing my thanks for this handsome and encouraging report, I would like to offer my very best wishes for the responsible position which its draftsman will in future hold as Advocate-General of the European Court of Justice.
