Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the impending enlargement presents the European Union with its most important challenge since its foundation.
It thereby fulfils its central goal, to create a united Europe and can simultaneously learn the lessons from both recent history and from the global challenges of our age, that is the danger of warlike disputes, ecological destruction, dealing with poverty and discrimination by means of the ever closer economic and political integration of Europe.
The Union is condemned to be successful.
Mistakes in the enlargement process would not only obstruct development in central and eastern Europe but also expose the existing structure to a credibility crisis of considerable proportions, and, what is more, in the matter of financial requirements.
We can learn this lesson from the German unification process.
Let us remember for example, the words of Kurt Biedenkopf from the year 1990: nobody will have less, but everybody will give up some of their future growth in prosperity.
This policy of the German government lodged in the consciousness of the people as painful arrogance towards Germany's economic power, as a missed chance for reforms and consequently as the absence of any visionary consideration.
This policy was made at the expense of future generations, has contributed to considerable new gulfs between the people of West and East Germany and shares responsibility for the barrier to reform in Germany which is bewailed on all sides by our partners in Europe.
Let us not repeat the same mistakes at the European level.
Let us learn from the German unification process.
Let us be honest in our analysis and more logical in our proposals.
The enormous transformation processes created under difficult conditions by our neighbours in central and eastern Europe since the historic turning point of 1989 should not be answered by a simple call for protection of rights of possession on our part.
On this premise the financial section of Agenda 2000 must be regarded as a failed attempts as a pre-entry strategy.
Even worse: basically the newcomers are themselves financing a considerable part of the eastward enlargement.
The built-in margin corresponds exactly to the sum of their own resources which those countries which have joined in the Commission's model should contribute to the budget from the year 2002.
That is however a very difficult venture, if one considers that in the event of fairly slight deviations from the planned growth assumed by the Commission in the gross national product amounting to 2.5 % there will be bottlenecks.
With all due respect to the Commission's optimism, the average growth in the last eight years has been only 1.8 %!
A little more conservatism in the calculations would not have gone amiss.
On the other hand conservatism in the worst sense has spread in the meagre proposals for reforms of the agricultural and structural policy.
Basically the Commission is not developing any agricultural policy at all for the applicant states, merely relying on the beneficial effects of the world market and thus accepting to some extent a second class membership in the EU, whereas the present recipients of agricultural subsidies remain to a large extent unscathed.
Any considerations with regard to freezing agricultural subsidies, the step by step transition to cofinancing, the more rapid removal of export subsidies and the diversion of the agricultural industry to regional market structures, for which there are actually good conditions in central and eastern Europe, are not even thought about.
In the structural sphere the same is happening.
The cohesion fund is to remain untouched, but how can that be justified to the new Member States, who after all also want to become members of the single currency?
It would be logical either to extend the fund to those countries which in the foreseeable future will meet the criteria for monetary union or to cancel it completely as we recommend.
The tortuous efforts towards the necessary concentration of resources remain stuck in the blocks.
What is even worse is the fact that after the first planned wave of entries the actual new Member States are to participate by up to 28 % in the structural funds, whereas the remaining candidates will receive only ECU 3 billion.
To put it more clearly: the Commission has no concept of the entire enlargement; in fact it does not even have a concept of a second round of enlargement, and hence it simply divides the central and eastern European countries from one another.
Instead of this the Commission should, particularly in the financial section of Agenda, with no ifs and buts, have followed the starting line model.
Irrespective of when a country joins, all candidates must have the same access to net transfers in the context of structural policies, as far as their capacity for absorption and cofinancing allows.
It is precisely this separation of the negotiating level from the budgetary level which fulfils the rule of equal treatment so unyieldingly demanded by the countries of central and eastern Europe.
