Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, I would like to join the ranks of those who have congratulated the past Presidency on its successful activity in many areas.
In the area of employment policy, it must be measured against what happened before.
I would like to concentrate on some points of external policy: the questions of Turkey, the Near East and - if there is still time - Yugoslavia or former Yugoslavia.
The President of the Council made intensive efforts to come to an agreement with Turkey about how this important process of rapprochement between the European Union and Turkey can happen.
The President of the Council found some public words which can be called undiplomatic or honest, depending on how one sees things.
I am not so critical or sceptical about it, because I believe that we have entered a phase in which we must talk openly and honestly to Turkey.
If there are reservations - reservations with good reasons - they should be expressed openly.
I have spoken critically, even in this Chamber, against a decision or recommendation of Christian Democratic parties about the relationship with Turkey, because of the differences of religion.
But as far as the differences in questions of human rights are concerned, or differences in questions of how one relates to one's neighbours and starts conflicts or not, there are serious differences which must be identified beyond the political forces in this Chamber, but at the same time the firm will to enter discussions with Turkey.
I would like to say clearly once again, even to Turkey, that what happened in Luxembourg is not closing the door but opening it.
But even to friends, one must be critical where critical comments are appropriate.
What matters now is to see whether something can be achieved with specific agreements.
As far as the Near East is concerned, you were also very active.
I had the opportunity to be in Israel, Palestine, Jordan, Syria almost in the footsteps of the Council Presidency.
I saw that very good approaches were disseminated here.
We see that the Arab world demands much more from Europe than we can give at this time.
Thank God, no longer against the USA, but altogether in cooperation, always as a strong - sometimes quite independent - partner, but a great deal happened here too.
That also applies to Yugoslavia.
I hope that we can make more progress under the British Presidency, based on your preparation.
We must make it clear that we stand by Dayton, that we insist that war crimes must be punished, that there must be true peace and cooperation.
Finally, my congratulations again on the Luxembourg Presidency.
As has already been mentioned, Austria will likewise have the Presidency in the second half of 1998.
We are a small country like Luxembourg.
But one thing is exemplary, first in Luxembourg, second in Austria: low unemployment.
I hope that the European Union will soon reach the average of the Luxembourg and Austrian unemployment levels.
