Mr President, there is no doubt that South-East Asia is a booming region, as Mr Hindley has just said.
From which it follows that the 1980 agreement between the European Union and the ASEAN states should continue.
But just what is booming at present?
Crashes and anxiety - so that it is starting to look like Mexico a couple of years ago.
In Thailand the baht is plunging, and in Kalimantan, Sumatra and Celebes the forests have been burning for weeks.
In Burma, Cambodia, East Timor and many other regions there are human rights violations going back years in some cases.
What can we conclude from this?
Our relations cannot just carry on as they are.
We cannot simply liberalize trade or pursue the liberalization of investment according in line with the WTO model.
I believe that instead we need to consider whether it would not be sensible, as a means of stabilizing financial markets, to introduce something like the Tobin Tax.
Malaysia's premier was right when he told the IMF-World Bank Conference in Hong Kong a few days ago that currency speculation is immoral and demanded that it should be prohibited.
My second point is that if we conclude a treaty, it must of course cover human rights.
The EU cannot just fiddle around with protocols on a matter like this.
A basic requirement for new treaties, given our own democratic standpoint, has to be the participation of the European Parliament.
So we do not need any protocols, but a new third generation agreement.
That is why we - and many other colleagues - are asking Portugal to give up their veto on East Timor.
This does not mean that we condone the human rights violations there, no, it signals the fact that this is a European Union problem and not just one for Portugal.
The other European countries are just as involved, and it is a legacy from the colonial era.
Maybe we will even decide to apply something like a European Union protection order to the East Timor region, out of a sense of historical responsibility; maybe it can even be taken out of the treaties.
My third point is that the sustainable economy must have the utmost priority.
The economy must not be further liberalised, it needs to be restructured.
It is not a question of removing constraints, but about banning products manufactured in conditions that involve squandering resources or infringing human rights.
To do this we need commitments to protection, and I believe that if we had had these, the forest fires would not have happened.
I have a question for the Commissioner: the European Union or its Commission has supported early warning systems in Sumatra.
Why did they not work?
What happened to the natives in these fires?
Were they burnt to death?
Are these fires possibly a form of liberalisation, to allow rice to be planted there in the near future, to complete the Transmigrasi project and perhaps to replace virgin jungle with plantations soon?
What are we doing to preserve the environment?
What are we doing to conserve resources and to preserve the knowledge, the richness of the peoples in this region and in the forests?
Lastly, a word about the treaties.
If we conclude new treaties and Burma is included, at present we can only, as many others have said before, support the position of Great Britain, who are pursuing a policy of not granting Burma a visa in relation to ASEAN 1998.
I believe that we should not include a state like this in the expansion process.
Of course, expansion is a matter for ASEAN, but we need to have our own ideas about it.
Are we to accept what ASEAN presents to us or not?
If we cannot accept this on human rights or economic grounds, then we should not do that either, but instead make our position clear.
