Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with this proposal for a common measure on the temporary protection of refugees the Commission has for the first time - Mr Wiebenga also mentioned this at the end - taken the initiative for a common measure, where the European Parliament was consulted before the Council of Ministers had made its final decision.
My group and I welcome this procedure and presume that this will be the rule in future.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for which I was the draftsman, has given no opinion on this report, because when my opinion was presented several of my amendments could not be agreed, with the result that I was no longer able to support the opinion.
The EU common policy on refugees is stagnant, even though the policy on asylum-seekers is seen as one of the most important areas of cooperation.
The proposal for this common measure must be regarded, therefore, as a long-awaited initiative to end the standstill.
The parliamentary report will show that an asylum policy at EU level does not have to mean an extension of fortress Europe, but can also be a constructive development of existing standards.
In this way, this measure must be viewed as a framework for a unified procedure in the case of a massive influx of refugees into the European Union.
A massive influx means that an individual examination of refugee status in accordance with the Geneva Convention is no longer possible.
This measure is in no way concerned with redefining the term refugee, or with creating new standards in the sense of international refugee protection.
On the contrary, it seeks to establish a common procedure, so as to allow Member States to have in an emergency the fastest and most unified procedure possible.
That was also the aim of the rapporteur, and one he always kept in mind.
The following points of criticism do, however, remain: firstly, it seems to me to be very problematical to decide who has really heavy burdens to bear in every case.
Mr Wiebenga pointed this out in his speech.
Of course, Germany has accepted 320, 000 refugees.
In absolute terms that is the highest number.
If one considers, however, that Sweden has accepted 60, 000 refugees, that is very much more when compared to total populations.
This country has, therefore, taken on very heavy burdens.
How are offset payments to be made, therefore?
The suggestion of distributing refugees numerically equally throughout the EU means for them, following the shock of expulsion, a second traumatic experience.
At the same time the value of equal distribution is doubtful, as I have said.
Also to be viewed in this light is the suggestion by the Commission that refugees might be accommodated in their country of origin.
Does one really intend that people who have arrived at Europe's gates by land and sea should then be sent back to the places from which they have managed to escape with their bare lives?
Unclarified also is the question of how refugees should enter the EU and how they should be received there.
The common measure should after all lead, as I have said, to the speedy and unbureaucratic treatment of refugees.
Visa limitation and the use of the basic regulation on third countries stand in the way of this, however, and must be de-activated in this case.
For this reason it is also necessary for refugees to be kept informed in their own languages and in the language of the receiving country, so that they can understand their rights, including third party rights.
Finally, I should like to mention an amendment motion concerning unaccompanied minors.
It must be made clear that they are guaranteed the use of all rights open to them.
