Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Weiler's report provides an accurate survey of the fundamental aspects of European social security for the future, and also puts them into perspective.
Now it is up to the Commission to translate these clear guidelines into action.
I do not intend to go into all the details again now, but I just want to discuss one basic obstacle still hindering social security in Europe.
What I mean is the idea that we are attempting to create a uniform European social security system.
The founding fathers and mothers cherished that idea, but I think it is mistaken and we should turn our back on it.
Even if we have a uniform internal market, we still have living conditions that differ not just in level, but also in customs and expectations, so we also have different social security traditions, different balances of power and arrangements between unions and management - the social partners.
These all make up historical compromises struck in the Member States, which cannot easily be broken.
But that does not mean it will be impossible to create a Europe with a common social security.
We need to revise our thinking, we need to work towards common and binding objectives.
To put it simply, what is involved is insuring everyone who lives and works in Europe against occupational risks - age, illness, unemployment and deskilling.
We are also talking about ensuring that no-one who lives and works in Europe is forced into poverty and social exclusion relative to the standard of living in the Member States and regions in question.
Those are two quite simple objectives.
By thinking in these simple terms we can begin to identify mechanisms which can be used by various Member States, in various situations and with various different approaches, to work towards protection.
By which I do not mean protection at a practical level, but the protection of interests, and working towards convergence in safeguarding against these risks and guaranteeing real citizens' rights for all the citizens of Europe in the internal market - including those with employee status.
It is high time this was done, given that attempts are repeatedly being made to undermine precisely these achievements in citizens' rights for those in employment.
