Mr President, the report by our group leader, Mr Martens, who has the constant support for the Group of the European People's Party, is the mirror image of our years of experience in the Europe Parliament of development co-operation, not only in the Committee on Development and Cooperation, but also in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly.
This report, which has wide-ranging consequences, is an expression of the consensus in the European Parliament, and I therefore ask Commissioner Pinheiro to include the main elements of it in the next mandate proposal for talks with the ACP countries.
We are very interested in that.
Let me extract three key elements of Mr Martens' report.
Firstly, we want to see a partnership - preferably with the democracies amongst the ACP countries and with those countries that have resolutely and irrevocably taken the path to democracy, constitutional government and human rights, and who are successfully creating it by positive efforts in Government and Parliament.
It is inconceivable to us that this cooperation should stretch to include corrupt dictators.
These dictators should not even play a further role now in the negotiation of a new agreement.
Secondly, the African continent should be the main objective of our mutual development work.
The policy of good neighbourliness, the geographic proximity of Africa, the historic responsibility of European countries, but also the only modest achievements of our partnership, all are a special challenge for the improvement of our instruments and for the strengthening of a broadly based cooperation.
Africa is the most backward continent in the world in terms of the development of its economy, society and democratic structures.
A new impetus to our relationship is therefore essential.
Thirdly, having an ACP development policy as part of the global development strategy means that we must also check our instruments for cooperation with Caribbean and Pacific countries.
The poorest developing countries, who are neighbours of our partners in the Caribbean and Pacific, must also be able to participate in permanent economic and social development.
We ask the Commission to consider whether a corresponding framing of the general preferences could not be undertaken on behalf of those poorest developing nations in Central and South America and Southeast Asia who are neighbours of our Caribbean and Pacific partners.
Or perhaps the European Union could create additional instruments, within the framework of existing resources, which could reach beyond the geographic base of the Lomé Convention?
This question - and I would expressly address you with it, Commissioner Pinheiro - should be investigated in detail during the preparation of the mandate for EU-ACP talks.
