Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, gentlemen from Luxembourg, the Luxembourg summit demanded honesty, credibility and responsible politics.
The dealings with Turkey were governed by ambiguity and deviousness, one-sidedness and exclusion.
Enlargement raises the question of how an active democratization process can be encouraged through the framework of the European Union.
Such a dynamic would be a service to the people in Turkey who fight for democracy, human rights and the political solution of the Kurdish question.
But the result of Luxembourg is a disservice, not a service, and will encourage precisely those forces in Turkey which are anti-European, anti-democratic and fundamentalist.
After Luxembourg, Turkey is faced with the fact that there is no prospect of accession.
That should have been said clearly.
Everything else is diplomatic eyewash.
And this is the way history goes on, the history of broken promises and treaties.
Since 1963, it has always been the European Union which has broken parts of the Ankara Agreement.
Turkey has been waiting for 34 years.
In Luxembourg, it was shunted into a siding.
Mr Juncker says that he will not sit down to negotiate with torturers.
That is a laudably consistent attitude for an EU President.
Consistent?
Then for God's sake why do not you immediately block the customs union with Turkey, which the Council and Commission forced through come hell or high water?
Why is NATO membership not suspended?
Why do EU Member States, above all the Federal Republic of Germany, supply weapons to Turkey?
Why are refugees sent back to Turkey, if torture is going on there?
The fact is that the true interest in Turkey is a geostrategic, political and above all economic self-interest.
The question of human rights is forgotten until it suits the European Union politically.
The role of Turkey is that of auxiliary policeman and aircraft-carrier, and Mr Clinton's raised index finger means nothing else.
I would really like to ask you, Mr Juncker, to explain to me the difference between Slovakia and Turkey as far as democracy and human rights are concerned.
What is the difference?
Is not the true background to the exclusion of Turkey the question of the identity the European Union claims?
The issue of the Christian Occident versus the Islamic orient; religion as the new element which builds entirely new walls.
Is that not in turn the background for an almost paranoid, racist idea of 60 million Turks sitting on packed suitcases.
Above all, the implications of Luxembourg affect 3 million people of Turkish origin among us, and in the Year against Racism they must be feeling like third-class people.
That is a wrong and irresponsible signal.
In spite of all that, Madam President, and not just because of Christmas, thanks for a very committed and very unpretentious Council presidency!
