Mr President, Mr Commissioner, shutting our eyes is not going to achieve anything.
We have here a serious structural problem in the administration of the programme by the Commission.
The background, or rather the nub, of the report, as has been said, is that the Commission has never really succeeded in producing an assessment system for Phare, which allows the political effects of the programme to be evaluated.
There is no reliable system for supervising individual activities and no clear responsibilities for evaluation, which, as we know, has always been done partly by the Commission and lies partly with subordinate bodies.
Lack of transparency has naturally given rise to the suspicion that not all has been well with the award of contracts, and it was clearly the case, at least in the early stages, that certain institutions in the west managed to line their nests with a certain amount of support or, shall we say, credulity in the recipient countries.
Whether the results of the services always met the expectations of the countries concerned I would doubt.
Many of the appraisals landed up in the drawer with the costs borne by the taxpayer.
Despite the criticism though, we need the programme more than ever before to support the entry of the central and eastern European countries.
This doesn't mean we should cast doubt on decentralization of implementation if we want our partners in central and eastern Europe to have equal rights.
Decentralization must go hand in hand with proper supervision, closer financial involvement of recipient countries and better administrative preparation in these countries for their responsibilities, and I believe this was not properly appreciated.
But we also need a new method of assessing the results on the basis of clearly defined political goals.
As far as suspicion of nepotism is concerned, I can think of a number of specific ways of involving new institutions and ensuring wide participation.
Why is this not done by means of regular general calls for interest so as to broaden the applicant chain?
Why does the project management not call more often on new providers instead of the same ones every time?
It would also be important for the Member States themselves, who sit on the Phare management committee, to publicize the programme at home.
I hope this shot across the bows may help to ensure a better start for implementation of the Meda programme and that we shall avoid problems like this in future.
