Mr President, Madam Commissioner, we have put these oral questions to you today because we think that the Parliament needs to be provided with comprehensive information on genetically modified foodstuffs at an early stage, and certainly at an earlier point than is usually the case.
The fact that you were unable to arrange for the Regulation to come into force on 1 November because the provisions required for implementation were not available, and that you therefore had to delay this until February, was bad not only for consumers in Europe, but also for European industry.
In the case of foodstuffs to be distributed within the internal market, uniform regulations about labelling as a whole are needed before these foodstuffs are produced.
This is necessary both for industry and for consumer protection.
I fail to understand why this has taken so long, given that the novel foods regulation was finalized in the Conciliation Committee over a year ago, that it has been in force since May and that it has been clear since then that transitional arrangements would have to be made for maize and soya.
I would also suggest that we should consider now, before the new agreement between the institutions comes into force in early summer next year, whether the Parliament could be given information earlier and more promptly, so that it does not have to go to great lengths to have proposals drawn up for discussion in the Commission's Standing Committee on Foodstuffs.
What I would like you to tell me, since you are responsible for science and for the Joint Research Centre, is the following: what progress has been made on work to develop an analysis method that can be used throughout the Union to test for genetic modification of DNA, and to what extent is the Joint Research Centre involved with this work, given that it has already developed analysis methods for a whole string of food products using ring tests, thus ensuring uniformity within the Union, rather than leaving things to chance?
I do not think that we can just leave this decision to industry alone.
In this connection, I would like to ask you another question, Madam Commissioner.
Would it not be more meaningful, instead of introducing a scheme whereby a product can be marked 'may contain genetically modified ingredients' , to determine a threshold value and stipulate that the labelling 'genetically modified foodstuff' or 'non genetically modified foodstuff' can only be used above that threshold?
In Austria we had a case of contamination.
It is particularly easy for soya and maize transported in railway wagons to be contaminated, even it is only by 1 %, so it is better to say that there is a threshold value than to label something with 'may contain' and make consumers uncertain.
Madam Commissioner, I think all these questions will have to be answered very quickly if we really want the arrangements to be adopted by all Member States in February and implemented by industry then.
It is high time that a proposal to this effect was brought forward covering everything that the consumer needs to know and everything that industry needs for producing and labelling its products.
