Mr President, I do not think there is anything better than when, once husband and children are out of the house, one can settle down quietly at the breakfast table with a cigarette, a cup of coffee and the newspaper, and at last read the paper in peace.
I should like to begin with that.
The new technologies and new media have had positive effects on the information media.
We should on no account forget the risk, however, that the print media could be increasingly pushed aside and dominated by modern media.
It is sufficient to cast a glance at the relevant statistics already mentioned by some supporters, to see that there is the same tendency in Europe as in the United States, where the printed word is sold less and less, and vital advertising income recedes accordingly.
The European Union should pay most attention to supporting a versatile information service, that is, one in which critical comment takes precedence over sensationalism and is not excluded from the less well educated and poorer elements of society.
For this daily newspapers as well as specialist newspapers, specialist weeklies and local papers play a most important role towards pluralism, analysis of news and above all depth of knowledge.
With reference to the resolution in Mrs Daskalaki's report, we Greens would principally like to stress how important a non-homologated and homogenised news world is.
These efforts should support a deeper critical view of events, as well as secure the rights of minorities, and above all inform about minorities and other opinions.
Here I mean the rights of minorities to produce their own information media and also to broadcast ideas that run counter to the mainstream.
To end with I should like to introduce a current matter.
Parliament has once more got into bad odour because of snapshot interviews on Dutch television and the German ARD.
A long, in-depth article is one thing, even if it is in the British Sun; but two seconds with two delegates who allegedly signed on at 9.00 a.m. and were in their cars at 9.05 a.m. is quite another.
I think it is incredible when even in my own group Members jump on this sort of bandwagon.
We must be particularly careful in this House to see that Parliament is protected, and that not only are such matters are reported, but also that we take them seriously.
