Mr President, these forest fires in Malaysia and Indonesia are not a natural catastrophe.
They are the result of a particular method of agriculture, and they occur a the expense of nature.
A large part of the ecological lungs is being destroyed, but also people who live in the forests, indigenous races, are being killed and destroyed.
According to information from the Indonesian Forestry Minister 80 % of the current fires originated on plantations belonging to the major timber companies.
The largest plantations belong to companies such as Finantara Intiga, a joint venture by two Indonesian companies and the Finnish concern ENZO FINLAND.
Only a short while ago UPM-Kymmene Finland and the Asian group APRIL, operating from Singapore, agreed on the establishment of a joint company for the manufacture of paper.
The new concern is the largest producer of high-grade paper in Europe.
In Asia, paper mills in Sumatra, Indonesia and China will produce about two million tonnes of paper and cellulose.
Nordland Paper in Germany also belongs to UPM-Kymmene, and is involved in the Eurasian deal.
European corporate interests are contributing to the formation of plantations out of primeval forests in Indonesia.
To do this the areas concerned are frequently burned off.
In addition, the establishment of plantations endangers the existence of indigenous peoples in the region, whose original land is often commandeered, and who thus lose their economic base.
In the resolution of the European Parliament it says that indigenous residents in the Indonesian interior are hardest hit by the forest fires, because their access to unpolluted water is limited.
Furthermore, the indigenous population of West Papua is suffering acute food shortages caused by a combination of the current drought and forest fires.
Some 500 people have died of starvation so far.
UN sources estimate that at least 90, 000 people will be affected by food shortages.
The forest fires in Kalimantan also affect worst the indigenous peoples there, as their cultural and economic existence depends upon the maintenance of forest resources.
Scientists on the spot believe that plantations exclusively of fastgrowing trees with short harvesting periods will contribute to a drying out of the forests.
