Madam Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, I too would like to join the ranks of those offering their thanks for the successes achieved under this Council presidency.
Formally, both in substance and as regards the subject matter, we have come a long way.
Thank you for that!
Thanks too for giving the citizens of Europe an important political signal by demonstrating to them that the Community-wide fight against crime is a major undertaking in the interest of the citizens of the European Union as a whole.
Significant gains can only follow.
I would like to ask you, therefore, to pass on to the next presidency the experiences you have gained, say in the area of ratification procedure.
A lot has been agreed between the Member States and just as much has still to be implemented.
I would ask you, therefore, to set all possible wheels in motion, while you are still President, so that agencies like Europol can be used as quickly as possible to combat international crime.
There is still some laxity here, but I refer to the Dublin Convention and many other arrangements where pending ratification procedures ultimately prevent our aspirations being realized.
My second request concerns cooperation in the area of justice.
Here, too, you have made decisive first steps, for instance by ensuring that we now have the opportunity to use liaison magistrates.
However, this can only be a first step in the direction of legal harmonization and a common area of jurisdiction.
In this area, too, I would ask you to do all you can to allow Europe to acquire a system of effective criminal prosecution beyond its frontiers.
My third point is that, in the area of asylum policy, we are going to be stretched by the challenge of expanding the Schengen area.
After enlarging the European Union overall, leverage will no longer be at the external frontiers, and an improved right of asylum can only lead to an improvement in the situation.
So there are many tasks still to embark upon.
Nevertheless, our heartfelt thanks for your presidency!
