Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Schultz has correctly drawn attention to the fact that organized crime has a relatively easy time of it.
It has money available in almost unlimited quantities, uses it for the purchase of the most up-to-date means of communication which the police can only dream of, purchases and trains people with it, has the most modern and most effective logistics and one huge, decisive advantage: it does not have to abide by our laws.
All these advantages have led to the fact that organized crime in our society and our state is spreading and will finally undermine our society.
I have enquired of experts concerned with combatting crime, and they have made it clear that organized crime already has a hand in almost one third of all criminal statistics.
It is high time, therefore, that effective measures were taken.
Thus our thanks go out to everyone who wants to proceed with more intensive measures for cooperation, beyond the demands of national interests, to improve the lot of Europe's citizens.
In particular our thanks are due to the rapporteurs, led by Mrs Cederschiöld with her very comprehensive report and the highly important reports on legal cooperation by Mr Bontempi and Mr Orlando.
Whilst we have been successful in achieving some success in police cooperation - I am thinking of Europol and Schengen - with judicial cooperation we are at the very beginning.
It will be necessary here for us to set up additional main aims for measures, as the police will only be as effective as we are successful in establishing a common legal framework, not just for detection, but obviously also within the context of common elements of the criminal code.
On behalf of my group, therefore, I assess as most valuable the network proposed by Mr Bontempi, in which the judiciary and experts can be brought together to acquire the same level of knowledge, to learn a joint legal tradition, as the first steps towards that unification of the legal systems which will now be possible following the establishment of new elements of the criminal code.
It is essential, however, that this criminal code be established to cover the field of organized crime and complicity in organized crime, otherwise we shall remain unsuccessful in the battle against it.
As elected representatives of the people we are responsible for seeing that all possible measures are taken, because our citizens do not like criminals to be enjoying freedom of action, when Europe's freedoms do not lead to more security for the citizen himself.
I appeal to the Council, therefore, to act on all these measures, and I know that in the capable hands of Mr Fischbach and his colleagues this cooperation will be intensively developed.
