Mr President.
Mr, Martens has presented here a report which will find the support of a broad majority, simply because he has also provided for a broad dialogue between the political Parties.
That is similar to what was done earlier by Mr Pinheiro, who visited the capitals of Member States to form a view on the continuation of the Parity Meeting, the relationship between the ACP and the EU.
It is as a result of this dialogue that we on the European side can arrive at a clear position.
What is missing, in my view, is a completely clear declaration by the ACP side on what their concepts are, and what their demands are.
We can but say that this was a special programme.
It should also remain special programme.
This concerns the poorest of the poor and it is, therefore, a basic requirement that we on the European side also have a concept of a programme where...
(The President interrupted the speaker.)
I do not think we should operate a policy of divide and rule, dividing the future of the ACP into A, C and P. Just because they are the poorest countries they must be able to stand together opposite us and maintain a dialogue line representing the south.
The instruments we had formerly, such as Stabex for price stabilization, were important ones in enabling emergence from the dependence of colonialism.
In view of the experience we have gathered, however, they must be revised, because they often continued to support a monoculture.
Scientists have produced models for us here, and I think we should put them to use.
From a development policy standpoint it is not acceptable to believe, as Mr Fassa has said, that these countries can develop within a WTO framework and keep pace with industrialized nations or the World market.
Experience contradicts that.
We need protection for the poorer countries so that they can first catch up in development.
What is still missing is the inclusion of women in development.
In these countries they are often the main people who contribute to the development process.
What we need above all - and for me this was not sufficiently emphasized in Mr Martens' report - is the Parity Conference.
The history of relationships is a history of partnership, and we must maintain this partnership.
For this reason we need a place for political dialogue, for mutual discussion.
That was the special thing about the Lomé Convention, and we should advocate it in the future.
In short, we need a fifth agreement in principle, so that this story can be continued towards development, and not towards constriction within industrialization; so that structures change; so that we also obtain the budget here; so that this Parliament participates in the whole process; and above all, so that changes occur in these countries, so that a democratic development like that of the European Union can take place, and so that human rights are respected.
Those must be the main essentials of the new agreement.
Mr Martens has described that, so we shall support this report.
