Madam President, five years ago the world's governments undertook to ensure that the quantities of greenhouse gases present in the atmosphere would be reduced to an acceptable level for our climatic system.
In his impressive speech in November, and in his contribution of today, Mr Linkohr has underlined the fact that the issues tabled at Kyoto have fallen well short of this ambitious objective.
If we assume that in the long term each citizen on the planet should produce equal amounts of CO2 , then we in the industrialised countries naturally have to achieve a much more substantial reduction than all the proposals discussed at Kyoto.
The figure in question should in fact be less than two tonnes per capita.
This becomes all too evident when one realises that a citizen in Tanzania only emits about one hundredth of the amount of greenhouse gases produced per head of the population in some of the industrialised countries.
Everything discussed at Kyoto was therefore of modest proportions.
However, I believe that politics is the art of the feasible and for this reason we were obliged to make compromises.
The difference involved is therefore only a gradual one - whether we had succeeded in getting the EU's plan fully adopted, or whether we stick with the current compromise.
There is absolutely no reason for defeatism because the EU's position did not win the day.
On the other hand, it is a matter of regret that there were a number of exceptions to the general agreement.
I would like to congratulate the Commission and the negotiators for having taken such a strong leading role.
However, some criticism is also appropriate.
This particularly concerns the fact that Australia and Iceland may be allowed to increase their emission levels.
This is partly the fault of the European Union because, for various reasons, we have allowed some Member States within the EU to increase their emissions in the coming years.
It is therefore hardly surprising that other industrialised nations will demand similar concessions for themselves.
These countries, both inside the EU as well as outside, produce up to 50 times more greenhouse gases than Tanzania and many other developing countries, for example.
My own country has always been at the forefront of the environmental issue, but here too I can be self-critical.
In recent years Germany has failed to make decisive cuts in environmental emissions in the west of the country.
German unity was a piece of good fortune, especially in political terms.
But German unity was also a success for the environment, since it allowed inefficient industrial installations to be replaced by efficient plant.
Unfortunately, this is a principle which cannot necessarily be imitated by other Member States.
The situation in Germany was a special one.
We therefore have a credibility problem, both inside Germany as well as within the EU, since even the latter has failed to reach its self-imposed targets with the resources currently available.
The post-Kyoto era must therefore be a time for credible action.
We must introduce a more efficient energy policy and provide real support for climate-friendly energy forms.
I believe that we will then also have a better chance of getting further reductions adopted during future negotiations, quite apart from the fact that there are of course many reasons other than environmental ones, for us to be economical in our use of energy - and more particularly in our use of fossil fuels - since these are finite resources, and what is more, they are far too good for burning, seeing that they constitute important raw materials for many processes.
We therefore have many reasons for getting down to the job at hand.
