Mr President, this report makes an honest attempt to tackle the issues, but in very traditional areas, and it raises a few questions of principle that I would like to deal with.
Firstly, the report says that there should be no adverse social consequences.
Of course, no-one wants that!
But we have to be honest and admit that a reorganization of our social structures and of our social security systems is unavoidable, and there is a danger that this will involve some cuts.
My second point is that in the context of pension provision, the report says that there is little chance of a change from the adjustable contribution system to the formation of capital coverage system.
If it happened at all, it would take a very long time, I know that much.
However, it has to be said quite unambiguously that private provision will play a very central role in pension provision in the future.
My third point is about the employment summit in Luxembourg.
The President of the Council, Mr Juncker, always stresses that this will not be a deregulation summit.
Fine, it would really be too little to have just that.
But I do hope at least that one subject dealt with by this employment summit will be the need to change our economic and labour law structures and make them more flexible.
In two areas the report includes hints about the future, one case being where it touches upon environmental tax reform, implying a shift of taxation away from employment and towards energy, consumption, etcetera.
However, it only suggests investigating this.
That is absolutely not enough as far as I am concerned!
We know that this is one of the forward-looking instruments.
We need to summon up the political will actually to get on with it.
The report quotes the Commission's 1995 report on the future of social welfare, which questions the direct link between the payments made by social security contributors and the covering of risk.
I think that is important.
I believe that we should seriously contemplate a basic level of provision, as there is ever less work, and the gap between those who have work and those who do not is getting greater.
However, social solidarity should also extend to people who have not made sufficient contributions to the social security system through paid work.
