Mr President, Sir Leon Brittan, Minister, I have heard of the success you have had in recent times, and it is impressive.
Indeed, we cannot claim that there was too little on the new transatlantic agenda, rather we can assume there was too much.
Perhaps that is one of the problems.
The sweep of political and economic issues really does extend from trade disputes, via the question of how we are to deal with extra-territorial legislation, to a whole range of political questions: What are we doing in the Ukraine?
What are we doing in the Baltic?
What are we doing in the Middle East?
How can we bring our citizens together in future, and how can they reasonably participate in this new transatlantic agenda which politicians and economists have got off the ground?
All this is very sensible.
However, I believe we have to shoulder a special political responsibility, and by this I am referring now to the three institutions that are active on the side of the European Union.
I believe we need to add two things to the overall range of issues just mentioned on the political and economic agenda, and we should do this in the next half year.
Firstly, we should bring people more into the dialogue we are conducting.
We have conceived four dialogues: one for the citizens, one for the small and medium-size companies, one for the flagship generally, namely the Transatlantic Business Dialogue, and one dialogue for the workers and trade unions.
We know we have considerable problems apart from in the area of the Transatlantic Business Dialogue.
We need to do something here; this is part of the responsibility we need to assume, and we need to do it together.
The second thing we must do, and this will not be any less dramatic: we need to include ourselves as parliamentarians in this form of the work.
It will not do that we have a political and economic agenda, but not a parliamentary one.
We need to ensure that we are included in future in all the arrangements you come to and in all forms of agreement you make, including the issue of the transatlantic market-place - and that we are included by means of the codecision procedure.
I think we can come to a sensible form of cooperation in this area too!
