Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their erudite report which has united this House.
We will support this report and, with it, the recommendation to ratify the Treaty of Amsterdam.
This treaty, however, has failed to meet the aim of providing the groundwork for enlargement.
It satisfies the condition that we should begin negotiations, but not that we can conclude them.
This has mainly to do with the fact that the efficiency needed to increase the size of the Union by 5, 10 or 11 Member States is lacking as a result of not extending the principle of the qualified majority vote far enough.
If the Ecofin Council says there should be no competition in taxes, then it is correct.
Yet better still would be to apply the majority principle to fiscal policy to achieve the harmonization necessary in the areas needed.
The same goes for structural policy and for the impossible situation found in the area of foreign trade policy, to name but a few key points.
We should not only press for these institutional reforms at the next intergovernmental conference to be held prior to the next enlargement, but instead we should make it a priority that those legal and domestic policy areas which have become Community responsibility are given over to majority voting or codecision five years into the treaty.
It is not so much that we need new powers within the European Union.
What we do need are the instruments to make sensible use of the powers we already have.
We want to make this clear and carry it through by using the treaty appropriately.
Clearly, we should not just talk about the negative aspects.
We should look to the arrangement that, in future, Parliament enjoys codecision in those areas of the first pillar in which the Council decides with a majority.
And I consider this a major breakthrough for the rights of Parliament.
Parliament has finally appeared on the European stage where legislation is concerned.
The only exception is agriculture and fisheries policy, both in legislation and budgetary policy, and this will need to be revised in the next round, so as to achieve parity in this area.
We need to realize that the relationship of the institutions will change in the long term through the right of the European Parliament to elect the Commission President.
In future the Heads of State and of Government will consider which candidate has the majority here.
This will lead to a politicizing of this organization and will also affect the future relationship of Parliament and Commission in a particular way.
I believe this is something we should be working on.
Some of the things I have heard from the reports of individual committees should be reconsidered.
It is not a case of incorporating each particular area into the treaty by means of special rules; we actually need fewer special rules and greater simplification of the treaty to bring all policy areas under the same rules.
We must not end up with a huge treaty, but at a smaller treaty.
We need in the long term to arrive at a constitution because this is the only way to really make progress.
This treaty offers the chance to make basic social and civil rights the legally verifiable basis for evaluating our legislation.
This is a major development!
In the next round we want to implement individual rights to litigation on the strength of basic citizens' rights, but this first step is a great and positive step, which we should make proper use of.
The inclusion of the social chapter and the employment chapter in the overall treaty gives the social dimension to this European Union.
We are called upon as the European Parliament to make use of these instruments too.
The European Court, contrary to the opinion of Mrs Roth, has been strengthened by this treaty, and to make large parts of legal and domestic policy Community responsibility, that is all areas dealing with the setting of norms and standards, is a breakthrough for the Community Europe and acts as a counter to intergovernmental Europe, and we should continue with this work.
With foreign and security policy we have new areas and new procedures.
Practice will show whether these really bring progress.
If I bear the planning unit in mind and see how it is talked about in certain Member States, that it is only a COREPER body in which the countries are represented by one person, then that is not progress.
This planning unit should not be an intergovernmental organization at ambassador level or below, but rather a true Community solution fully involving the Commission, or else it will not bring success.
We will have to see to it that a motion as sensible as this is tabled, and Parliament will approve nothing less.
We have exhausted the present method of the intergovernmental conference.
Europe needs to be involved in a political dialogue and should not be held back by the doubting Thomases found in the offices of the national ministries.
Only then will we be in the position to bring about a new order for Europe, and this is something we should be working towards.
