Mr President, that was the last report by my colleague, Mr Alber.
I would like to thank him for his helpful and considerate cooperation and to wish him all the best for his new post.
My group will vote for the motion for a resolution and reject all the amendments.
I would like to say a word, Mr Alber, about the specific function of the term 'union of states'.
In the terminology used by Germany's Federal Constitutional Court it is evidently an attempt to reduce the law of the European Union, of the European Communities, to international law.
We are not talking about a theoretical problem.
We talking about a full-blooded political conflict, which could develop into a crisis for the European Union.
It is not a general question about whether there are limits to European integration in national constitutions.
No, the question is whether constitutional courts can review the validity of the actions of the Community.
That is what is at stake.
This is not just about Germany's Federal Constitutional Court, there are also comparable trends in other Member States, such as Austria or Sweden, to name just two.
Ten years ago, as you pointed out, Mr Alber, the European Court of Justice said that the need for uniformity, that is, the uniform application of Community law through the national courts, was particularly important when the legal force of some Community action - such as the adoption of a directive - was in doubt.
Differences of opinion between the courts of the Member States about the validity of Community actions could jeopardize the unity of the Community's legal system itself and threaten the fundamental need for legal certainty.
That is the reason for the primacy of Community law.
It is not presumptuousness, it is not arrogance, it is an absolute necessity!
That is why it is no wonder that the President of the European Court of Justice, Mr Rodriguez Iglesias, is talking about an attack on the basic elements of the Community's constitution in this context.
I very much hope that the national constitutional courts will recognise that in accordance with article 164 it is the task of the European Court of Justice to ensure the law in interpreting and applying this treaty.
To ensure, that is the wording, to ensure!
No national constitutional court can set itself up as ruling over Community law.
No constitutional court can be the tutor.
Incidentally, there is an element of control by national parliaments in all this, because they decide which additional powers can be transferred.
I very much hope that we will be spared one situation, namely treaty infringement proceedings against a Member State because of a judgement by a constitutional court.
We can do without that!
