Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European employment summit must set in motion a train of events which will ensure that the European Union's political system gains more credibility.
The 18 million unemployed will be left without hope unless the Treaty of Amsterdam also includes concrete measures.
While the targets set by the Commission, the Council Presidency and the rapporteur too, are quite correct, we still need, in addition to labour-market stimuli and reforms, a quite different economic framework in which to operate.
In spite of the favourable autumn forecasts, further action is needed in this area.
The European Union's investment ratio is completely unsatisfactory and cannot help us overcome the unemployment problem.
We need at least 1 % more public investment and at least 1 % of GDP more private investment.
I hope this can be combined in a partnership between the public and private sectors so that a European majority can be created in this area to promote employment prospects.
I consider it essential that the employment summit should tackle this issue in a determined manner, so that the dramatic employment crisis can be resolved.
I also believe that taxation requires restructuring, not only to relieve the tax burden affecting the labour market, but also through this means to promote demand within our borders.
To boost employment - which cannot solely be promoted by labour-market policy - we require, in addition to investment benchmarking and infrastructure investment, accountability that public investment is actually helping the employment situation.
I believe that proof needs to be provided every year.
Investment in infrastructure will allow us not only to improve the weak competitive position of the European Union in respect of logistics, transport and communication, but also actually to create new jobs.
I am also of the opinion that in order to boost employment, EU policy, that is to say, all policy measures adopted by the European Union, must focus directly on the job market, and consequently taxation must be restructured away from large-scale enterprises, particularly those engaged in industry, technology and research, and towards the major employers, namely small and medium-sized enterprises.
This would represent a real contribution to tax restructuring from a passive to an active labour market policy.
