Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a European Council which for the first time has concentrated exclusively on the core question of the last decade of this century, the common fight against unemployment in the Member States of the Union; a European Council which has fired the starting gun for the solution of the core question of Europe in the first decade of the next century, bringing the people of the whole continent together in a union of freedom, democracy and economic development; a budget in which, together with Parliament, they have put through the principles of thrift, solidarity and the ability of the Union to act.
An exemplary and successful effort of the Presidency for sensible cooperation between the Council and Parliament in all areas of Union policy; that, Mr President of the European Council, was the great Presidency of a small country!
My party supports the decisions of the European Council of 12 and 13 December on the start of the process of expanding the Union.
They correspond to the baseline which my party supported in the discussion procedure in our Chamber.
First, to start the accession procedure with all applicant countries simultaneously.
Second, to start the accession negotiations first with five plus one, and third, by intensive introductory discussions and strengthened assistance, to contribute to making the start of concrete negotiations with each of the remaining five possible, as soon as possible.
I welcome what President Juncker said about Turkey.
My party thought the offer the European Council made to Turkey was already very generous.
Some thought even too generous.
We say now that Turkey should think about its interests and use the chance the offer provides, instead of withdrawing into a sulk!
Also, the most important result of the summit is not Turkey's reaction but the fact that the summit gave the green light for the start and the method of accession of the people of Eastern Europe to the European Union.
We look towards the future, and I say that the decision to start the accession process is as nothing compared to the decisions the European Union will have to make in the next few years if enlargement is to be successful.
We shall have to prepare ourselves for long and difficult negotiations, because if it actually happens in the next five, six, or seven years, the strength of the willingness and enthusiasm for accession of the people of Eastern Europe will sometimes be tested.
But the test which our Union will have to pass is even more difficult.
The reform of agricultural policy, the structural funds, and the financing of the enlargement, will all show one thing very quickly: that the enlargement does not come at zero cost.
It will demand willingness to reform, concessions, readiness to compromise and sacrifice from all, I underline all, Member States of the Union.
And the Union will not only be tested for perseverance, but also for courage and farsightedness.
That applies particularly to reform of the institutions.
My party regrets that the Luxembourg European Council said nothing more about that than to confirm Amsterdam.
We insist that the Union needs substantial reform before the first accession by a new Member State.
(Applause) The start of the enlargement process must also be the start of a great discussion by all the social forces in the European Union, a discussion about the future of the Union itself and thus of Europe.
This discussion, ladies and gentlemen, must also take place here in our Chamber, with greater vigour.
The introduction of the euro and enlargement present us all with the question of the future constitution of our Union.
They present us with the question of the future boundaries of the Union.
The enlargement must have and will have boundaries.
There must be more things in Europe than between heaven and earth, to quote Shakespeare, more than just in or out of the European Union.
We must discuss them!
Ladies and gentlemen, in the 1950s our fathers had the courage and far-sightedness to abolish the thousand-year old antagonism between France and Germany in a European Community.
For the first time for a thousand years, our generation of politicians has the opportunity to unite the whole of Europe on the basis of the free will of its peoples.
Let us show that we have the same courage and the same farsightedness as our fathers.
(Applause)
