Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, 21 November 1997 is a noteworthy date.
The Heads of State and of Government finally made up their minds to avoid big words at a summit, and agreed on concrete decisions.
Subsidiarity was ensured.
President of the Council Juncker said rightly that we all have the same disease, but do not necessarily need the same medicine.
In Luxembourg, the content of the approaches to the common employment strategy on which the Essen summit decided was filled in.
The main concern of the citizens of Europe is now also the main subject of those who are responsible for government, that is the fight against unemployment.
The most important findings from our debates in the European Parliament with a highly committed President of the Council were put into effect.
Retraining and further education, training and jobs will be made possible for young people under 25 within six months, and for the long-term unemployed within one year.
Small and medium-sized companies are actively supported by the European Investment Bank.
Budget resources are restructured, and our Parliament played a leading role in this.
Luxembourg is also a rejection of the Utopians who thought that additional programmes at European level and costing billions could solve the problem.
Anyone who says that this can be financed is fooling the citizens.
It is also a slap in the face for those in Germany who claimed in advertisements that the German Federal Chancellor would block it.
On the contrary, here one of them has used his great influence to achieve unanimity for results which can be put into effect.
Our colleague Mr Wolf will therefore also be wrong with his hope for a change of government in our country.
Mr Wolf has often been mistaken, but not usually the German Federal Chancellor!
Back to Luxembourg.
Jean-Claude Juncker made it clear that 2 + 2 = 5.
The reason is that there is a European added value, through coordination, model projects and ever more intensive exchange of experience.
The future annual balance sheet of the national campaigns based on European guidelines has every chance of becoming a success in relation to group dynamics.
The employment summit shows that the European medal has not just one side, the economic, but equally the other side, the social.
Congratulations, Jean-Claude Juncker!
