Mr President, women are being lured to the EU by the promise of easy money.
They are being recruited for so-called "pleasure centres' that are anything but pleasure.
They are enticed into dubious employment and sham marriages.
Women from Asia, Africa, South America and the central and eastern european states.
Better and better organized gangs of pimps make women submissive by threatening or dispensing violence, exploiting them, forcing them into prostitution, holding them prisoner.
That is the everyday existence of more than 500, 000 women annually.
Mrs Gradin, the Commission is proposing a pan-European approach to the fight against the trade in women for the sole purpose of sexual exploitation, and we fully support this in the European Parliament.
However, it needs to be made more concrete and include the NRO.
In her committed and excellently researched report, Sue Waddington demanded that the issue be regarded from the victims' angle.
I go along with that.
First of all, we need an awareness-raising campaign to provide us with background information on, and thereby thwart, the aims of so-called recruitment agencies, the structure of their systems and their wheelings and dealings.
The victims need help in finding the courage to come forward and name the offenders.
They need a safe refuge and, at least, a limited right of abode in a women's hostel before returning home, having been properly prepared for asserting themselves there in the face of poverty and discrimination.
It might be cynical of me to say this, but it is true: trafficking in human beings is one of the growth markets in Europe.
Not limited by borders, it can be carried on without serious risk.
This international crime must be sapped of its strength by closing the localities known to traffic in people, confiscating the profits made from criminal acts, imposing maximum custodial sentences, and depriving the perpetrators of their civil rights.
The Member States must take united action and stop this slave trade through the terms of treaties concluded with non-member countries, on behalf of hundreds of thousands of suffering women.
