Three minutes, Mr Oreja, what can I say in three minutes about this working programme?
A difficult question.
Normally I have no problem with it, but this time I have.
For instance, I could ask you whether your submissions are a kind of cover-up, and with that I am saying rather more clearly what Mr Fayot wrapped up much more elegantly and politely in his speech.
The Commission - and I know that it is wrong to chastise you yourself for it, and therefore I apologize to you personally, but you are here so to speak responsible for your colleagues - the Commission has submitted several documents: a document about new legislative initiatives, with a Commission number; a document about political priorities, with a Commission number; a document about what you have done in 1997 - unfortunately not about what you have not done - with a Commission number.
What interests me most, that is the indicative list of what you intend for this year, without a Commission number, is incidentally the thickest document with the most proposals.
That means that we can rely on something perhaps coming or perhaps not.
Then I will say something about what everyone here expects from me.
We have voted in the last month on a decision about whether the Commission deserves to be sent home, whether the Commission deserves - indirectly of course - a declaration of no confidence.
We said no.
I made a speech here which was full of praise for the Commission.
In the last year, as chairperson of the BSE Monitoring Committee, I have often praised the Commission, including you, when you were in my committee.
But I now have no more reason at all to praise you!
Not you personally, Mr Oreja, not Mr Bangemann and not many others.
Where is the legislation in the follow-up to BSE, where is what we want?
Yes, there is a Green Paper about food law.
But where is the proper legislation about it?
Where is the framework directive about food, food control, hygiene and other aspects?
I have a slight feeling, Mr Oreja, that the Commission is returning to the doze in which it has been lying for the last ten years.
I am not prepared to accept that.
We shall look very carefully at what comes in the next few months.
None of the documents which I mentioned to you include anything about what specifically you are going to do.
You the Commission, again not you personally.
I have nothing at all against Mr Santer saying that they must reflect more.
I always think reflection is excellent.
I would just very much like to see a result of the reflection, and I do not want another Green Paper, I do not want another White Paper, I want crisp legislative initiatives.
I want nutrient identification, I want food hygiene, food control, I want the framework legislation about it!
Please go home and say to Mr Bangemann that he should finally fall on his feet and start to become active.
I know that Mr Bangemann would willingly discuss this with me directly, and I would also willingly discuss it here with Mr Bangemann.
What is in these many documents, even this semi-official document which does not even have a Commission number, is in no way enough for me to say in the next year that this Commission is doing what it must.
In no way, Mr Oreja!
I am sorry if that upsets you, please pass it on to your colleagues!
