Mr President, the Committee on External Economic Relations unanimously agreed to support Mr Wiersma's report and thus the Interim Agreement, because it considers that it would not only be wrong but also very dangerous to isolate Uzbekistan at a time of serious crisis.
We must take every opportunity to develop this country and to build up a strong relationship with it.
This is not just for economic reasons, although they also suggest the same course.
Uzbekistan has abundant resources of raw materials.
After years of crisis, in 1996 the country experienced a modest growth rate of 1 %.
However, in addition to economic reasons there are important political ones.
Human rights have been mentioned here again and again.
We must of course press for the observance of democracy, the rule of law and human rights.
But we should not forget that Uzbekistan was a central Asian colony first of Russia and then of the Soviet Union, and suffered from classic colonialism, by contrast with the Ukraine, which Mrs Mann and I constantly deal with in the Committee on External Economic Relations, or to Belarus, which gives us serious cause for concern.
These are European countries.
Uzbekistan has the classic symptoms of an immediately post-colonial situation: a cotton-based single-commodity economy, over-reliance on world markets, an almost total absence of manufacturing industry, and a need to export raw materials which it cannot make use of itself.
Combined with decades of effective dictatorship under a totalitarian system, this means that we cannot measure this country by our own standards.
That is why I believe that we should refrain from being arrogant and simply say that we should apply the same yardsticks to this country as we would, for example, to an ACP country.
Although the ACP countries already have many years of development and cooperation with Europe behind them, there are of course enormous deficits there too, and democracies are in a minority.
We must therefore conclude this Interim Agreement, and we must develop an intensive dialogue and trading relationship with Uzbekistan.
On the other hand, by virtue of the human rights clause and the 'suspension clause', we have an opportunity to use our influence systematically to support democracy, human rights, nationality rights and religious freedom.
