Mr Rübig, on the question of Mr Gaulider and all the other related questions which you have raised, I would like to tell you that I have discussed the questions which you have raised and related questions very intensively with the Slovakian Prime Minister, Mr Meciar.
This happened at the end of August, on the occasion of a half-day working visit to Slovakia which I made because, precisely at the time when Slovakia was actually excluded from the enlargement process by everyone, I wanted to show through this visit that this does not mean that we are now giving Slovakia the cold shoulder.
I then discussed this question with Mr Meciar, the president of the republic, the opposition parties in the Slovakian parliament and some other Slovakian friends and colleagues.
I also took this opportunity to invite both the president and the prime minister to make a common declaration about the accession of Slovakia to the European Union, and I made it clear that we wanted some answers to questions which we brought from outside to be given in Slovakia itself.
By chance that was precisely the day on which voting on the so-called Gaulider case was due in the Slovakian parliament.
The vote was then postponed.
In all discussions with all contacts in Slovakia, I have made it clear that we place the highest value on improved functioning of the democratic institutions in Slovakia, and I also made it clear, in a further conversation with Mr Meciar last Saturday in Luxembourg, that the fact that the European Council has nevertheless explicitly included Slovakia in the enlargement process should not be interpreted as meaning that we are now satisfied with the quality of the democratic processes which have been achieved in Slovakia, but that we assume that further efforts must be made.
There is Slovakia, there is the Slovakian government, there are also five million Slovak men and women, whose place is in the centre of Europe.
We should please not forget that, however angry we are about what Mr Meciar does, does not do or fails to do.
There is not only Mr Meciar, but also five million Slovaks, who are worth our support.
