Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner Brittan, I wish to draw your attention in particular to point 5 of the resolution, in which we call for the release of political prisoners.
The list of names includes one Ogana Ifowodo.
Let me tell you something about him.
Ogana Ifowodo is a member of the Heinrich Böll Foundation, which is a German-based political group to which I myself belong.
Mr Ifowodo attended the Commonwealth Conference in Edinburgh, at the invitation of our Foundation, in order to present the annual report of the Civil Liberties Organization from Nigeria on the human rights situation in that country.
He was arrested at the Benin-Nigerian border on his return to Nigeria on 6 November.
The Nigerian security police have so far refused family members and work colleagues access to Mr Ifowodo.
There is therefore a risk that he has been tortured, or even that this is still going on.
The security police have confirmed the arrest and the place of detention and have cited "obstinacy' as the reason for the arrest.
Of course, no such offence exists in Nigerian law, but presumably this refers to the real motives behind the arrest.
The arrest itself is only one instance in a series of arrests of Nigerian journalists and workers from human rights organizations linked with the Pro-Democracy Movement.
This attempt to silence all critics of the regime is clearly designed to pave the way to a form of democracy which will be controlled by the military government.
Only this can explain the so-called charge of obstinacy.
Commission Vice-President Brittan, we recently received a visit from Nobel Peace Prize winner Wole Soyinke.
Talks were held in the Commission and in Parliament with Council representatives at all levels.
I would like to put to them the following two questions: Firstly, what further steps can the Commission take, together with the Member States, to move towards an embargo on oil from Nigeria?
And secondly: the budgetary procedure now incorporates a new budget line.
How does the Commission propose to deploy this new line?
