Mr President, I am very pleased that we have the opportunity today to talk about the way the European Union has been performing at the Kyoto conference, and I should like to thank the President of the Council and the Commissioner for briefing us so fully.
On the other hand, I am a little sad when I hear what you have to say, and when I think back nine years to the Toronto Objective, formulated at that time, in which there was talk of a 20 % reduction in emissions by the year 2005.
Today we are a long way from that, but I am glad that at least in the European Union a clear aim has been set, and that we have agreed to call for a genuine reduction within a reasonable time.
Mr Linkohr has already said we certainly want to, but will we be able to?
I think we shall have to expand the political options if we are to achieve the intended reduction.
We must also discuss options other than those to do with energy, because there are one or two other things which will help us reduce greenhouse emissions, not just in the energy sector.
I am referring here to switching to other production methods, and also to the retention of emissions.
Perhaps I can mention a few examples.
As far as energy is concerned, it is certainly a matter of greater efficiency in order to achieve better utilization, but also of using forms of energy which produce less CO2 - I am thinking here of renewable resources, familiar to everyone in the House, I am sure.
One must, however, limit the use of energy by vehicles in the same way - we shall shortly have an opportunity to discuss this as part of the vehicle oil programme.
Other policy options are, for example, agriculture and forestry, and not just where the aim is to reduce methane emissions, but also where we aim to prepare our plants and forests for a general change in climate: where different forestry methods and other types of fertilizer are used so that this general change will not mean the death of our forests.
I say this as someone who comes from the Alps, where forests are very important.
We need to prepare our industry and give some thought to possible methods of producing chemicals or metals in industry; waste disposal will have to be examined as well.
My next point is very important - and here I address myself directly to the President of the Council, because I know that the subject of jobs is being discussed this week in Luxembourg.
Not only can a reduction in heating, and hence less CO2 emissions, be achieved very quickly in almost every European country by the use of heat insulation, but numerous jobs could be created, particularly in small and medium-sized businesses, and the well-being of people can be increased.
We could be in a win/win situation here, which really ought to be exploited.
I hope that a proposal of this kind will be forthcoming.
It is incomprehensible that the USA appears to be thinking only of the short term and putting cheap energy for its economy before the interests of the climate.
I think we in Europe need industrial innovation right now, and that we could save the costs of change a thousand times over, compared to when the very high costs of climatic change become payable.
After Kyoto we shall certainly receive a report in this House concerning implementation, particularly how and with what programmes we can achieve it in the Union.
I very much hope that we shall not have to say afterwards that it was not a legally binding agreement, and that even if it were, the values were so low that we would not achieve our aim.
