Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the agreement has a long title but it is also a radically altered agreement that we will hopefully be adopting today.
The Committee on External Economic Relations recommends that you accept the recommendation.
We accepted the report as long ago as November of last year.
However, in early January the Council informed us that it wished to withdraw its request for assent to enable the Commission's proposal to be revised and presented again.
The plan was successful.
The report that is now before us has been much improved.
What is the 1958 Agreement of the United Nations Economic Committee for Europe about?
In 1958 some of the countries represented in the United Nations Economic Committee for Europe concluded an agreement on the adoption of uniform conditions for the approval of motor vehicle parts and equipment.
I know that Mr Mombaur and Mr Malangré welcome this enthusiastically.
To be more precise, it is about the mutual recognition between the contracting parties of type-approvals for automobiles which have been manufactured in accordance with these standards.
The Commission's proposal provides that the European Community as well as its individual Member States should now accede to this UN agreement.
I am very pleased about this as it makes clear that the European Union is also acceding to international agreements to a much greater extent and is entitled to vote as a legal entity.
However, for legal reasons it is the European Community and not the European Union which is to be the party to the agreement as the EU, unlike the EC, does not have an international legal personality.
The economic significance of such an agreement to the European motor industry is self-evident.
Since the agreement came into being, about 100 specific provisions have been adopted, encompassing all items of equipment and parts used in motor vehicles.
A revised version has been made necessary, among other things, by the completion of the European single market.
It has also become clear that a set of internationally recognized legal structures is required as a result of the speed of technological advances in the motor industry and increasing international trade links.
The present proposal differs from the first one in three respects.
First, the role of the members after the EC's accession to the agreement is described in detail.
Second, article 100a is being added as a further legal principle to the European Community's accession to the amended agreement.
Third, an appendix, Appendix 3, which provides the practical details of the Community's and Member States' participation in the agreement is being added to the resolution on contributions.
In particular this motion makes it easier for us to give our assent today than a year ago as this appendix contains the request which we made jointly with the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to the Commission, to the effect that the latter should inform Parliament in good time before the formal tabling of proposals for enacting the new arrangements.
In this way Parliament can make its wishes known at this early stage.
This procedure for the provision of information has been promised by Commissioner Bangemann and confirmed in writing.
Mr Bangemann keeps his promises!
This promise is now a part of the formal legal document and its quality has therefore appreciated.
To enshrine the arrangements in Community law the codecision procedure must be applied, in other words Parliament has to give its assent.
This guarantees our consultation rights, especially if we take into account the information procedure already mentioned.
Strengthening this agreement by means of a streamlined decision-making process and the participation of the EC as a member will significantly enhance its international significance.
Other major vehicle manufacturers will accede to the agreement sooner or later.
This will further improve the sales opportunities for the European industry and the world market.
We are giving our assent to an agreement which is necessary and worthwhile for Europe.
