Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the Social Democrats are pleased to see this debate taking place today.
I am especially glad that all my colleagues recognize that running down the social system is no way to create jobs.
May I remind you, President-in-Office of the Council, that the employment statement contained in the Amsterdam Treaty was initially quite unpopular.
Germany in particular wanted to reject its adoption right up to the last minute.
The present situation was only achieved through public debate and by the intervention of the European Parliament, the Commission and several Member States.
I mention this because the danger naturally exists that former opponents will again wreck our efforts on 21 November by staging a boycott.
We have lost a great deal of time by the Council's failure to recognise the need to adopt the Elise programme.
Risk capital for SMEs will now be given top priority by Luxembourg.
The national parliaments and governments will not be released from their responsibility, but Mr Santer, you are quite right, nothing more can be achieved by misinterpretations of subsidiarity.
I would briefly like to mention three points.
First, we need high quality, sustainable employment opportunities.
We have had enough cheap jobs without training, without a future and without social security.
Secondly, we need more jobs for women.
A certain amount of courage is required, even today, to promote this.
Those in responsibility find it much easier to send women back to the kitchen or to parttime jobs.
Thirdly, we need new ideas.
What Member States cannot achieve by themselves, measures which they have neglected and those which they do not yet trust, could be implemented at European level in the form of pilot projects.
For my part I am convinced that the planned funding by the European Investment Bank will not be sufficient in the medium term if the Council of Ministers takes its job seriously.
Mr Juncker, we will be keeping a critical and positive eye on the activities of the Council, demanding real results when necessary and intervening constructively whenever possible.
