Madam President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, lung cancer is certainly not just a problem for health ministers, but also for finance ministers.
When the health ministers decided here a few days ago here to introduce a ban on tobacco advertising, incidently despite dissenting votes by my country, Austria, and by Germany, I believe that only some of the ministers affected were present.
We know that no European state can keep its budget under control without revenues from tobacco taxes.
So European governments benefit from their citizens' addiction.
It is very much in their interest for people to smoke a lot.
Not only is 20 to 30 a day better, 60 a day is much better, as the revenue is correspondingly higher!
We know that children and young people who can be stopped from smoking do not turn into addictive smokers later on.
So how can we manage to protect our children?
I believe that is the main question.
We will never get people who already smoke to stop.
My husband smokes 60 cigarettes a day, and in the course of a long marriage I have given up trying to get him to stop.
But how can we protect our children?
Is the Community-wide introduction of a minimum age of 18 for buying tobacco products feasible?
We already have a minimum age of 16 in Austria, and it is not observed.
Today a twelve-year-old, even a ten-year-old child can go and buy cigarettes, saying they are buying them for their dad, and the child will get the cigarettes.
Nevertheless, I believe that if we were to get through this increase in the minimum age, we would at least have a chance of helping a lot of young people.
Is an advertising ban the answer?
We are talking about something which it is legal to produce, which the state earns revenue from, a lot of revenue, and which quite definitely shortens many people's lives considerably.
But this product is actually a drug!
So how is it that we allow it to be sold?
There are so many contradictions that we are aware of nowadays.
I wonder - today it is cigarettes, tomorrow it will be alcohol - there you have cirrhosis or cancer of the liver - next it will be smoked meat.
We Austrians love smoked meat and smoked meat certainly also causes cancer of the stomach.
As an Austrian I am perhaps very sensitive about the idea of a state, like the one we share a border with, which has forbidden everything.
I would like to thank you very much, Mr Valverde, you have given us food for thought.
And tomorrow we shall all have to follow both our hearts and minds when we vote.
