Mr President, Madam Commissioner, misuse of a term has repeatedly occurred during this debate.
The problem is not asylum-seekers according to the Geneva Convention.
Although there are different regulations here amongst the nations, regulations do exist.
The problem is also not the acceptance of guest workers, although they are subject to completely different conditions within individual states.
This leads to problems which are not shared equally, but it is all regulated nationally.
What causes us problems here, and where we have to find a solution, is the problem of refugees.
As a result of the Balkan crisis we are confronted with this massive problem in a way we have not seen heretofore.
We must find solutions to it.
It has emerged that individual countries such as German, Austria and others have been put under extreme pressure simply because they adjoin the crisis zones.
If, with this problem one thinks of the existing one, where these countries have in any case previously employed many guest workers from third countries and accepted their families, then you add to these problems of integration, schooling, housing, etcetera, extra problems to an extent that one cannot imagine this situation continuing.
We need new solutions, because these countries, although they have been commended internationally for their reception of refugees, must no be overloaded in future.
For that reason I agree the proposals before us.
We shall not be able to avoid a sharing of burdens, but that must be a sharing of people.
Offset payments do not help the state concerned, it must be a sharing of people.
I should like to go one step further, however, because reality has shown us that problems arise here, for example, from the use by many criminals of this stream of refugees, the displaced persons , to enter the relevant country and to carry out their nefarious deeds there, whether they be weapon smuggling or drug dealing.
We must introduce mechanisms whereby such criminal elements do not cross the frontiers.
We must also rule this out by making suspicion of responsibility for a crime additional grounds for exclusion and expulsion.
A problem arises when we grant asylum not just to the family of the person concerned, but, as is proposed here, we go beyond the core family and also accept the relatives.
That would lead to extreme situations in our countries.
That is a proposal that cannot be agreed by us in this form.
Otherwise, I am glad that we are considering the introduction of regulations that serve our countries and the whole of Europe.
