Mr President, Mr Commissioner, my first point is as follows: There have been some problems with the translation of the resolution.
My original German wording referred to a murder attempt in Parliament and this was translated in all other languages as "murder' .
This of course makes a fundamental difference for us here, and an even bigger one for Mr Hajdari, who was attacked in the House, since he is still alive and was not in fact murdered, thank goodness.
Furthermore, in some of the translations it seems that a connection has been made between my request, or indeed that contained in the resolution, that in collaboration with the European Council an observer be sent to the Albanian Parliament, and the aid which we currently send to Albania.
In the German version it is quite clear that no such conditions have been imposed.
Both issues must obviously be regarded at the same time, but they should not be regarded as interdependent.
When I drew up this urgency resolution, I was unaware of just how pressing the matter would be, since a number of decisions were being taken in Albania, and primarily in the Albanian Parliament, which from our point of view we simply cannot accept.
For example, a number of weeks ago a decision was taken for a time-limit which the Speaker of the Albanian Parliament imposed on the Constitutional Court.
The Speaker said that if the Constitutional Court did not make certain changes, then it would be dissolved on 20 December of this year, that is to say in two days time.
Parliament was therefore stating quite categorically that if certain things were not done, the subsequent appointment of judges to the Constitutional Court would be changed in such a way that this would only be undertaken in accordance with the political sentiment of the ruling Party.
This is something which we cannot tolerate and I believe that those who are today opposing this resolution on Albania must themselves accept some responsibility if the Constitutional Court in Albania is illegally and undemocratically dissolved the day after tomorrow.
