Madam President, Madam Commissioner, I would first like to thank Mrs Anttila for her excellent, carefully prepared report.
Then I should like to start with the provocative question: why do we actually have animal transports, if everything is so terrible as has been depicted here?
I should like to make the following comment on that: we suffer from a continuing overproduction of beef.
This has been exacerbated by the BSE scandal.
Beef consumption has sunk rapidly and we still bring in very many animals from third countries.
That is the situation confronting the European farmer.
The Council, Commission and Parliament are now searching for ways of reducing the resulting crisis.
What are our possibilities?
The most expensive and most unproductive method is to store beef.
It will be returned to the market later, sold cheaply, and the quality will be affected.
The next method of reducing the quantities of meat is an early sale premium.
It has been recently resolved to do this, but presupposes that we have a market for veal, that there are consumers in Europe who will eat this veal.
Otherwise that is also just a drop in the ocean and it will only have a secondary effect.
I do not want to describe the next method more exactly, as it is described by a word from the Bible, and there are also many good things in the Bible.
It is not exactly a suitable example, but this method is not used in most states, because it meets with ethical objections.
That is where we are now.
We have a market in the Middle East and North Africa, but selling animals there requires extremely long transport times.
That is the problem.
As long as we want to make use of this market we should at least so design the conditions for the animals that they become bearable for them.
In any case, I move that the export of meat must have priority over all other methods.
That is supremely important, and it is really not possible for us to stop all animal transport completely.
I have checked the figures in my country.
There are currently 48 % live cattle transports, consisting of breeding and slaughter animals.
There is nothing against that, if those farmers build up a cattle herd in order to produce milk and meat for their own population.
In other words, we should bear this in mind and not lump everything into one category.
We must continue to encourage slaughter and breeding animals, so that they can reach these markets.
In this way we will achieve a sensible result within our development policy.
Otherwise, transports should only be carried out by experts who can handle animals and who abide by Community regulations.
If that does not work, then no export subsidies should be paid.
We should be guided by this principle.
