Madam President, I quite unreservedly agree with the President of the Commission, Mr Santer, that employment policy is a matter for the nation states.
On the other hand, I am convinced that in view of the high unemployment figures, the EU should not close its eyes to this problem.
For this reason I would welcome the employment summit due to take place in November.
I await real results from this summit.
The debate has gone on long enough, now is the time for action.
We need concrete results here.
The rapporteur, my colleague Wim van Velzen, has produced an excellent report, undoubtedly with the support of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
A number of vital topics for debate can now be tabled at the employment summit.
I quite agree that the training of unemployed young people and the long term unemployed is a very important issue.
However, like Council President Juncker and my colleague Mr Pronk, I doubt that such precise targets can be set, since the starting point is different for the various Member States and such a policy is therefore only likely to arouse false hopes.
This also applies to the percentage targets.
Lifelong learning should be encouraged, of that there is no doubt.
However, whether 0.5 % is required overall for this purpose is another question.
Continued employment after training is tremendously important for motivating young working people.
A reduction in the amount of overtime is something which we have quite rightly promoted for many years, since this will doubtless lead to greater employment opportunities.
In Germany this also applies to the DM 610 category.
Abuse of this regulation does not significantly affect the employment situation in the Federal Republic of Germany.
I unreservedly support moves aimed at placing atypical working arrangements on an equal footing with full-time work.
Equal job opportunities for women have still not been achieved.
Wage incidental costs must be reduced for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are subject to high salary costs.
This will also help control the illicit job market, currently on the increase, which is damaging job opportunities.
It should be made easier to establish new companies.
We must reduce the level of bureaucracy and simplify the legal requirements.
Guarantee funds are urgently required to protect risk capital, so that innovative ideas can be converted into jobs.
The EIB has a role to play here.
The euro must be introduced by 1 January 1999.
This of course pre-supposes that all participants meet the entry criteria laid down in the Treaty, since only a hard euro can create real jobs.
In conclusion let me say once again that the Council and the Commission must eliminate tax dumping in the Member States once and for all, as this also destroys job opportunities.
Let me recapitulate: the debate has gone on long enough, now is the time for action.
Europe must maintain its social market economy.
This should be neither socialist nor liberal.
Let me end by pointing out that the investment ratio in Bavaria is more than 5 % higher than in all Germany's red-green Länder.
The advice offered by our colleague Mr Wolf is therefore erroneous, as witness the example I have just given.
