Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not think it matters whether we are talking about beef or cattle, every one of us sitting in this hall has an interest, either as a producer, a seller, or a consumer.
The Commission proposes to make the granting of refunds for live cattle exports, under the COM for beef, dependent upon the welfare of the animals during transport.
I must say to start with, that it is a Union objective to do away with the live transport of slaughter cattle in favour of carcass exports.
That should be our aim in the long term.
Until that time, however, conditions for the animals during movement must be improved.
For this reason an official vet should certify the correct transport of cattle, and the payment of export subsidies should be dependent upon production of this official certificate.
Farmers have a great interest in the correct movement of animals, because the condition of the meat depends very largely on how the animals are transported.
In recent years there has been some move in this direction.
We have seen the proportion of live exports in the EU sink by 6 % in three years to reach about 10 % at present.
By way of contrast, the proportion of breeding cattle exports has risen from 16 % to 28 %, and I think that speaks for itself.
We have also seen that the export of carcass meat is favoured over that for live slaughter cattle, receiving much higher export subsidies.
For us to stop all cattle exports, however, would require the EU to support two things.
Firstly, abattoirs would have to be built within the EU to enable the slaughter criteria of the recipient countries to be met.
In that way the animals could be slaughtered in the EU and the meat could be exported.
To make meat exports possible, the Union would also have to provide funding and expertise for the construction of suitable freezing installations in the target countries.
The transport of breeding cattle is not a matter for concern, and strict animal welfare regulations, which are in the farmers' favour, can be taken for granted.
It is the Commission's job to execute and monitor the regulations on animal welfare.
Parliament must be kept regularly informed about them.
It is equally essential that not only adherence to regulations is monitored, but that sanctions are also imposed in cases of contravention.
I should like to give full support to Mrs Anttila's report.
