Mr President, Mr Commissioner, my colleague Mr Posselt has already suggested that this agreement will be just one step into the future for Macedonia.
I would like to add how pleased I am that this cooperation agreement with Macedonia has fallen on such fertile soil in this Parliament.
First of all, I would of course like to thank Mr Pons Grau very warmly for his report.
Macedonia is a country that has gone through a lot in recent years, a country that has managed to free itself from a very difficult hold, which many other countries in a similar situation did not succeed in doing - we only have to think of the fate of Bosnia-Herzegovina, for example.
I believe that this country therefore deserves our support.
So I would also like to stress how delighted I am that a few weeks ago, when we were discussing macro-economic aid for Macedonia, this Parliament changed its spots and agreed to this aid, although there had not been a corresponding debate either in committee or in this House, and displayed enormous confidence, quite rightly in my opinion.
I believe that we in the European Union occupy a significant position, when one considers who Macedonia's traditional trading partners are today.
These are first Bulgaria, followed by the remains of Yugoslavia and then by Russia.
But if we take a look at the map now, and I often have the feeling we do not do that often enough, we can see that Macedonia really is a key country in the Balkans.
For that reason, we must promote overall transport links.
Macedonia is situated almost in the European Union, if you can envisage the route from Greece to Austria or Germany.
This infrastructure needs to be built up both for the sake of this country and also to provide adequate links for the European Union.
I honestly believe that we have a great obligation towards this country.
It is almost a moral obligation, if you consider the geography, if you consider what this country has been through.
Once again, I am pleased that this report has been received so positively by this Parliament, and I hope that it will continue on the path determined for it.
