Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Mr Commissioner, I think it is proper that the speech from Commissioner Leon Brittan was somewhat longer than usual because it was a very full and important speech.
The Commissioner has shown that the USA and Europe are both partners and competitors at the same time.
He was very optimistic that we are increasingly becoming equal partners.
I do not know if everyone sees it like that, especially in the United States of America, or else Helms-Burton or D'Amato might perhaps be viewed differently, and then things might perhaps be viewed differently at McDonnell-Douglas and Boeing, and British Airways and American Airlines, too.
It still seems to me that the view is that Europe has to adhere to bilateral and multilateral agreements, but that America is fully entitled, every so often, when it suits its own interests, to make unilateral arrangements or even unilateral resolutions.
This is no doubt to do with the fact, Mr Commissioner, that in many areas we hold very varying opinions in Europe itself.
You mentioned Bosnia and the Middle East.
We are still not so far down the road that we support the same code, and it is precisely where the Middle East is concerned that I agree with you.
It is not acceptable that Europe should be putting a lot of money in this area, to no avail, because America is exerting too little pressure here to really bring about a peace process through the appropriate attitude of Israel.
I would like to give you my whole-hearted support where Helms-Burton, D'Amato and other acts are concerned.
Europe can be ready for compromise on the detail, but not on the substance; it should be clear that - if, for instance, action is taken against a company - the waiver must cease, for then we must be prepared for argument and debate at the WTO.
I also agree with you: it is good that we now have breathing space, but it is only breathing space and not an overall settlement, and I would like to support you in your efforts to bring about an overall settlement.
One last point in view of the time: fast-track negotiations, talks in the USA, failure and the consequences.
I believe the USA is in a similar situation to us, without overestimating the question we need to ask together - and I stress together - namely: How can we carry out and implement free trade in the world if at the same time there are many economic and, particularly, social problems connected with this form of trade?
We are supporters of free trade because we gain from it.
Yet we need to make it clear to our own people, just as it is necessary for President Clinton to do so in the USA, that free and fair trade are compatible, that, with all free trade, the trade must be fair in the eyes of our citizens.
In this sense it is an important assignment to conduct these talks with the United States of America, at this summit and beyond.
In this respect, may I wish you, Mr Commissioner, a pleasant and successful trip to America, which you will be embarking on tomorrow, I believe?
