Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have the impression that the process of democratization in Togo has become stuck half way.
It is advancing like the Echternach Spring Procession: two steps forwards have so far generally been followed by one or one and a half steps back.
In other words, the President of Togo and his government appear to be in a dilemma as to what course the country should take: full democratization, which would also open the door to rapid political, economic and social development of the whole region in this part of West Africa, or regression into an autocratic regime leading to political isolation and internal confrontation - which is already detectable - and also to economic and social stagnation.
A democratic opening would make the way clear, however, for cooperation with the neighbouring states of Benin, Burkina Faso, Ghana and Ivory Coast, who are all already several stages further along the road to constitutional government, recognition of human rights and education of a pluralist society.
What is to be done?
Our business rules for cooperation with Togo are in article 5 of the Lomé Convention.
We demand the maintenance of human rights, democracy and constitutional law.
We must constantly emphasize that the resumption of development cooperation, much less its expansion, is only possible if the Government of Togo meets these requirements.
The report by the two European experts on preparations for elections has now been presented.
We should ask the Togo Government to study this report very carefully and to implement its main elements.
The Government of Togo should now at last lay out the framework for the next presidential and parliamentary elections in cooperation with the opposition, so that there is equality of opportunity for both government and opposition.
We think there should also be an opportunity within the Joint Assembly or our Committee on Development and Cooperation to start some possible mediation action, on the lines of what we did so successfully in Mali.
