Mr President, Mr Commissioner, I should like to congratulate my fellow group member, Mrs Ghilardotti, underline her arguments and refer briefly to the extraordinary way the Council has handled this.
It was odd from the start that the Council hastily adopted its common position on 27 July 1997, although the report from Parliament was not submitted until 15 September.
So it made its decision almost two months before time.
Then of the 11 amendments which the Commission approved, it only accepted two.
On the other hand the Council was 11 and 18 years out of date respectively when, with Amendment No 8, it deleted three of its own directives for achieving the principle of sexual equality from the years 1979 and 1986 and only referred to two legal provisions from 1975 and 1976, which was a case of back to square one!
But that really does not suit Members of the European Parliament, far less the Committee on Women's Rights and especially after Amsterdam!
We therefore request, Commissioner Flynn, first that account is taken of the other directives on equality, that is, clear definition of areas of application.
Secondly, the definition of indirect discrimination must reflect the ten years of rulings of the European Court, in which reference is made to the disadvantage of the relative imbalance of the sexes and which make no mention of the needs of the organization and politics of a Member State.
Thirdly, the key element in the Ghilardotti report, shifting of the burden of proof, which Parliament and the Commission have approved, must be retained.
Fourthly, adoption of the Directive must be ensured.
This requires positive steps and a report to Parliament every three years, which the Council inexplicably deleted, and the withdrawal of the extenuating provisions of proposals 15 and 16.
Because, Commissioner Flynn, if we take the position that special features of the legal provisions of some Member States must be allowed for and make that a common position, we might as well forget about all EU directives and save ourselves the work!
