Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to support most energetically the criticism expressed here.
The financing of Socrates is indeed scandalous.
There are few activities of the European Community in which the personal sense of an increase in European value, the experience of increased value, can be so appreciated, as in training and exchange programmes, and they have been really successful.
No one can deny that.
These training programmes also make an increasing contribution to employment policy for young people in Europe, who by learning foreign languages, new legal systems, new mentalities in other countries, gain invaluable knowledge and skills.
From these they produce for themselves new opportunities on the European employment market.
Yet I am forced to say that precisely here, where Europe can make some of its credibility visible, the Council is proving to be a Scrooge.
They are being utterly insensitive to what the rump of Europe actually perceives: communication and understanding as the basis for integration.
The commitment of the German Government and others to the open-mindedness, work and life of Europe loses its credibility against this background.
I should also like to say a quick word about the sociopolitical aspect.
It is not just that the payments are so low - and that is itself scandalous - but that this has led to real selection of participants.
Anyone today who can afford it goes abroad to study in any case, and if the finances of Erasmus, for example, are not increased, socially underprivileged young people will be unable to go in future years.
Without additional finance we shall not be able to improve on the current participation by barely 1 % of young people on professional training courses.
One always finds oneself in a dilemma in one's constituency.
Should one advertise the programmes in schools and workplaces to which one is invited, or should one show a sense of responsibility and keep silent about them, because the ratio of applicants to means is growing ever shorter?
I should also like to comment on making the schemes available to central and eastern Europe.
The same heads of government who promise their states EU membership put financial hurdles in the way of a meeting of peoples through the youth exchange scheme.
What is an increase of 25 million on a total budget of 860 million, when the countries who are to profit from Socrates in the future amount to about a third of the population of the present EU?
Just continue in this way, one would just say if one were cynical, and the credibility of this EU will sink still further in the eyes of the population.
All the glossy brochures in the world will not help here.
Reality speaks a different language, and with this financial arrangement we shall not inspire young people for Europe.
