Mr President, I would like to make three remarks on this debate which essentially revolves around enlargement.
Nine years ago a border fence came down in Hungary, a wall came down in Berlin, yearned for by some, feared by others: the revolution had arrived.
At the time we were already agreed that the greatest challenge to the European Community would be not only to have achieved the unification of Western Europe but also to contribute to the process of unification of the whole of Europe.
It was not merely a matter of the re-unification of Germany, to a certain extent it was also about the reunification of the European continent and we are quite clear about it: this could only happen under the symbol of democracy, of the rule of law, of human rights and the market economy.
Today we are discussing the implications of this response which, we have decided, and the others are waiting for our answers and above all for us to display our will to give this answer.
Second remark: countries are coming to us which are completely changing their historical role.
I take Poland as an example.
Poland has always been crushed between its powerful neighbours.
Today it is to change from the suppressed country to the partner.
It is a country with borders.
The border is changing as it were from the west as the borderland to the east, where it will later be the borderland for the European Union.
For the first time in its history - at least in its recent history - it will have to take on an active role for its neighbours, which certainly is not easy.
Applying to join is not hard, but becoming and being a member is on the other hand very difficult.
This is what the other countries which have applied for membership ought to know.
We must also see, and this is the third remark, that we have compiled an examination paper, according to which, as it were, entry is the certificate of capacity for democracy, and all countries are measured against this capacity for democracy.
Therefore we must approach this question with great sensitivity.
Human rights, constitutionality, democratic procedures, the protection of minorities: these are the examination questions.
This is a difficult path - I have just come from Romania - if one has long experience of dictatorship.
Democracy, and we must all learn this, nevertheless needs constant supervision, even amongst friends!
We must learn to tolerate this, for it is the cement which ultimately binds us together and the fact that we can also argue in friendship about political goals is itself also a little bit of freedom!
