Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate is exciting, because it demands of us that we think for a moment about everyday matters.
What does this Europe really need, if it is to be the Europe of its citizens and is not to hide itself away in an ivory tower?
Above all Europe needs to be taken over by argumentative people.
Literati, for example, like Günther Grass, who display responsibility when they get mixed up in politics and describe defects.
That is exactly what Europe needs!
Not quarrelsome, narrow-minded politicians who would like to banish art and culture to the dungeons.
Europe needs vision!
People have to know exactly why they should want Europe.
They need visions like those described as the not-yet-existing by Ernst Bloch: something worth fighting for.
The only thing that makes change possible.
The Amsterdam Treaty is no vision, but a lumpen, legal edifice which fails to meet the central requirement of the treaty, that is, guaranteeing European democracy.
Only that can make Europe capable of existing into the future.
EU reform on the lines of more Europe - less democracy, is a dangerous error, because European democracy is the prerequisite, the necessity for existence, and not a vision.
Europa must exist.
The perception of what we have in common, rather than what divides us; the meeting of equals, rather than the separation; the demolishing of barriers which keep us apart.
Europe must not define its borders, whether they be geographical, ideological, religious, male versus female, young versus old, rich versus poor.
European peace policy in its best sense means overcoming barriers.
Europe is in urgent need of a fresh wind, blowing as it does in Great Britain and France since the changes of government.
But above all Europe needs a change of policy to one which will really attack the scandal of mass unemployment, and which will at last bid farewell to the neo-liberal creed and become a Europe of people, not of moneybags.
Europe needs social democracy.
Europe is pan-European.
People must be convinced of this.
Honestly and truly, Mr Juncker said this morning.
Yes, honestly and truly.
But then one has to say that a Pan-European Europe cannot be financed out of petty cash.
Europe needs all that, and only then will it regain acceptance and trust.
Europe needs that, Mr President, and I really need more time to speak.
