Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, many conflicting interests had to be reconciled here.
On the one hand, a compromise had to be reached between the need to afford Europe's citizens the greatest possible degree of protection of their privacy and the concern of the operators of public telecommunications networks to provide a comprehensive and efficient service.
There had to be harmonization at European level while on the other hand the differing interests of the Member States also had to be taken into account.
An arrangement had to be found which was mainly geared to the standards in the proposal for a directive on the protection of personal data but at the same time was open to future developments.
The solutions arrived at in the conciliation process took satisfactory account of these concerns.
Let me pick out three points.
First, the conditions under which telephone conversations can be recorded have now been stipulated unambiguously.
The wording of the common position in this respect, which was very vague and would have resulted in inconsistent practice throughout the European Union, has been improved.
At the same time, however, the justified interest of the Member States in protecting public security and order has been taken into account in the new derogation.
Second, although the European Parliament was unable to implement its demand that non-inclusion in a telephone directory should be completely free of charge, it was able to reach an acceptable compromise on this point as the actual costs incurred which are to be included have been clearly set out and they will be low.
Third, going beyond protecting the basic rights of natural persons, the compromise now also takes better care of the justified interests of legal entities.
On the one hand this prevents inconsistent application of the Directive and on the other, SMEs in particular, will be protected in respect of their inclusion in public directories and in respect of unsolicited telephone calls.
It is to be welcomed that a simplified wording of the Directive which is easier to understand has been achieved at the end of the legislative procedure, that the terminology and the facts have been adapted to the proposal for a data protection directive, thereby avoiding differing interpretations, and that these two directives - at least in essence - will have to be jointly implemented by Member States by 24 October 1998 at the latest.
The compromise reached places on record the Union's political will to create a uniform European standard for the processing of personal data and the protection of privacy in the context of telecommunications, in particular ISDN and digital mobile networks.
