Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report talks first about amalgamating the Odysseus and Sherlock programmes.
Amalgamating Odysseus with Sherlock is certainly extremely difficult, even with the help of gene technology, which is why I - though a fan of English detective novels - must talk about Odysseus.
For we are actually on an odyssey as far as asylum law in the European Union is concerned.
I think, however, that Mrs Zimmermann has pointed out the right path, not just in her speech, but in her excellent report.
I think it really is necessary to ensure that asylum law is maintained by the training of officers.
This asylum law can only be kept alive when its massive abuse and when illegal immigration are reduced and ended.
For that reason it is very important - and this does occur to some extent on our external borders - that we take measures to lay down security criteria for internal security, just as currency criteria are laid down for currency policy.
Austria is an example of where the mistake was made of joining first, and then undertaking the harmonization procedures which are now in hand.
For that reason we should, with the future membership of central and eastern European states in mind, lay particular emphasis on including these states right from the beginning in the training programmes.
These states are in the process of picking up Community standards with great effort, particularly in the field of internal and legislative policy, but obviously they have some catching up to do.
That is why it should be our priority in this long-term project.
We must see to it that within the European Union we come to look upon ourselves as a single unit - Mr Schulz expressed that very well.
Spain really does border on Russia.
Looked at in this way it is typical that a member from the southernmost country, Spain, spoke on behalf of our group, and I am a representative of the current eastern border.
We should ponder on whether we can in the long term leave the security of our external borders to the most Southerly or the most Easterly states, or if we should not arrive here at communal measures such as, for example, a European Border Protection Service, which would take on and Europeanize the positive experience of perhaps the German Federal Border Guard.
And so I believe that Odysseus could be a first step in the right direction, and I should like to join in the proposal by Mr Schulz that we must come to the next phase of European, Community measures.
