Mr President, I have three good reasons for whole-heartedly supporting Mr Alber's report.
As a university lecturer in both constitutional law and European law, I am delighted that a serious text is now available for my students, in which the nuances of the not so simple and not so easy to understand Solange judgement of the German Federal Constitutional Court is set out very precisely and above all in the correct perspective.
The Alber Report will therefore provide material for numerous, nay countless, seminar papers and dissertations, which cannot be sand of many other academic texts of this type.
As one who has long been committed to the idea of Europe, I welcome the fact that this report represents a clear rejection of the many "yes, but' Europeans.
A rejection of those who always speak out for a greater role for Europe on every appropriate or inappropriate occasion, but who then, when things get serious, fall back on their country's special interests and legal situation; a rejection of those, for example, who not only in Germany but also in my own country say that they want the Euro, but not just yet, and not quite like this, and not quite as laid down in the treaty.
It is also a rejection of those who, in many Member States, want one kind of subsidiarity one day and another the next, depending on what they are after or on how it suits their interests at that particular time.
The Alber report very clearly tells these people that there can only be a common Europe when Member States share sovereignty and partly transfer it to the Community, and then continue to respect this surrender of sovereignty.
Yet the Alber report also says - and I consider this to be very important - that there can only be a common Europe, now and in the future, if this Europe uses all the means at its disposal to protect fundamental rights, exactly as this report formally requests.
As a university lecturer and as one who is committed to the European ideal, I have good grounds for saying 'yes' to this Alber report a third time.
This report, and this has already been said several times, provides an excellent starting point for Siegbert Alber in his important new post as Advocate-General to the European Court of Justice.
In that post Siegbert Alber will, I am quite sure, contribute to ensuring that Europe not only becomes a reality through the decisions of the European Court of Justice, but also that it is brought closer to its citizens.
He will make this contribution in his usual friendly and knowledgeable manner, and because during the short time that I have worked alongside him I have got to know him a little and have come to appreciate his fine sense of humour, I hope that in future the European Court of Justice will make judgements that one cannot just acknowledge with a nod, not only respect and accept, but I also hope that a quiet smile to oneself will sometimes be in order.
