Madam President, the results of the climate conference are discussed in today's edition of a major German newspaper, as has been the case in previous editions.
This morning's lengthy article appears under the heading "Climate politicians in a fog' .
The writer is referring here not only to a political dilemma, but also to a practical one.
It is a dilemma which faced the Kyoto delegates and which underlies the main problem being dealt with at the conference.
It is based on the fact that statements being made by climatologists are, to a large degree, hypothetical, while their forecasts are unreliable and often have to be revised.
Environmental policy is in urgent need of accurate data.
This lack of information is just as pressing a problem as the lack of action.
Here, action and information are closely interrelated, since the extent and intensity of the behavioural change needed has to match the accuracy of the available scientific data.
I therefore believe that we urgently need to extend the scope of our research.
In addition to the continued application of model calculations, we need to expand our chronological and thematic thinking.
Better prognostics require a more complex research programme.
This will help extend the preferred model calculations used to date and will therefore help to control, complement and even qualify these models.
We must realise that the intensity and speed of climate change is relevant for political decision-making, and even the human impact has to be specified in terms of time and space.
If we do not constantly seek to relate research to politics, then the result will almost always be a loss in credibility.
I have a second fundamental comment to make: If I accept that climatic changes are man-made, that they are caused by human actions, if I say that climatic fluctuations exist, if I say "yes' to the idea, or consider it probable - and that is clearly what I do think - then I cannot deny the relationship which this has with energy policy, for example.
I must then at least do an approximate calculation of the potential climatic effects of the global increase in energy production.
Then I must also recognize that there is an increasing worldwide demand for energy and that the need and capacity for energy saving measures is limited to those countries which have sufficient supplies of energy available.
Anyone who does not recognize this must have a rather provincial outlook.
And those who do acknowledge it must also accept the various options available to meet our energy requirements.
Those of us who seriously believe in the careful exploitation of our natural resources, and who do not wish to see major climate changes, cannot sacrifice any of the options to blinkered ideology.
Neither can we do without energysaving products and energy-saving technologies.
Nor without renewable energies, the use of hydroelectric power, solar energy, and not even without nuclear fission, Mr Tannert, provided that it is deployed responsibly, and the future application of nuclear fusion.
To forgo any of these options for ideological reasons would, in my opinion, be downright stupid.
