Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament is today holding its second debate on the enlargement of the European Union by ten states from central and eastern Europe and Cyprus.
On 16 July the European Commission introduced its Agenda 2000 and we discussed it on the same day.
Today we are debating on the basis of the reports by our colleagues, Arie Oostlander and Enrique Barón Crespo, and I would like to talk about these two reports.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party to express very sincere thanks to Mr Oostlander and Mr Barón Crespo for their difficult and excellent work!
The people of Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania, of Poland, the Czech Republic, Slovakia, Hungary, Slovenia, Bulgaria and Rumania would like to belong to the European Union because they share our convictions and ideals for Europe in the 21st Century, in order, as stated in the Treaty of Rome of 1957, and I quote: "... to lay the foundations for an ever closer union ... (and) ... by thus pooling their resources to preserve and strengthen peace and liberty ...' .
This wish is shared not only by the people in the five countries which the Commission has proposed for entry negotiations but also by the people in all ten states of central and eastern Europe which are associated with the European Union by European Agreements.
Let us not forget that in 1989-90 it was the people of the states of central and eastern Europe who by their desire for freedom, their struggle for democracy, their desire for a market economy made possible the change in our continent, and we must not disappoint these people, who engendered the peaceful revolution in Europe, by the decision which we take now.
(Applause) These are people in central and eastern Europe who live as we do in a free society and therefore the Group of the European People's Party is convinced that all Europeans have a political and moral right to live in security, peace and freedom.
Therefore for us the First Commandment is that entry negotiations must begin.
We must not discriminate against any country and let us not be so arrogant as to say what discrimination is, rather let us hear how these people themselves might feel discriminated against by our decisions.
We must therefore make our decisions so as to encourage these States, these people, to carry forward this difficult and frequently painful process of reform in anticipation of entry to the European Union.
The people need encouragement.
Therefore the Group of the European People's Party calls upon the Heads of State and of Government at the Summit on 12 and 13 December in Luxembourg to send a signal to the peoples of central and eastern Europe that they belong to the European family and that they will grow step by step into the community of nations of the European Union.
The Group of the European People's Party passed unanimous resolutions on 1 October and 26 November in Brussels and then at its congress in Toulouse on 11 November 1997.
The discussions, and I agree with Mr Swoboda, were very difficult, but we finally reached unanimous resolutions and recommend the following process for enlargement: first, an intensified accession and negotiation process with the central and eastern European countries which meet the political conditions for membership, together with Cyprus, should begin in 1998; secondly: intensive negotiations on an individual basis should be pursued with those countries which have made most progress; thirdly, an enlargement dialogue, in which the candidate countries participate, should create an informal network, in order to discuss all areas of European Union policy; fourthly: the European Conference proposed by the Commission can be a useful instrument of cooperation in order, in particular, to strengthen relations with Turkey.
The process of enlargement is becoming difficult and there are many stones in the path to enlargement which must be cleared away by the applicant countries but also by the European Union itself, which must prepare itself via the necessary institutional and political reforms for enlargement.
We should not just talk about the tasks the applicant countries must perform.
We should also be talking about the tasks which we ourselves as the European Union have to perform, because we want enlargement to lead to a strengthening of the European Union and therefore we must make this European Union more capable of action, we must make it more democratic, so that the peoples of central and eastern Europe will enter a Union enables all Europeans to achieve a stable future for the entire 21st Century.
We, the European Parliament, which today represents 370 million people must be the advocate of the peoples of the whole of Europe.
If we are not the advocate then who will be?
We, the Members, must be the advocate.
Europe is not just the European Union of today!
We must work to ensure that the peoples of central and eastern Europe with whom we want to begin the intensified accession and negotiation process at the start of 1998, also send their representatives step by step to the European Parliament.
The European Parliament, where we are now, here in Brussels - we have just moved into the new offices - is certainly much too big to be merely a European Parliament for the European Union of today!
We must open up this Parliament!
Let us work together to ensure that as soon as possible in the next decade, which will also be a new century and a new millennium, we will be able to welcome freely elected representatives from central and eastern Europe here in the European Parliament.
A few years ago this idea was still utopian.
Today it is not even a vision any more but a probability which will soon become a reality if we ourselves are committed to work for it.
The Group of the European People's Party sets itself this historic task for our old continent of Europe, which is constantly renewing itself.
(Applause)
