Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not so long ago that we discussed here in Strasbourg a second reading of the directive on the development of postal services.
At the time I tabled two amendments on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, which dealt with the problem of terminal dues.
Sadly, the House - unwisely, I have to say - did not take up our proposals.
It must be our aim - and I am surely in agreement with the Commissioner here - to allow competition into the European Union, that is to say to let the rules of competition apply here too.
This is not possible, however, if a worldwide agreement, namely the Universal Postal Agreement, is employed to deal with the issue of terminal dues.
It is the basis of this agreement that incoming and outgoing mail cancel each other out and thereby create a national balance.
We do not have this situation within the European Union any longer.
The single market also means - and we have found this with other deregulations - that the costs of using the services must be recovered, be it with the single electricity market and transmission rights or in the area of telecommunications and the interconnector problem.
Only where postal services are concerned are competition and the single market to carry on being ignored by a nonsensical provision.
That is why the Group of the European People's Party is asking the Commission to tell us whether it will be addressing this problem, for example, in the notice to apply the rules of competition to the postal services?
Will it also be addressing these concerns in the next postal directive, which will affect internet access, when we will be in the thick of the issue?
Is it actually aware what it means to have to provide services that exceed each costing, while at the same time being locked in trade with competitors who do not have these liabilities?
Europe's postal services just cannot function in this way.
Mr Commissioner, if you do not succeed in solving this problem, you will not only put countless jobs at risk, but you will also compromise the postal provision we have agreed on in this House.
