Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a declared aim of European policy is to make up for the dangerous, and by now almost permanent, way in which Europe is lagging behind the USA and Japan in terms of innovation.
Yet research comes before all technological innovation and, sadly, there is a lot of truth in the saying that the Europeans are good at making knowledge out of ECUs, but bad at making ECUs out of knowledge.
The Commission wants to change this through an increase in funds, concentration and greater flexibility.
This is apparent in its proposal for the fifth framework programme.
Where it is consistent, we support it.
Where it fails to keep its promises, we criticize it.
It is right to drastically reduce the number of subject-based programmes, and it is wrong to want to minister to virtually every particular interest.
Of course we cannot compensate for the decline in research sponsorship in the Member States through our budgetary allocations, but we can create considerable incentives for effective cooperation within the European scientific community and in collaboration with third countries.
This is of general political significance, too, for this European Union and its enlargement.
What we as socialists definitely do not want to see is a reduction in the amount of cooperation and coordination achieved in the area of European research and technological development.
Renationalization is the wrong response to the global challenges in research policy too.
My group is prepared to give the clear signals required, and in the budget for this programme if need be.
We have made compromises with the conservative side of this House.
The position reached on the budget is for us the minimum consensus.
It is very close to our pain threshold.
However, you do not need the gift of prophecy to predict that, without a strong parliamentary majority, we will be at a disadvantage vis-à-vis the Council, and that is why we will be voting in favour.
We find ourselves in a time of global changes affecting all areas of life.
In particular, the stormy developments taking place in information technology and biotechnology are going to radically alter our lives.
Hence associated social research is of major importance.
My group does not want to write this into the framework programme with just so many empty words, but rather give it a concrete shape and fund it properly.
Our proposals for this were rejected in the Research Committee by a slight majority.
Even after conservative colleagues had come out in favour of a socioeconomic campaign, especially on the subject of the information society, they could not resist the temptation to use their fortuitous majority on the day to reject this sensible amendment.
This was a mistake.
Let us put it right through, among other things, visibly improved funding for the programme's fourth line of action, namely so-called human resources.
Let me say a few words on the Euratom programme, even if Parliament is still being consulted on it.
The Euratom treaty was successful.
It brought the Community considerable autonomy in energy provision, and this autonomy can be enjoyed today in the medium term using other forms of energy in an economical and environmentally compatible manner, and a lot less dangerously too.
For this reason, the majority of socialists are in favour of switching over.
There are only three areas that can be sensibly and profitably pursued, specifically research into the safety of existing reactors, research into the substitution of C02 -neutral energy sources and research into the safe disposal of radioactive waste.
The budget should be arranged accordingly.
Let me conclude by extending my personal thanks to the rapporteur.
She has worked hard.
She has quite literally worked out a lot of important compromises.
For this, much thanks.
I think her achievement should be acknowledged through the adoption of our few, but sound and necessary, amendments.
Then we can adopt the report as a whole by an impressive majority.
