Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission and Council, if the work of the treaty were to be appraised in one idea, then it might be said of it, drawing on the words of the German poet Bertolt Brecht, that it involves 'moderate progress' .
Bertolt Brecht meant this very cynically and critically.
Certainly, you can convey this element; you can also be very positive and say that it is progress.
We should not deceive ourselves, however, into thinking that the progress is too slight when measured against the demands that this House makes.
How does the citizen of Europe regard the European Union after the Treaty of Amsterdam?
The citizen of Europe sees that we will be arguing and debating hotly in the near future because in many cases we have not succeeded in moving from the principle of unanimous voting to majority voting.
That is a crucial task which we need to put right with the next reform, so that Parliament can slowly arrive at the position it really deserves.
Secondly, there is an aspect I am constantly experiencing in the area of foreign policy: the citizen of Europe sees that here there is a large continent that produces a lot, pays a lot, but has very little say in the matter, because it does not speak with one voice, but with many voices compared with the single voice that comes from America.
We surely need to correct this.
My final point: Mr President, how are things to proceed from here?
Mr Rack and many others have already stated - and you will find this too in the report from Mr Tsatsos and Mr Méndez de Vigo - that things need to be different.
There is a need for this House, that is for the voice of the people, to express a greater willingness to reform!
For this was the way things were after Amsterdam: each head of government went home and said, ' Amsterdam was a great success.
I gave away nothing.
We did nothing for Europe, and I saved my home country.'
That is why Parliament, which represents the higher interests, must play a greater role in future.
In this respect I would like to thank the rapporteurs Mr Tsatsos and Mr Méndez de Vigo for their excellent report as a starting point for new reform, which must express more strength and more desire for a common ground.
