Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the granting of asylum to political refugees, the acceptance of citizens from former colonies and the reception of people on telling humanitarian grounds are among the tasks which the European Union has undertaken since the Second World War.
Since 1989 this range of tasks has received a new dimension, because large numbers of people have been arriving in western Europe from central and eastern european countries and the states of the former Soviet Union for economic reasons.
Political action is urgently required.
The governments of Member States of the European Union have raised asylum, immigration and border trespass to the status of subjects of special common interest.
Member States are convinced that requirements in this field can only be met effectively and sensibly by joint action.
Although there is consensus on this, Member States are hesitant about relinquishing authority to the European Union, despite the many statements about it.
Previous agreements, particularly the Dublin Agreement, can only be looked on as a first, small step.
Major effort and the will to find a common solution are necessary in order to fulfill the ambitious aims of the Treaty of Amsterdam, which provides in the medium term for the so-called communalization of the subjects involved.
This common measure which lies before us can be viewed, therefore, as a sign that the Council and Commission are prepared to undertake further efforts in this direction.
For this they can be sure of the support of the European Parliament, which, despite the late consultation and short time for processing the matter, has been able to produce a complete and comprehensive report on the Odysseus programme.
It is important to us that Parliament's opinion is particularly represented at the Luxembourg summit and can be included in it.
It has based its views on the relevant Maastricht Treaty decisions concerning the European Union, but has always born the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam in mind.
The European Parliament, therefore, would value being kept informed in detail on the progress of Odysseus, particularly where one year plans are concerned.
It should also be possible for a list of priorities to be circulated, so that its items can be included in the one year plan.
The Odysseus programme sets new standards of cooperation between Member States regarding asylum, immigration and exterior border trespass.
The laws and procedures continue to be very varied.
The aim of Odysseus is to bring them closer together.
It is not the intention, however, for Member States to be brought closer by means of unified legislation, but by learning from one another by example.
That will take place at the level of the officials who have to implement the regulations.
They will not just become better informed by means of the projects sponsored by Odysseus, but will also learn how other Member States solve certain problems.
It is valuable, for instance, to learn about the laws in different countries on uniting families.
This can make clear that there are many valid solutions to one particular problem.
I am assuming, therefore, that acceptance of the European Union's existing legislation in these fields will spread after the training of supporters within the Odysseus programme.
Participants in the projects will then have knowledge available for use during the communication phase.
I would expressly ask Member States to use this opportunity.
It is much to be welcomed that countries applying for EU membership can also participate in the programme.
In this way they will be given specific programme information about the institutional systems as well as the legal and administrative systems of participating Member States.
This will, on the one hand, lead them closer to the standards of the Union, and, on the other, make cooperation with them in these areas much easier.
The regulations in Member States for data protection must be safeguarded in the practical application of the programme.
Only anonymous case histories taken from routine experience should be used in training exercises.
Officials taking part in exchange visits who come into contact with original documents must be bound to secrecy about their contents.
The Odysseus programme is based on experience gained from pilot projects in the Sherlock programme, which is now to be integrated into it.
During its five year duration further useful experience will be gained, and this is to find constant reflection in the one year planning.
Not only will Odysseus gain special value from this, but Odysseus and the common measure for protection of refugees also show that policies in these fields do not have to mean the destruction of Fortress Europe.
On the contrary, these projects mean there is a chance for officials to see once again that there is a human element to their decisions.
They bear just as much responsibility as any politician for seeing that people entering the European Union for political, economic or other motives are treated in a manner worthy of human beings.
In the one year planning, therefore, the Commission should ensure provision for training, exchanges, research - not just in technical matters - and the checking of forged papers.
Theoretical subjects, such as the rights of persons affected by administrative acts to information, legal advice and family unification, as well as, most especially, the rights of minors, must be covered.
Certain NGOs have gained special expertise in this, and that should also be utilized as part of Odysseus.
It is important, therefore, for ONACR and other inter-state institutions such as the International Organization for Migration to be encouraged to participate in these projects.
Europe sees itself as the cradle of human rights.
It also bears great international responsibility for refugees' rights.
Odysseus is a programme that can play apart in allowing Europe to live up to these responsibilities.
