Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Commission's proposal is an attack on lovers of chocolate.
They want chocolate to remain chocolate.
They do not want substitute chocolate, but genuine chocolate made from cocoa butter.
Chocolate made with synthetic fats, such as soybean and rapeseed oil, does not just stick in the throats of gourmets, but approval of these ersatz materials would have disastrous consequences in developing countries, because demand there would fall away.
They also mean a blatant breaking of the undertaking in the Cocoa Agreement back in 1993, in which the Union promised to encourage the use of cocoa.
Producers planted their cocoa trees then in the expectation of the Agreement being met.
About one tenth of global cocoa bean production would fail to find a buyer.
The European Parliament must insist on clear designation.
Members of the Committee on Environment simply wanted to ensure that synthetic vegetable fats in chocolate were recorded in the constituents list, but we know that only 4 % of consumers ever read the small print.
We consider that the mature consumer should be allowed to make his own choice.
Our amendment has as its objective, therefore, that this fact is clearly printed on the product, so that the consumer can make his choice.
Anything else is quite unacceptable to us, such as if the identification were merely to be included in the small print of the contents list.
We also reject the use of substitute materials made from chemicals or gene technology.
We know that chocolate is a substitute drug, but we want no substitute materials in chocolate.
The European Parliament is now challenged not to cow-tow to the substitute foods industry, but to stand up for the purity regulation with regard to chocolate.
That has to be the position of the European Parliament!
Harmonization is right, but it has to be in the right direction.
Instead of using low value substitutes and instead of accepting a consequent increase in indebtedness amongst developing countries, we must maintain high standards of quality and cocoa imports.
