Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the report by Mr Decourrière can, in my view, in any case be characterized as objective.
It also contains, however, the urgent appeal to Belgium to make better use of structural resources in future.
After all, we are talking here about more than ECU 2 billion.
The figures are not, in my opinion at this point in time the most important thing.
If one reads Mr Decourrière's report it becomes clear that the use of the resources at the moment is relatively slight.
But we must not forget that there is an important phase before such use, that is, the programming.
This report makes it clear that the programming phase represents, for those who have to carry it out, a binding programme for the future.
Of course I consider that an objective 1 area with approximately 50 % cofinancing was bound to present a problem.
Where the area is already structurally weak the support from the European Union must be more intensive.
Otherwise they could have made the Hennegau a better objective 2 area.
As far as cofinancing is concerned, in the initial stages there should be stricter controls on the partnership in the cofinancing.
It is unacceptable for the programme to be put together by three or four people and then the active forces in an area have to be brought into organize a cofinancing.
Here I believe that the Commission, with due regard for the principle of subsidiarity must intervene more effectively, so that even in the programming phase all the partners sit round a table and all sign up to these programmes.
On the question of actual implementation: of course there are areas in which the implementation is already at this moment in time relatively good.
It is not a matter of having spent a great deal of money so far, but that the money has also been well spent.
In this respect I would like to address two principles.
The first principle is that if we create jobs we must also be sure that they are permanent jobs.
If, in certain spheres, and I am thinking of the middle class, subsidies are distributed on a quick, short term basis, I would almost say sprayed from a watering can, then we have to be able to check - and that too is the task of the Commission - that these jobs have also contributed to the subsequent stability of a region.
We must also create the pre-conditions.
This is revealed clearly by Mr Decourrière's report, that is, that an area can only become attractive if it first removes the existing ruins.
It is not my intention to go into the examples already present in Belgium, but the attractiveness of a region and the job creation will also depend on how things look in a region.
Resources are provided for this and they must be used more intensively.
I come from a border area and I know what minor relocations mean.
Madam Commissioner, you must consider that it is a question of the credibility of the structural fund if even today we are financing the destruction of jobs.
I shall explain this statement.
In my view it is unacceptable that certain companies leave objective 2 Areas, as happened in the Verviers area in the case of Boston Scientific, wander off into objective 1 areas, making jobs disappear en route and yet still get money for their investment elsewhere in Europe!
That is the financing of destruction.
It must not be seen on a regional or national level, but on a Europe-wide level.
For the next structural funds it is therefore not only their credibility which is at risk but also the economic stability of the regions of Europe!
