Mr President, as a Czech Bishop from Northern Bohemia used to say, to love one's neighbour would be a wonderful thing, if only the neighbour did not live so terribly close!
That is exactly the problem with Macedonia.
Macedonia is a small country with various neighbours and a very complicated history, and it has repeatedly been in danger of being overwhelmed by this history.
So we will be all the happier both now and in the future if our Parliament says yes to this agreement, which will represent a breakthrough in accepting this country into the community of Europeans, a country which has contributed a great deal to our history and culture, and will also make a great contribution to the future of Europe.
Nevertheless, the problems remain acute.
We only have to think, as my colleague Mr Pons Grau has mentioned, about the problems of the ethnic Albanians in Macedonia, but who mentions the fact that this is directly connected with the Kosovo problem, the fact that the oppression of Kosovo led to the extremely difficult situation at the Albanian University in Tetovo in Macedonia?
This is just one example that demonstrates how various different issues are closely interwoven in this region.
Therefore we owe it to this country to offer it unambiguous support on the path to Europe, and above all we must make sure that the freedom and independence of this country are safeguarded.
We have talked about Asia today, and quite rightly so, but it would be a pity if we talked about Asia without being able to solve elementary European problems.
The country of Macedonia would not even exist today if the United States of America had not begun to defend that country's independence in the face of possible Serbian aggression.
When one considers the forces currently involved in taking over power in Serbia, it is a question of out of the frying pan, into the fire, and there is a risk of renewed massive conflict.
It is therefore high time that we concluded this trade and cooperation agreement after years of blockade.
We must support the forces of democracy in this country.
We should not reproach this country for failings in the reform process, because logic dictates that when there is external pressure it is incredibly difficult to carry out internal reforms at the same time.
For that reason it is impressive that reform has taken place to such an amazing extent at all, but we need to intensify the process.
Above all, we need to agree that the next stage, that is an association agreement and Europe agreement, should follow as quickly as possible.
Slovenia needed three years to take this step, and I believe that Macedonia should not have to wait any longer.
