Madam President, Madam Commissioner, though the road to Kyoto has been a long and stony one, the outcome, namely the Kyoto internal agreements, has provided us with a ladder up which we will have to climb in eleven months, before we are ready for the next conference in Argentina.
The climb will be a difficult one for the European Union, since we have a double load to bear.
For one thing we in the Community have to set about changing the proposals which were made by the Commission, with an eye on the Kyoto proposal of three gases and 15 %, to six gases, which are now new.
I too believe that we should stick with our ambitious target.
We must also make a new proposal for the European bubble, which in my opinion should be retained, because I believe that it is good to have a joint model for the individual countries of the European Union and together to bear the burden of emission reduction, modernisation and the modification and renovation of our industrial society.
If the European bubble is to be credible, we need a legislative process which goes beyond the mere coordination of individual national measures.
But above all, we need this common European legislation to stop other countries using the EU bubble as an excuse for running an emissions trading business which saves them the trouble of making any emission reductions themselves, and this at the expense of developing countries who actually need their own reduction quotas.
Madam Commissioner, I believe that we should also revise our existing legislation and policies so that they are in line with this objective for the reduction of environmental emissions.
Other members have referred to renewable energies, energy saving measures and so forth, and to this I would like to add my own remarks.
In addition to a new agricultural policy, we are going to have to consider a new forestry policy, especially if we are serious about tackling the problem of what to do with the credits which are to be made for reafforestation, and not to trail behind other countries but rather to forge ahead with our own proposals and initiatives.
I believe that we must draw up international proposals which set out the next course of action and define the rules governing emissions trading and joint implementation; these rules should be clear, verifiable, reconstructible and fair.
As well as offering my congratulations to those involved in the outcome of Kyoto, I therefore wish to express the hope that in the new year we shall all find the strength to accomplish the task ahead of the Buenos Aires conference, and I hope in all sincerity that here the support of Parliament will be called upon much more than in the past, for together we can achieve much more for the environment than we ever could by acting in isolation.
