Madam President, basically everything has been said in the debate.
We all wish that at the end of a process eleven eastern European states and Cyprus will be members of the European Union, and we know that not all will enter at the same point in time.
We have found a compromise between the regatta model and five plus one.
Therefore, I would summarize it as follows: if lack of clarity is a feature of good policy then we shall win a prize for good policy with what we decide tomorrow!
You notice the irony; I hope it also comes across in the translation.
If of course the New Testament is to be taken as a guideline when it says your words should be yes and no, then tomorrow we shall fail!
Well, that is politics.
What I found lacking in the debate is a reference to the fact that the European Council will set in motion a process in the course of which we must find the answers to three questions.
We must find those answers, I tell you!
The first question is: how big can Europe become?
The European Union cannot be extended to infinity.
We are however acting as if it could irrespective of whether or not that is in the interest of the Union or in the interest of other states.
We talk of not putting up barriers at the start of negotiations, and we do not mention that during the process, when one joins and the other does not, much higher barriers will be erected.
We do not talk about that!
The second question is how expensive may Europe become?
We are here throwing around billions and percentages!
We also know that we must not calculate small-mindedly, that we must not only add up what entry costs but we must also add up what non-entry costs.
All that is true.
But we must also know more clearly than hitherto that there are limits to the loads which can be borne by the Member States and by the population of the Member States.
I say to everyone in advance: if it is a question of making sacrifices in the sphere of agricultural policy, if it is a question of making sacrifices in the sphere of the structural funds then all the Member States and all our colleagues from the corresponding Member States here will speak a completely different language than that being used in many contributions to today's debate!
The third question of principle is: how strong is Europe becoming?
Or, how strong must Europe become in order to cope with enlargement?
On this point, I tell you, what is described in the Treaty of Amsterdam is in any case too little, as we all know.
With the consequences of what we decide in our resolutions on the reform of the treaty, we are nowhere near as advanced as we really ought to be if we are talking about a stronger Union.
Where were the Member States in the past?
Where were our colleagues who now talk about the Union having to become stronger and deeper?
Where were they in the past, when it was a question of making sure that concrete progress was made, in Maastricht for example?
I did not see them there!
The states in eastern Europe basically have an easier task than ours.
They start from a position which from their point of view is very bad and they want to develop into members of the European Union.
Everything they do is basically a step in that direction.
Our situation is much more difficult.
We must ensure that they can join us and at the same time ensure that what we have achieved in the past 40 years is preserved.
To combine both things is a much more difficult process than just concentrating on entry.
A final point which I shall phrase in very general terms: the generation of politicians of the 1950's had the courage and the foresight to remove the thousand-year-old antagonism between France and Germany in a European Community.
Our generation of politicians will have to develop the courage and foresight to give the whole continent, for the first time in a thousand years, an organization of peace and cooperation.
Here we must be alert.
The courage and foresight of the 1950s' generation of politicians consisted of making progress, not with all European states, not even with all the states in the west, but with those which were ready and able.
Their courage and foresight consisted of holding fast to the goal of a United States of Europe.
To set themselves intermediate goals which were achievable in single steps, that was a sign of the courage and foresight of this generation.
I am eager to find out whether we in this Parliament and also our Heads of State and of Government can produce the same courage and foresight.
The opportunity is there, do not let is pass us by unused!
