Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Madam Commissioner.
Even if the various opinions expressed do not always totally coincide, the European Parliament seems to consider that it has already said the last word on the need for clear and full labelling of foodstuffs and ingredients affected by genetic engineering.
If that were true, today's debate would be superfluous and a repetitive waste of time.
However, my view and that of my group is that this debate is urgently needed.
We are unhappy about the way the Commission is handling the sensitive subject of labelling genetically modified foods and the scant regard it pays - sometimes at least - to Council and Parliament regulations.
We as Members of the European Parliament are being criticized from all quarters when it is the Commission which is actually at fault.
The European Commission has let our citizens down by causing confusion about the labelling of genetically modified foods.
It is not acceptable to stipulate justifiably demanded labelling requirements in a regulation and then not implement the regulation.
As a consumer, I assumed back at the beginning of this year that we had passed a turning point with the novel foods regulation.
I assumed that novel, and in particular technically modified, foodstuffs would be clearly and fully labelled.
Not a bit of it!
The relevant products containing genetically modified maize and soya are no longer considered new.
The attempt to improve matters by means of the Regulation that came into force on 1 November has not helped.
It does not include the guidelines on implementation needed to ensure a uniform protection level throughout the European Union and legal certainty for manufacturers and traders.
And it gets worse.
Regulation 81/13 will not even come into force, instead it will be replaced by a further amended version.
How can you explain all this to the average consumer?
Madam Commissioner, I believe that the type of labelling that you have described is correct.
But you have not answered the following questions: why could it not actually come into force on 1 November, given that we had been discussing the novel foods regulation and labelling for over five years?
There was time enough for preparatory discussions and clarification, even if it was not quite clear at the outset what form it would take.
But it was always evident that labelling would and must come.
So why was that not possible?
Why is it not possible until 1 February or even March, when so many new products will already be on the market?
If this regulation does come into force then, will it apply to products which are new at that time?
This issue has not been resolved at all.
I would ask you not to forget the third point, the problems surrounding methods of detection and analysis.
Suitable methods do in fact exist for detecting genetic modification of maize and soya products.
So even if it is slow to act, the Commission has no justification for denying consumers any longer a comprehensive labelling system consistent across all Member States.
From the consumer's point of view, there is now nothing to stop comprehensive labelling of our food, and it has everything going for it.
That is why my group is being so tenacious about this.
Consumers ought to be making purchasing decisions armed with proper information, not at the mercy of bureaucrats.
