Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there is an old German nursery rhyme which loosely translates as: ' I ride with the mail, I ride with the post.
I ride with the snail mail, there's no cost.'
As for the speed at which legislation for the postal services has proceeded, I am very much reminded of the 'snail mail' .
Things have really only progressed at a snail's pace.
All this would be acceptable if the directive had been drawn up on the principle of 'all good things are worth waiting for' .
Yet things have not turned out so well and considerable problems still remain.
On the one hand, the Council's decision is so weakly formulated that each Member State can read from it what they will.
Then there is the Commission's notice left ominously unresolved.
As far as I know, the notice planned makes the principles of the directive obsolete, and to that extent I consider it redundant.
The question of terminal dues for cross-border mail has not been resolved in the postal services directive.
So far it has always been claimed that the operators could be left to negotiate and solve the problem themselves without the need for legislation.
That is the way things stand, but nothing has been settled.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists is therefore calling for a legal ruling from the Commission.
It cannot be in the spirit of fair competition if letters can be sent from one country which on account of its good infrastructure and situation can offer cheap postal rates, while another country with a labour-intensive postal delivery service is encumbered with the greater expenditure - and you said yourself, Mr Bangemann, that only 80 % of the costs are covered - without appropriate compensation being made.
This tempts mail service users to send their letters into the country with cheap postage, while the actual country of origin is left with the costs.
Such remailing is an extremely unfair trade practice and it must be stopped.
It is not enough to invoke the Universal Postal Agreement.
There is a section on this in article 13 of the postal services directive, but here the Member States are only advised to ensure that in their agreements on the terminal dues involved in cross-border intra-Community post the following principles are observed.
Then the principles are described.
The single market cannot run purely on advice tendered in regard to a possible agreement.
Even if Reims II is to happen, this still is not enough.
We need clarity and legal certainty for all concerned, and it is the duty of the Commission to provide an efficient single market.
That is why we are looking for a directive proposal and do not want to have to wait so long for it.
What the Commission must not do when preparing the directive, however, is gear its speed to that of the snail mail.
