Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to join in expressing my gratitude for the good report, which is important, but also very complex.
I would also like to thank the Commission because, in this report, it has once again grasped and accentuated the consensus view of this House, by attaching the same importance to flexibility and social security as to boosting competition and employment.
It is important for us because we want to defend and extend this European social model, which is built on solidarity and consensus.
I also find it interesting that the Commission has presented us here with a variety of models and proposals.
What I miss, though, is an action plan.
And I am not on my own in this, for this action plan has been requested by all speakers in this House.
There is, however, a huge gap between insight and the action needed.
I would like to stress a few points here.
Firstly - as has been stated - there is the question of further and continued education.
We want to assist the SMEs in assuring and improving quality because we know they are not always in the position to create the necessary conditions either technically or in terms of human resources.
I would also like to mention - which has partly been forgotten - that further education is needed for our management too.
My second point concerns equal opportunities for women.
The Commission's Green Paper overlooks one or two things here.
We have been used to better things from you in the past, and I would ask you to study the statement from the Committee on Women's Rights, which is attached to this report and which we all support.
My third point concerns the modernization of job organization.
This involves greater worker participation, more cooperation and codetermination and not less.
Finally it should be noted that the Green Paper has taken up many of the suggestions from the European Parliament in the last few years.
We are now ready and willing to turn them into reality together with the Commission and the Council.
