Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, from the point of view of the Committee on Transport and Tourism I can continue seamlessly from what the previous speaker said.
We in the Committee on Transport and Tourism also fear that in 1998 we will receive more statements and White Papers than specific legislative proposals.
We regret that, and I hope, Commissioner, that you will talk again to your colleagues and persuade them to rethink.
I will just take an example from the transport field.
There we are supposed to receive a statement about the environment and air transport.
No, Commissioner, we want a quite specific proposal on improving the environmental compatibility of air transport.
We want to talk to you about that, but not in a general debate about the environment and air transport!
I won't say that that is another cover-up, but it is the lack of courage of the Commission to submit something specific.
But perhaps the Commission is just afraid of the Council, because the Council always pushes unpleasant stories in front of it.
Road use charges have been pushed backwards and forwards for six months, and they still are.
But, Commissioner, it is better that we, the Commission and Parliament tell the Council, "here is the proposed law, confess your inactivity' than that the Commission, prematurely obedient, makes no proposals at all, but sends another statement as food for thought.
But I will take up a second subject which a previous speaker has already mentioned, and cover it in the transport field.
We need specific legislative proposals about how, four years after the completion of the internal market, traffic should be regulated from the social point of view.
We have always said that harmonization and liberalization must go together.
We have driven liberalization forward very well to a large extent, but harmonization of social, technical and tax conditions for transport is still outstanding.
I only say that many railway strikes in France, many lorry strikes in other Member States are linked to the fact that people have the feeling that the Commission owes us proposals for the promised harmonization of conditions, particularly in the social field.
A third field about which I would like to remind you: We have asked the Commission twice in the last year to submit to us within a year - to that extent you still have time, Mr Oreja, but only until February - a quite specific proposal for the calculation of external costs of transport.
We said as Parliament with an overwhelming majority: Yes, we want to internalize external costs, but we need calculation methods for all types of transport, not just for lorries, because even a nice railway produces dirt and noise, and so do many aeroplanes.
We therefore asked the Commission to submit to us the external costs of all types of transport on a demonstrably scientific basis, so that we can then internalize the external costs of all types of transport simultaneously.
But as I know the Commission - here I take up what the previous speaker said - the Commission knew that, but there is not a word about it in the legislative programme.
And if we are not careful, the Commission will say at the end of 1998 that unfortunately it has had no time.
The last field: I would like to ask the Commission, although it is clearly not guilty here, and although the Council has again refused to support tourism, to consider in the next year how it can carry out a subsidiary, accompanying support for tourism on the basis of existing policies and programmes, because tourism ensures and creates more jobs and economic growth in the Community than the whole of agriculture.
Therefore, small and medium-sized companies in particular deserve support for tourism, and we ask for your support on this point.
