Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the third German joins the criticism of the two previous speakers.
The Commission - I will not put it as drastically as my colleague Mrs Roth-Behrendt, but I want to do it with a bit more refinement, Mr Oreja - the Commission could be more active.
I will narrow it down to the field of internal policy in the European Union.
If the Commission does not become more active, it contributes by its passivity to strengthening more and more a dangerous development which has begun in the European Union, that is the immense remoteness from democracy which is gaining ground in this Union.
I do not become tired of showing this Chamber that the Council - and particularly certain Member States - block things.
We heard yesterday from Mrs Gradin that some initiatives of the Commission failed because of the veto of states which were not named yesterday, but we know which Member States they are.
The Council is accustomed to a policy which goes like this.
More and more matters, particularly those which are awkward from the point of view of internal politics at national level, are slowly but surely transferred to Europe, so that the domestic political front can be told that that has gone to Brussels, that is no longer anything to do with us!
But when they arrive in Brussels, these things remain in the inter-governmental area and are not passed to the European Parliament, even in accordance with the construction of the Treaty of Amsterdam, not as the legislative Chamber and very often not even for consultation.
They are thus practically removed from the democratic control of the national parliaments, and not transferred to that of the European Parliament.
This democratic deficit becomes quite difficult when institutions which acquire rights to intervene in basic civil liberties are created.
I do not need to repeat the Europol debate.
For instance, if, as we have read in the last few days, data from the Schengen information system is sold to organized crime, I ask who is really controlling responsibility?
Who controls these organizations?
Neither the national parliaments nor us!
Commissioner Gradin yesterday impressively presented to us how weakly she is staffed in this area of the Commission.
This shows that the Commission has only taken responsibility for this subject insufficiently.
But just because, unlike us, it has the right of initiative, and could take initiatives to implement freedom of movement within the European Union for instance, it should do so more strongly.
The Monti initiatives no longer appear in the legislative programme.
Those were the last initiatives which the Commission took to put into effect the freedom of movement of citizens which was provided in the Treaty of Amsterdam and the Single Act, but which was not put into effect within the strategy of the Council.
The Commission took initiatives.
As I said, these no longer appear in its working programme.
Have more courage, then Parliament will support you at all levels!
