Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not regard the ban on tobacco advertising as the right means for protecting public health.
The general opinion envisages not only a total ban on the advertising of tobacco products but also a total ban on indirect advertising, for example for Camel boots or Davidoff cosmetics.
The only exceptions apply to Greece, which was the price paid for Greece's agreement and thus for achieving the necessary majority in the Council of Ministers against the votes of Germany and Austria, with Denmark and Spain abstaining.
A ban is the strictest of all conceivable instruments in a liberal economic system.
Before legal requirements of this kind are enacted, they must be considered in the light of whether they are really suitable as a means for achieving the declared objective, namely the protection of public health.
A ban on tobacco advertising gives rise to hopes and expectations which cannot be fulfilled.
No-one can dispute that smoking is harmful and often leads to death.
That is why it would be logical, and here I agree with Mrs Roth-Berendt, to ban the manufacture of harmful products such as cigarettes.
In a liberal economy, advertising does an important job in providing information, and it is a potent instrument for effective competition.
It ought, as a matter of principle, to be possible to advertise products which are legally manufactured and distributed and legally consumed.
A total ban on tobacco advertising is an attack on the liberal economic system.
Once this first domino falls, the rest will follow.
I should like to ask Commissioner Flynn if it is true that there is a Commission document which states that motor vehicles are freely available industrial products which are often prove lethal.
Because there is no European legislation in the context of health policy for such far-reaching interventions, even under the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Council and the Commission often resort to the harmonization instrument known as competition, despite their own better judgement.
We want to construct an internal market, and we want to make a political decision as to who is permitted to advertise freely offered products, and who is not.
This proposal has exactly the opposite effect.
We await with eager expectation the predictable complaints from Member States to the European Court of Justice.
