Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the present common position on which we shall be voting tomorrow is better than its reputation.
I see no grounds for euphoria, and, in contrast to Mr Rothley, I am also of the opinion that one or two things could perhaps be even better formulated, but the text on which we shall be voting tomorrow is better than the text which a majority of the Parliament rejected in February 1995.
There have been very many improvements, and I believe that the Parliament had good reasons to vote against it at that time, but now we have equally good reasons to resist calls for the rejection of the common position.
At that time, the clear exclusion of manipulation of the gene sequence was missing.
The common position contains this clear exclusion of the breeding of human beings through intervention in the human gene sequence.
At that time, we had a very woolly formulation on the farmers' privilege.
Now we have a stronger formulation.
As far as patients are concerned, I must really caution against using their support for any particular position.
There are some patient associations which support the directive and there are others which oppose it.
Both have good reasons.
Nobody here in Parliament can claim with a clear conscience that it will have any particular effect on research into medicine X or medicine Y. Certain serious scientists argue for the one position, and other equally serious scientists argue for the other, and we should not let ourselves get carried away with polemics, as have some of our colleagues.
We should see this directive for what it is, an internal market directive and a directive dealing with economic factors and unemployment.
However, we should spare no efforts in pointing out the ethically motivated limits that have been set, to which the Parliament has always attached importance.
Because in contrast to what the Green Group is claiming, it is just not true that we want to create jobs through cloning, but through possible applications in the field of gene technology which are ethically undisputed in the view of the majority in this House and, I believe, the majority of European citizens as well.
However, we must formulate these ethically motivated limitations very clearly.
That is why I am pleased that in the common position the Council has arrived at a very far-reaching formulation on cloning.
The cloning experiment on Dolly the sheep and the publication of this experiment have caused legitimate fear amongst many people in Europe and elsewhere.
The cloning of human beings is not a fantasy.
Unless we remain alert, there will be cloned human beings sooner than we imagine.
That is why it is a good thing that we as the Parliament - and now the Council as well - want to set a clear limit here because what the European Commission's bio-ethics advisory body proposed was not very clear.
What it said was that only the reproductive cloning of human beings should be rejected, and that would have meant that cloning experiments on embryos were to be permitted and only the creation of a cloned baby would be reprehensible.
However, that is a very inconsistent approach, firstly because the right to life and human dignity apply from the very beginning, and secondly because the creation of a cloned embryo is the decisive technical step on the way to the emergence of a cloned baby.
That is why it is good that we have this formulation under which cloning is defined as the creation of human beings with the same genetic information as other human beings.
As a result, our position is stronger than the cloning protocol of the Council of Europe, because in this case the term "human being' is also defined in the interinstitutional file.
Any attempts to weaken this ban on cloning will be resisted by the Group of the European People's Party now and in the future.
