Mr President, I note with pleasure that you allowed Mr Schulz to speak for a minute longer, and I am sure you will permit me to do the same.
First of all, I would like to say that I quite honestly think even more highly of Mrs Schaffner's report than the Veil report on which it was based.
However, I do not wish to deny the Veil report my appreciation, and I want to make it clear that we were pleased to note the extent to which freedom of movement has already become a reality in Europe, in law and in fact.
The first and most fundamental finding of this report is that we have considerable freedom of movement, to the benefit of all citizens of the European Union.
Further improvement to freedom of movement depends less on laying down new rules than on implementing the existing ones in the spirit of freedom of movement.
This is not least a request to all the authorities concerned, which are sometimes still petty in their actions and give us the impression that European freedom of movement is restricted rather than generous and liberal in its interpretation.
Having said that, credit is due to the Veil report for having pointed this out and to Mrs Schaffner for having highlighted it.
Of course, there are problems.
There are problems, for example, with workers' access to employment.
This is firstly because qualifications and diplomas are not fully recognized.
However, it is also because language in Europe does not just unite us, but can also be divisive when it comes to applying for a job.
I do not know what the solution to this problem is either.
Historically, other multinational systems have often had a common language: Latin in Ancient Rome, or the languages spoken in the Empire, and so on.
I see nothing here to help solve our problem, but the fact remains that there is a problem - we do not have a common identifying language.
I mention this as an aside.
Mr Schulz mentioned the legal situation of third country nationals.
Under the Treaty, there is indeed a distinction between third country nationals and citizens of the Union.
That is established in the Treaties, and the fact that third country nationals cannot take full advantage of the rights of citizens of the Union is primarily their own doing.
They are free to acquire the nationality of a Member State, but most do not want to.
So it is up to them to break down the barriers.
This report shows that we have achieved a great deal in the area of freedom of movement.
I think that to be able to note this on a day when two Member States, namely Austria and Italy, are joining the Schengen Agreement in terms of freedom of movement should make us feel proud of what we have achieved.
