Mr President, as a colleague of mine on the Committee on Institutional Affairs, the rapporteur knows that I am not one of those people who simply follow established ritual by thanking and complimenting each and every rapporteur.
I therefore thank Mr Herman not because it is traditional to do so, but out of great personal respect for his influential voice in the debate on the democratization of the EU.
I consider this report to be very important indeed.
The report's achievement lies in producing a frank and somewhat singular diagnosis of the democratic deficit in the EU and, by way of a clear and definite strategy, in producing a host of proposals, which I fully endorse.
However, I would like to say something about the rapporteur's basic strategy.
The second part of the report is sadly missing from the diagnosis.
The original reason given for this was that the report had to be submitted by 2 May.
We are now well past that date, so perhaps that decision was not quite the right one.
However, as has been said, we shall have to deal with the second part later.
The essential part of this diagnosis, in my view, lies in the fact that the rapporteur very clearly shows that parliamentary control is being withdrawn from the national parliaments in an increasing number of political spheres without this control being transferred to the European Parliament.
I consider this to be a quite decisive statement, because it is something which has not yet been properly grasped by the public at large.
It means quite simply that the EU's chain of legitimacy has long since been broken.
It means that the public no longer has an insight into the institutional system.
It means that our citizens' right to parliamentary control - and hence to public control - of the executive has been undermined.
This leads me in turn to criticize that practice, that pragmatic strategy, which the rapporteur is proposing in order to extend parliamentary rights and tackle the problem of democratic deficit.
The previous strategy of muddling through, of continuous negotiation, of reinterpretation, of stretching things to the limit, certainly brought the EU success over the years, but I think the rapporteur overlooks the fact that this strategy has not been able to prevent the ever widening gulf between centralization in Europe and democratization in the EU, or the increasingly frequent breakages in the chain of legitimacy, or the emergence of major legal uncertainties in the structure of EU institutions, or the institutional system's growing lack of transparency in the eyes of the general public, or the fact that such a strategy has failed to create a republican system of government, or that...
(The President cut off the speaker)
