Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the core of this automatic data processing system relates to the fact that, in principle, future applicants for asylum in the European Union should be fingerprinted as soon as they enter a Member State, as long as they are at least 14 years old.
I should like to make it clear from the outset that, for reasons I shall go into later, the PPE Group supports this intention, and that we cannot therefore see the point in linking it to the criticism that, as in other circumstances finger-printing is used as a method of the criminal justice system, it would effectively criminalize applicants for asylum.
In this regard, there are certain technical requirements which I should like to outline briefly.
It is important that asylum proceedings in Europe are decided quickly.
This is the right of applicants for asylum, irrespective of whether or not their applications are founded or whether or not they are victims of political persecution.
Whatever the case, they need to know as soon as possible whether they can remain in Europe.
Secondly, jurisdictions must be clearly defined.
It must be clear which Member State is responsible for dealing with an asylum procedure, i.e. who examines the application.
Thirdly, we must avoid a situation in which applicants for asylum are shunted back and forth between EU Member States.
These are the prerequisites of proper, constitutional and humane proceedings and in order to achieve them it is necessary to establish the identity of applicants for asylum, and where appropriate their family members, and that is what this system is for.
This is, of course, subject to data protection legislation.
The relevant agreement states that the Council of Europe Convention on Data Protection of 1981 is applicable in all cases.
This convention specifies, inter alia , that such finger prints must be deleted if, for example, the applicant receives citizenship of a Member State or is recognised in a Member State as a refugee.
However, not all those seeking asylum are the victims of political persecution.
Yesterday the figures relating to applicants for asylum in Germany last year were published.
They numbered more than 104 000, and of these, just over 5 % received recognition as political refugees.
Of course, there are a considerable number of asylum seekers who make not one, but two or more applications in order to receive several lots of social security benefit.
This is a regrettable fact which should not be overlooked.
In Germany, for example, investigations were carried out covering the period from January 1993 to September 1996 and no less than 46 000 cases of fraud were detected - a rate of approximately 1 in 10.
Since the introduction of an automated finger-printing system in Germany this figure has dropped considerably.
A comparative study has also been carried out examining asylum application procedures in Switzerland and Germany.
It revealed that double applications giving rise to payment of double social security benefits were received from the main applicant countries - Turkey 12 %, Pakistan 19 %, Zaire 12 %, Lebanon 12 % - and this fact cannot simply be ignored.
Similar figures also came out of a study comparing Switzerland and Austria.
Therefore, it makes sense to have such a procedure.
It benefits those who are genuinely the victims of political persecution and for this reason the PPE Group supports this Council Convention and has some reservations about the restrictions contained in Mrs d'Ancona's report.
