Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, what effect do European Parliament debates on human rights actually have?
Do they just make people aware of problems and then disappear into archives or do they emphatically pursue attempted solutions far beyond the shores of Europe?
Do they prosecute regard for human rights, do they contribute to the elimination of deplorable situations, do they offer any encouragement at all to those forces whose humanitarian, ecological or economical work needs to be supported?
The abuses of human rights in Burma continue unabated.
There is illtreatment, imprisonment, enforced labour and slave trading.
The woman who won the democratic elections over 9 years ago, winner of the Nobel Peace Prize, Madame Sun Kyi, is still de facto under house arrest.
Burma is today probably the biggest producer of opium in the world and is miles away from cooperating with other countries in the fight against drugs.
I can therefore only repeat the demand I made in my speech of March last year: cancel the tariff preferences for Burma.
Even if this measure is financially very small it must be extended for the fourth time.
But it will not be enough on its own.
The European Union is and remains a Community of values.
The maintenance of democracy and human rights is one of our highest principles.
We are not a movable object which allows itself to be misused for tactical ruses.
Anyone who gets involved in the battle against the abuse of human rights is in no way subject to the law of non-intervention in so-called internal affairs.
We must use economic pressure to exert political pressure on the revolutionary government.
We must impose more far-reaching sanctions.
Like the Americans, the Europeans must get companies to stop investing in Burma.
This gives rise to three questions to the European Commission.
Commissioner Marín, firstly, what chance do you give such an embargo on investment?
Secondly, in your view, are firms in Europe ready to take such measures?
Thirdly, what possibility do you see of preventing European firms from filling the vacuum caused by the withdrawal of American firms?
