Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the communication from the Commission wishes to establish guidelines for future Community initiatives in the area of general vocational training for the period 20002006.
We will discuss these in detail after the Commission has presented its specific proposals on 4 June of this year.
Today, however, I would like, on behalf of my Parliamentary group, to note that increased cooperation in the field of education in Europe is an important prerequisite for the integration process.
The issue of sufficient funds for exchange programmes and the related question of equal opportunity in terms of access to training and culture for all Europeans should be seen in the context of ideas currently under consideration for a more active labour market policy in the EU.
We must reach a point where all school leavers can speak at least one language and that all young people have the opportunity to gain experience abroad during their vocational training.
The Commission also considered this context itself in its communication; this makes it all the more incomprehensible that on the one hand, the sums of money being made available for language visits for schoolchildren and young employees within these training programmes are completely inadequate, and on the other hand, the Member States, despite their primary responsibility for educational policy, have done much too little in terms of experiences of other cultures, tolerance and mobility to prepare the youth of Europe for easier access to the common European market.
Only 10 % of schoolchildren, 1 % of vocational trainees and 5 % of students currently take part in exchange programmes.
It is still not bad though!
I appeal to the Commission and the Council of Ministers to consider, when reorganizing the Social Action Fund for a more active labour market policy, ways in which in future resources from the Social Action Fund can be used for employmentoriented training measures and of course ways too in which Socrates and Leonardo could be considerably better equipped to complement in an innovative way the European Union's efforts in the field of employment.
Therefore, as far as the quite excellent training programmes are concerned, I have tabled an amendment to the brilliant report by Mr Perry which not only demands a considerable increase in funding but also requests that, if possible, the level of funding be doubled from the year 2000 onwards; without this, even today's tasks cannot be completed in view of the enlargement of the EU towards the east and the level and availability of individual funds which in socio-political terms are currently unacceptably low.
Vague statements being interpreted in one way or in another does not help young people much; it is in the final analysis the credibility of Europe which is at stake.
