Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, those of you who have known me for many years know that there can be no possibility of me being put under pressure, as Mrs Grossetête or Mr Cabrol seemed to think, for I am a free-acting Member of this Parliament.
Everyone who knows me is also aware of the fact that I prefer to speak freely and unambiguously.
If the views which I am advocating today in this House are not popular, then this only shows that I am speaking out of personal conviction!
I share your opinion that cigarettes are dangerous, and I do not want to argue over the legal aspects of this today, even if I do believe that we shall be making fools of ourselves in the European Court of Justice.
But that is not my concern.
Nor is it my concern that there are tobacco subsidies.
What is my concern is the question of how we can allow a dangerous product to be legally produced if we believe that it is so dangerous.
If we are convinced that cigarettes are dangerous and lethal, we ought to have the courage to ban their production.
If we do not have the courage - and none of you has - then we have to think hard about what we should do about legal products which are legally produced, and which are allowed.
How can we restrict their sale if we believe that such restrictions are necessary?
I share the view of some of you that dangerous products ought to be subject to restrictions.
I think we should declare that cigarettes may only be sold in certain places.
We can say that no cigarette machines are allowed.
We can say no advertising in young people's magazines, or wherever.
I am on your side as far as that is concerned.
If you want to say that a certain risk level is to be associated with a certain type of product, and that this will determine how the product can be marketed - in terms of the type and amount of marketing used - then such a risk hierarchy is possible, and it will get my support.
But then we also have to introduce a similar system for alcohol, Mr Flynn!
I cannot wait to see how you will argue against the advertising of Guinness and whiskey in Ireland, because I can give you any number of reasons why whiskey is dangerous, and lots of other things too!
Those of you who are saying today that a ban on tobacco advertising will at least stop someone somewhere from taking up smoking should take a look at what is happening in the former Eastern bloc countries or in Greece.
There are just as many young smokers there, even though there is no advertising.
There were just as many smokers in the Eastern bloc states even when advertising was not allowed.
If we want to be logical, we must allow restrictions and back these up with educational campaigns.
