Mr President, Mrs Schörling has presented an excellent report.
On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists I wish to recommend it to the House, for there are clear loopholes in the Commission's communication on the European Union's follow-up to the world summit for social development.
The Commission maintains, and indeed Mrs Schörling also confirms this, that the policies of the EU and of the EU Member States have always been compatible with the commitments of the Copenhagen Declaration and action programme.
Proposals for initiatives within the EU have therefore been of correspondingly meagre proportions.
It is certainly right for the EU to advocate the philosophy of unemployment reduction, social integration in the positive sense and the eradication of poverty.
But as far as real action is concerned, we have had nothing but vague declarations.
We demand that the fight against poverty and social exclusion be given top priority within the EU.
Measures must therefore be taken within the framework of the European Social Fund.
For many years the programme to eradicate poverty has been put on hold because the German government was opposed to any EU initiative.
This German blockade must be broken.
We call upon the Commission to interpret the new article in the Treaty of Amsterdam as a means to combat social exclusion, that is to say, we require a definition of the legal instruments so that after ratification of the Treaty, measures can be taken for the benefit of the long-term unemployed, the poor, the disabled and the elderly.
The Commission's proposal deals in much greater detail with the priorities which have been laid down at international level.
EU policy in the area of development cooperation is actually directed at the eradication of poverty.
We have repeatedly endorsed our call for programmes aimed at debt reduction, after we have fulfilled the commitment to provide 0.7 % of GDP for official development assistance, and after compliance with ILO standards for basic working conditions and with the UN declaration of human rights and the UN child convention.
But we have also called emphatically for a global tax on international currency speculation, the so-called Tobin Tax, in the form of a Parliamentary resolution to the Copenhagen Summit.
Using taxes obtained from this source to create a fund for debt reduction for the poorest countries is without doubt a very practical move.
My group cannot therefore support Amendment No 10 as proposed by the Group of the European People's Party, for we believe that this tax should be imposed.
