Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate concerns first and foremost an important discovery: the Member States of the European Union are not closed, isolated societies but societies to which people migrate.
This immigration is a completely normal and very desirable occurrence which distinguishes immigration countries.
This is based on a very important right, namely the right to migrate to the Member States of the European Union, for which, under certain circumstances, rules must be laid down.
The first point is the principle, the second the rules of implementation.
I greatly regret the very restrictive approach taken by the rapporteur, who on almost all points surpassed the Commission as regards restrictions, impediments and conditions which are obviously intended to make the immigration process as difficult as possible.
I would have wished for an approach, Mr Lehne, which gave priority to migration according to democratic criteria and guaranteed rights for migrants, as is imperative for all democracies - for example, the unrestricted rights of the family, which should also be reflected in the regulations on family reunification.
In these terms - and, unlike you, I am pleased about this - the report was improved considerably by the committee.
A step towards realism and democracy is being taken in that now, for purposes of family reunification, the notion of family has been extended to include partnerships regardless of sex.
This should make us all proud as we are remaining true to ourselves, as Parliament, and ensuring that long-term partnerships and gay and lesbian couples are not the subject of discrimination.
Migration is not a threat for which we must prepare and arm ourselves.
Migration has made our societies richer, even in the truest sense of the word.
Those who continue to claim the opposite and repeatedly say that, for example, Germany - and particularly Bavaria - is not an immigration country, and accuse our foreigners of not integrating, are doing everything to ensure that this is rendered impossible.
However, it is these very politicians who are not integrated into the society of the 1990s, into the German European society of the 1990s, because they do not grasp the fact that we are no longer living in 1955.
They are living in the past.
But people who live in the past have no hopes for the future.
Unfortunately, Mr Nassauer is not here now.
However, I will still say it to him: dear Mr Nassauer, without these new residents, democracy, for example in our country, is not democracy but Germanocracy.
I would like to live in a democracy.
That is why it is important, Mr Lehne, that in this report such essential requirements are to be set regarding immigration, and that care is taken to ensure that the status of third-country nationals is adjusted to that of the Union's citizens in terms of freedom of movement, the right of establishment and the right to vote.
Had Germany had a different law, the German national team would have done better in the World Cup!
