Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this debate concerns political responsibility.
It is a question of dealing responsibly with the subject of 'flight' and a coherent European response to the question of helping refugees who are seeking protection.
This debate is about refugees and helping refugees, not about preventing refugees from taking flight in the first place.
We are experiencing precisely the opposite.
Refugees are being criminalized indiscriminately and the medium of Eurodac, Mr Wiebenga, is a means of criminalizing refugees indiscriminately.
They are per definitionem being turned into illegal immigrants, and now an entirely new concept is being introduced into the debate: that of the illegal exit.
I am familiar with this concept from the linguistic usage in the GDR, and Mr Swoboda uses this concept when he demands that Turkey as it were prevent refugees being able to escape from Turkey in the first place.
With the calls for Schengen to be repealed, which is only possible if there is an actual threat to public order and internal security, 2, 000 people in flight are declared to be a threat for 370 million EU citizens.
This is demagogic and represents an exploitation of the misery of people in flight for party political purposes, for election purposes and for purposes quite different from ensuring that the right of asylum is upheld here.
When now above all the Federal German Minister of the Interior, who over the last few days has posed as the taskmaster of Europe, criticises Italy this is an open call to violate prevailing asylum law.
He also calls for the Geneva Refugees Convention to be violated!
He calls for the European Convention on Human rights to be violated!
Indeed, where have we arrived at here if European responsibility now only means undermining the law of asylum as far as possible.
The Kurdish problem is not a police problem
Please allow me to say one more thing: four weeks ago Mr Juncker said here in this room that he would not sit at a table with torturers, and he was referring to the Turkish Government.
Four weeks later these very people are being cooperated with, the Turkish police are being cooperated with and there are discussions with the Turkish police as to how the culprits can combat the victims
(Applause) This is deceitful and cynical and makes it clear how seriously human rights policy is conducted!
(Applause)
