Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, now that the hardline right- and left wingers have paid tribute to each other - you obviously have to be hardline to be a member of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and I am very glad to be a member of the Committee on Institutional Affairs and able to do without this attribute, which I find very dubious - I would merely like to remind the members of the Committee on Internal Affairs that they are also members of the Committee on Civil Liberties, which is something which is frequently forgotten.
There are many ludicrous clauses in the Treaty of Amsterdam, but one of the most ludicrous is probably Article 29, which has, of course, also been included in this report.
It says: ' The Union's objectives shall be to provide citizens with a high level of safety within an area of freedom, security and justice by developing joint action among the Member States in the fields of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters and by preventing and combatting racism and xenophobia' .
The word freedom is not repeated.
The word justice is not repeated.
Only the word security - or safety - is repeated.
This imbalance is also reflected in the imbalance of this report.
Anyone who makes an unbalanced policy out of an imbalance of the values of law, freedom and security, and disturbs this balance, is using popular fear to do so.
Fear is not removed, but whipped up.
A major criticism of this report is the imbalance between the area of law and freedom and the security policy.
It may well make demands for guarantees of the rule of law and the stability of democratic institutions, but not, as we might expect, on us, where these things are strained, but on the countries of central and eastern Europe.
As if the rule of law would be guaranteed in the area of security by the establishment of the European Court of Justice, or civil rights protected by a charter of civil rights with the involvement of Parliament.
As if we should not be the first port of call for reproaches about the instability of institutions and the lack of the rule of law.
The report does not include a single word about this.
The report demands a common policy on asylum, but does not say a single word about the Geneva Convention, which is being removed piecemeal precisely by the policy of the European Union.
Reference is made to the rule of law, but only as an obligation for others.
This imbalance represents a serious imbalance in our system of values.
The second imbalance in this report has seldom been expressed so blatantly.
It is the imbalance of the burdens under which we are placing ourselves and the countries of eastern Europe.
With this policy, we are turning the countries of eastern Europe into a buffer zone for security, immigration and refugees for the European Union.
We are turning them into a glacis by telling them to solve our major problems, without helping them to do so.
Schengen prior to entry, a visa policy prior to entry, and adoption of the common asylum policy prior to entry, with nothing in return!
That is no policy to bring about an area of freedom and the rule of law.
