Madam President, many of the earlier speakers have expressed the view that the Parliament now needs to do nothing but accept the common position in its present form.
It has been said that the Council has in any case accepted many of Parliament's amendments, that the directive is now much better than the earlier drafts, and in particular that it is significantly better than the draft directive from the Commission.
I would like to associate myself explicitly with these findings, but not with the conclusion which has been drawn from them.
We must certainly thank our rapporteur for the significantly improved legal quality and consistency of the directive.
However, the fact of the matter is that, contrary to what has been claimed, the Council has not accepted some of the amendments which were agreed with widespread support in this Parliament.
And if it is conceded on all sides that the directive was much improved after its first reading in the European Parliament, we can reasonably conclude that the directive can be further improved at second reading...
if all the amendments which have not so far been accepted by the Council are re-introduced and agreed.
The timing and the deadlines do not militate against the acceptance of further amendments.
The Council agreed the present common position quickly, and the present amendments do not seek to make any changes to those points which were essential for the Council compromise.
We may therefore assume that the directive will come into force rapidly even if we accept further changes and come to an understanding with the Council either in a rapid conciliation procedure or perhaps even earlier.
However, I simply cannot understand why the Council did not accept Parliament's formulations on one matter, and that was the derogations for farmers.
As many here know gene technology, especially in agriculture, is rejected by a large majority, particularly in Austria.
Among our farmers, there have just been the first signs of a greater open-mindedness, and they can see that seed and reproductive material that have been genetically modified might be beneficial to them as well.
However, if they are now forced to recognize that this directive will make them economically dependent again because the derogations for farmers are too limited, this will do nothing to promote the acceptability of biotechnology in agriculture.
