Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a proposal for a convention which anticipates regulations which, on the basis of the Treaty of Amsterdam, will apply in the Union in other legal forms, namely in the form of Community law.
For this reason this debate is also considerably more important than it may have been in the past.
The European Parliament is getting ready to formulate legislation relating to one of the most essential areas of domestic policy, that of migration into Europe.
There is no doubt that all Member States will look critically at the way in which Parliament deals with this procedure.
With respect, Commissioner Gradin, I personally am convinced that your proposal will have considerable difficulty in obtaining a majority in the Council.
I believe that it must also be the task of the Commission to consider whether its proposals are capable of obtaining a majority.
It cannot be the case that Commissioners' own political convictions hold sway.
It is appeal to the majority which is crucial.
This means that we must state clearly to what extent we wish to have migration into Europe and to what extent we do not.
Europe is not an immigration region in the classical sense, as the United States was in the last century or as New Zealand and Australia are today.
Access must be regulated.
In this respect, the existing proposals offer no grounds for great satisfaction or even approval.
I will give you an example to make this clear.
Family reunification is a point of controversy, and I say this because, for example in Germany, the concept of family reunification in particular is used as an argument for immigration, as are asylum and, for example, the admission of refugees from civil war.
It is not acceptable for someone situated within the European Union to have the right to bring his entire family with him, but it would be appropriate for someone living outside the European Union, in a third country, to apply for entry to the European Union for reasons of family reunification.
Otherwise, all those who are here can bring their entire family, that is any number of relatives, while in the other case decisions are made on a case-by-case basis as to who has the right, on these grounds, to immigrate into the European Union.
This is an essential principle which, in my opinion, is unfortunately not dealt with appropriately in the Commission's proposal.
For this reason we must ask that we use not only the criterion of maximum conceivable generosity but also the criterion of reality.
We must be able to take responsibility for and justify everything relating to the field of immigration.
In this respect, Europe will have to seek acceptance.
