Madam Commissioner, I am glad you are here today.
Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are deluding ourselves if we believe that the free movement of persons in Europe has already been achieved.
Many of us have commented on the many restrictions.
But I think the report of the High Level Panel chaired by Simone Veil also shows how changes can be brought about.
It is quite clear from the 80 points included what the problems are - problems with which I myself have been very familiar for 27 or 28 years, I must say.
I am Dutch and have lived in Germany since 1970.
'So what?' you might think.
"You are a citizen of the Union, so that is not a problem.'
I could tell you of many problems which I still experience.
Of course, I now have a German diplomatic passport which makes things a bit easier.
But I also have a residence permit, which is crazy, but that is the way it is.
This applies to many of us if we want to take advantage of what is actually in the Maastricht Treaty.
The Maastricht Treaty also states that there could be many more people like myself whose nationality is other than that of the country they represent.
But it also states that we are entitled to take up employment in one country and live in another country, for example like transfrontier workers, who live in one country and have insurance in another.
I come from the Aachen border region, and I am aware of all these problems and the difficulties which exist.
But what happens if these people get divorced, as happens in almost one in three marriages?
Major problems then arise regarding entitlements to pensions, social security benefits, family allowances, and so on.
I could go on and on.
I welcome the fact that we are tackling this problem and that much of it is addressed in the Veil report.
But I have been talking about people who have a European Union passport.
Suppose we now consider those people who do not have a European Union passport, or who have not changed their nationality, whether consciously or unconsciously, perhaps for the same reasons as myself, but have lived here for 30 years.
We brought them here to work for us.
You could say they have done their bit, and now they are out on their own.
These people have a great many problems.
Mr Schiedermeier says that perhaps they want to come in by the back door, but I would like to tell him about a problem I have at the moment.
The family in question has German nationality.
Two children went to school abroad, but were not in Germany when they were 16, which means they have no right of residence.
Six children live in Germany and have a right of residence, as have their father and mother.
The other two must go back.
What sort of a country is that, if we send these people back, if we do not give these people the opportunity of being able to stay with us?
When we see that only Germans are accepted into the public sector - I was in the public sector myself for 30 years - and that many provisos apply to non-Germans, that there are no permanent residence permits, and so on, then I think we still have a very long way to go.
I hope our amendments are accepted, because that would then also let us show the Member States where we are heading at the start of the 21st century, namely towards a common Europe, where all citizens have the same rights and the same opportunities to cooperate in building this Europe, irrespective of nationality.
