Mr President, may I begin by extending my warmest thanks to the rapporteur for this demographic report 1997, and in particular for his commitment to the social market economy, which is not something which can be taken for granted.
Mr President, with your permission I should also like to take this opportunity to wish the rapporteur, whose birthday was on Monday, belated but nonetheless many happy returns.
Reading this report, one is automatically struck by the idea that the situation of the elderly in Europe is similar to that of the small- and medium-sized businesses.
A great deal has already been acknowledged about them, much has been said, much has been demanded, but there is little to show by way of concrete results.
It seems to me that the same thing could be said of the elderly.
It is true that working age population will continue to decrease due to the slowing-down of population growth.
That will lead to, in fact it is already leading to, higher social costs.
The question of financing is a difficult one to answer.
Various solutions are being considered, none of them ideal.
The effects on the labour market remain.
Neither the elderly nor employers seem particularly keen to take up the option of a gradual transition into retirement.
A switch to voluntary work, taken in isolation at least, has also failed to provide a solution.
It is unfortunate that at times there is no demand for the elderly to pass on their experience to younger people.
Women - and here the Committee on Women's Rights is quite right - find themselves in something of a "sandwich' situation.
First they go out to work, then they want children.
This is initially put off because they are working and then later when they are looking after their own children, they also find themselves busy with other caring responsibilities, and so it goes on.
This raises the question of the compatibility of domestic responsibilities and professional activities for men and women.
We need simply to ensure that in future family work is more highly valued.
To date only two steps have been taken in this direction, whichever countries one looks at.
One is child care and the other is child care leave.
We will have to continue down one or other of these routes sooner or later if we do not want to see social policy floundering in the European market economy.
