Mr President, the presidency of Michael Kovác came to an end at the beginning of March.
With his departure, however, political decisions have once more been taken in Slovakia which give us cause for concern.
Only a few hours after the official functions were provisionally transferred to prime minister Meciar as an interim measure, he had two personal assistants sacked, recalled over half of Slovakia's ambassadors - or at least gave notice of his intention to do so - and suspended the trial of the suspected abductor of the former President's son.
These decisions would be worrying enough under normal circumstances but they become alarming when they are taken by people who are merely temporary stand-ins.
Slovakia finds itself in an exceptional constitutional position.
Yet it is precisely in such a situation that principles such as the rule of law and democracy must continue to be adhered to and, above all, taken seriously.
We are once again confronted with the situation where a handful of people in the Slovakian government are placing the conditions in the country in a questionable light and interpreting the will of the Slovak people, the political culture and the political rules of play in a very one-sided way and are possibly shelving accession to the European Union.
At the end of the day, it is also a matter of expressing our solidarity with the Slovak people and letting them know that we are watching closely the current events in the country's political system.
We are also heeding public opinion in the country as well as in the EU.
In particular, we support the efforts being made to push through the referendum on the presidency as planned, a referendum which was judged to be permissible and constitutional by Slovakia's constitutional court.
All we can hope for is that Slovakia will be accepted as a candidate for accession as speedily as possible, as soon as the democratic situation in that country has moved in a satisfactory direction.
Slovakia has always been a part of Central Europe and we trust that our support here is also strong enough in future to underpin the partnership.
