Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who reads the Torres Couto report must come to the conclusion, at least in parts, that the rapporteur's view of the problem is starry-eyed and too much that of the developing countries.
For years, if not decades, the question of the indebtedness of poor countries has been a problem of our cooperation.
On the one hand, it is a great help for many countries to have access to credit.
On the other hand, precisely in these countries, unforeseeable developments are often the reason for them to walk smack into debt traps.
But we must not overlook that in this field too, unfortunately, the east-west conflict has left its traces behind.
The Commission's proposal to set up a fund for relieving the debts of poor countries is to be welcomed.
But the assessment should not be only according to the current debt status, but also the effort for a good administration must always be taken into account.
It should be pointed out that countries with great mineral wealth, such as the former Zaire, get the same support as Ethiopia, among others.
Admittedly we want to give President Kabila in the Democratic Republic of the Congo a probationary period, but the question for us is whether it is being taken into account that only a clear change from a dictatorship to a democracy can be a reason for a generous remission of debt.
It must also be emphasized that debts cannot be reduced unconditionally, because as well as the question of a somewhat democratic form of government there are the questions of corruption and excessive expenditure on armaments.
In Mr Torres Couto's report, the amendments concerning the involvement of the European Parliament must be particularly emphasized.
Admittedly the proposal concerns the money of the Development Fund, but unfortunately it is not subject to the budgetary control of the European Parliament.
Yet the participation of Parliament is an absolute requirement to ensure democratic control.
We will also get into difficulties if democratization plays an important part in the arguments with the developing countries, but on the European side Parliament is not involved.
The draft decision aims in the right direction, if the Commission's standards are not relaxed too much.
I hope that the basic ideas of the statement are put into effect quickly and successfully, to the benefit of the people in the affected developing countries.
