Mr President, Madam Commissioner, we are discussing an extremely important contribution to the subject of environmental and climate protection.
Professor Cabrol and Mr Bowe have sought to emphasize that volatile organic compounds are chemical substances which easily escape into the atmosphere.
These so-called forerunner substances react naturally with other substances and in doing so they both form and destroy ozone.
They therefore participate not only in the formation of the ozone layer but also in its destruction.
We could say that too little of it higher up forms the hole in the ozone layer, while too much of it lower down causes the greenhouse effect.
By reducing these substances at source we can also make a major contribution to climate protection.
I would like to add to what my colleague Mr Rübig has said with the following comments.
Approximately 51 % of VOC emissions stem from solvent use.
About 400, 000 EU businesses are affected by European legislation, of which 90 % are SMEs employing around 10 million people.
These figures demonstrate the importance of European regulations for environmental and climate protection, but they also indicate the financial impact which this legislation will have on European industry.
VOC emissions in the European Union are to be reduced by 1.4 million tonnes, or about 67 %, by the year 2007.
The most important measure in this respect is the industry-specific emission limit for new installations.
Existing plant are to be included on a progressive basis.
Exceptions, in the form of reduction schedules, will only be allowed when it can be proved that low-solvent and solvent-free substitutes can be used.
The Commission proposal is therefore a step in the right direction.
The problem facing us is certainly enormous.
National schemes, which the Commission has designated as a third possibility, have in the past proved to be less than effective.
There is a real danger that these are being used as a means of getting round the strict emission limits.
A large majority of the members of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection has therefore elected to remove this option.
It is the opinion of my group that the European Commission has, in other respects, submitted a proposal which is very acceptable to all sides.
We therefore oppose any fundamental amendment to it, whether this be a dilution or an unrealistic tightening of its provisions.
Of course a number of national peculiarities still exist, especially in Austria and Spain, and I would be grateful if the Commission could look again at these issues, since we do not want to see unreasonable developments in this respect.
In recent years all Member States, as well as European bodies, have gradually become convinced of the fact that not all problems can be resolved quite so rapidly.
We now also attach great importance to non-compulsion.
Businesses which act more quickly and with greater spontaneity than is required under the law should also receive appropriate concessions.
I therefore ask quite specifically that we should think about scaling down the amount of administrative bureaucracy applied in this area.
One of the motions which I have submitted concerns this very point.
I would be very grateful if this House could lend its support to our amendments.
