Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, anyone looking for long-term progress in traffic policy in the Alps today will swiftly come to the conclusion that in Europe everyday is soap-box day.
For the number of soap-box speeches to be heard demanding a common, transnational, environment- and people-oriented traffic policy is large and they all promise great things.
However, not much is actually being done.
We are simply trying to stop things happening.
Listening to the discussions and the Commissioner's information today, I have to conclude that nothing concrete is coming of today's debate either.
None of these speeches and statements actually represent a step forwards.
In fact, here in the European Parliament - this is a European Community - soap-boxes are making a great comeback.
What we have heard so far today is the German MEPs who have spoken taking part in a competition to find the most stupid soap-box orator..This is not way to construct Europe.
No way to make progress.
The EU Commission should see itself as the engine of the Community's traffic policy.
Laying out the external costs of traffic is indeed highly commendable.
Drawing up an Alps Clause with the European Parliament is indeed progress.
But the Commission doesn't have the courage to implement these ideas, to get anything concrete off the ground.
That is why the EU Commission and the presidency of the Council of Europe are being asked to do something about the situation.
That's why they are being asked to do something in the heart of Europe, in the foothills of the Alps in southern Germany.
And here I also include the Austrian areas.
At the present time the situation is such that most of the accent is being placed on the Munich-Verona route where an impossibly expensive, 20 km long mega tunnel is being proposed.
Unfortunately, we know that the completion date of this much needed project will be a long time coming.
What we must do now is involve the Court of Auditors and, at long last, start to operate a reasonable policy which the people, the economy and also the environmentalists in Europe can understand.
