Madam President, I would like to endorse this.
It is not the nuclear tests that preoccupy us, but rather an evil which often likes to creep up slowly, which sometimes begins quietly, but often ends badly, namely discrimination against religious minorities.
The evil is not just caused by state religions, but also by a misunderstood fundamentalism, which for example takes advantage of a blasphemy law that is fiercely applied.
In Pakistan this evil is virulent and has become apparent through the death of the Catholic bishop John Joseph, but the situation in Pakistan was also the subject of a working party at the Conference of the German Catholic Church last week, and without anyone suspecting what would happen.
Minorities are often characterized by various factors: ethnic differences, varying religions, languages or cultures.
At the same time some aspects always come together.
Religion is misused to suppress freedom of opinion and information, to influence courts and legal judgements and to exercise violence through the police and fanatical groups.
We would like to express to the Pakistan government our grave concern, before the currently postponed, yet still imminent consultation of the European Parliament on the cooperation agreement.
We would like to support all efforts to create the laws in such a way that human rights, democratic endeavour and law and order are guaranteed and religious freedom is provided for all who want to live in peace in their country.
I have been told that the Pakistan government would be making suitable efforts.
Certainly we see that the death penalty has currently been suspended.
If that is the case, then we would like to know that our resolution is seen as support for those who want to turn Pakistan into a modern state in an admittedly difficult political situation.
But please let this be done without the atom bomb!
Might I also remind you that the founder of Pakistan, Mohammed Ali Jinnah, supported the idea of equality for all religions.
I hope that modern Pakistan will take this to heart.
