Mr President, I cannot entirely agree with the previous speaker, although I would like to.
This is not a question of Dutch interests, if it were I should indeed be on your side, rather it is a question of Greek, Italian, Austrian, German, French and English interests.
And I could cite many other Member States.
Quite simply, we need to transit through the Alps.
As far as we are concerned, it is not acceptable for the Swiss to say: We are happy in our isolation.
Do whatever you want in the Brenner.
Do whatever you want in France.
We're shutting up shop and going home!
My dear colleague, we could also let the Swiss know that anyone who makes it economically impossible for us to transit through Switzerland should watch out that we don't make coming out of Switzerland economically impossible, not to put to fine a point on it!
It is not acceptable that the interests of our businessmen and consumers are treated as if we constantly have to kowtow.
Quite the opposite, we can use a two-track approach.
We want to protect the environment.
We want to move to rail.
But I see no evidence that what the Swiss government wanted to do in order to move to rail has actually happened yet.
To be honest, neither can I see any evidence that the Austrians, the Germans and the Italians are making as much progress with the Brenner Base Tunnel as they should be.
But we can't blame the fact that we haven't got further with the railway on the heavy goods transporters and then clout them with exorbitant charges.
Let me say it once quite bluntly: It is not acceptable for the Swiss to expect us to be grateful for dropping their claim for the passage from 410 to 360 Swiss francs.
That is still unacceptable.
We must tell the Swiss this.
We must also tell them that they are part of a larger picture, namely the land transport debate.
There are also many other issues which play a role in the negotiations.
Our colleagues in Switzerland will have to think about what it is they want.
I don't mind taking the part of the Swiss government.
Thanks to their constitution they are in an extremely difficult position.
However, I don't think they can simply announce that they're introducing an output-related heavy goods vehicle tax, say this is our standard and expect the rest of Europe to fall into line, just because they, the Swiss, say so!
We can't work together on that basis.
I hope that the Swiss recognise that workers in Greece and Italy also have an interest in getting their goods to market.
For this reason I believe we must tell the Swiss that we cannot and will not accept exorbitant charges.
I would also say to some of the members of this House, including my colleague Mrs van Dijk: I often hear you say: If you would drop at least as far as the Austrian Brenner rate, we would be happy.
My response is No!
If my memory serves me correctly, this Parliament supported the Commission in its legal action against the last toll increase in the Brenner.
I would like to remind you that the Commission won't forget that.
And so we should both press for a quick agreement with the Swiss.
But, as Brian Simpson said, not at any price.
