Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we speak today about a new bus directive which contains special regulations for the carriage of passengers with reduced mobility, we should bear in mind, particularly in view of the recent debate about increasing road safety - after all, 1.6 million people suffer often permanent injuries in accidents - that we could in fact ourselves be one of them tomorrow.
We too would then have to cope with living as a disabled person.
At present there are about 37 million disabled people living in the European Union.
But it is not only they who often have problems with the use of public transport.
We must think of everybody: of elderly people with mobility problems, of small children, or of those in particular situations, such as, for example, pregnant women or passengers carrying luggage or pushchairs.
I therefore feel that the broad interpretation of the concept "persons with reduced mobility' is legitimate and should be welcomed.
To that extent, I support the social aim of the directive.
It deals with the right aspect, namely that of safety, but in respect of certain detailed solutions goes much too far in its regulation.
We must not absolve companies from their own responsibilities to seek the best solutions.
Such solutions could be of a technical, but also of a logistical nature.
Bus manufacturers already demonstrate in fact their great capability in respect of safety.
I am at all times very happy to support demands for equality of opportunity for people with reduced mobility.
However, I reject nonsensical and exaggerated regulations on detail.
The responsibilities which lie with the European Committee for Standardization, business and, in terms of subsidiarity, even with local authorities, should not be brought together by us under the umbrella of the EU Commission.
I therefore consider demands for 4 metre ramps at the entrance and exit of buses to be completely ill-considered.
Political demands and objectives which call upon both manufacturers and operators of buses alike to seek, in equal measure, innovative solutions, seem to me to be more suitable for doing something for the disadvantaged than rigid European standards which apply from Finland to Sicily.
Although the problems of disabled people across the European Union are comparable, the Member States must take into account climatic, territorial, traditional and other specific conditions in their efforts to procure a real place in their midst for disabled people.
