Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to clarify what is at issue for us in the PPE and ÖVP Groups in this Parliament.
It is not a question of discriminating against homosexuals.
It is not a question of violating basic rights and human rights.
The question of the age of consent is a national and not a European legal issue, and that is undisputed.
Politicians must fulfil their responsibility towards young people.
This is why, only this summer in the reform of our criminal laws, the Austrian People's Party voted in the Austrian Parliament to retain the current age of consent as set out in Article 209.
What is happening here and the reason for which we are rejecting this urgent debate have nothing to do with any desire to discriminate against homosexuals; rather, we do not wish to depart from our own legal precedents.
However, we also want to take a stand against Austrian domestic policy being brought into the European Parliament by liberals, Greens and social democrats in order to discriminate against Austria, which currently holds the Presidency.
Here, it is not homosexuals but the Austrian Presidency which is the victim of discrimination.
I am also angry to see how my social democrat colleagues have changed their tune, as they abstained from voting when the law was going through the Austrian Parliament and here they are doing the opposite.
For this reason I would ask that this request for an urgent debate be rejected, and I stand by this.
Not because we wish to discriminate against homosexuals but because we insist on maintaining our legal position and are acting no differently here than we would in Austria, although this is an incidental consideration.
We have full support in the PPE Group for this position, although we all know that opinions vary widely in the individual Member States on the sensitive issue of discrimination against homosexuals.
Once again, I would say that the European Parliament is not the appropriate forum for making one's mark on a national issue for Austria.
I consider it wholly inappropriate to bring this debate into the European Parliament, and I reject this most emphatically.
