Mr President, President of the Council, I should firstly like to congratulate Mr Spencer on his report which has given rise to what has certainly been a very interesting and critical debate.
After so much discussion and so many substantive contributions, I would like to confine myself to just two critical observations.
The first is the visibility of our foreign policy, and the second is the diplomatic service.
As far as the visibility of our foreign policy is concerned, I would like to emphasize that, even in the areas where we do arrive at a common foreign policy, it is often not really visible to the population of the countries concerned.
I know that this is a problem.
I have just come back from Turkey.
Are there many people in Turkey who know what our foreign policy is, what the Luxembourg decision is?
Mr Robin Cook, the Foreign Secretary, has just paid a very successful visit which was completed in a very positive manner, even if the results are not yet available, but that would be to expect too much.
But are there many people who can appreciate the efforts which the EU in particular undertakes to support human rights organizations?
I was recently in Israel and Palestine.
How are things there?
Have we really given enough thought to how we can improve the visibility of our foreign policy?
My second remark concerns the diplomatic service.
We have outstanding women and men in the diplomatic service.
But I ask myself why a Commission representation has still not been set up in Algiers after so many months of intensive meetings?
Why has the diplomatic representation in Turkey and in Slovakia been vacant for so long?
It may be no fault of the Commission; it may be that some countries who are keen to send a representative from amongst their own ranks to these places need such a long time.
But I believe that this is intolerable for our common foreign policy, and I ask the representatives of the Commission, the Commissioner is here now, and you as well, Mr President of the Council, to look to ensure that greater efficiency is applied in carrying out our interests even in those areas in which we have a common foreign policy.
I regard this as very important.
