Mr President, what follows from this?
I believe that this must once again be clarified.
It is not a general question, Mr Menrad, of partnership or class conflict.
I cannot help commenting here that anyone who cannot engage in conflict will not be taken seriously as a partner either.
It is a question of how participation systems can be developed beyond the Ford factory, i.e. beyond the large company, with co-management or other means of involving employees arranged by the trade unions.
We know that the low-denomination share is no answer.
The shareholder is torn one way and the other between the shareholder value, which calls for sackings, and his interest as an employee, which calls for employment.
That is the case at Volkswagen, that is the case at Renault and that is always the case wherever low-denomination shares are broadly scattered amongst employees.
We must urgently examine to what extent we can expand the corporate concept which focuses on the functional context instead of the mere formation of property; modern franchise company chains should be examined in this connection.
We must also consider the redefinition of the boundaries of corporate and social democratisation.
In this respect I disagree slightly with the GUE, because local and regional coordination also calls for new forms of incorporation and in that case a reliance on ownership makes complete sense.
However, in particular this is a matter of genuine participation in profits, not of wages being paid out over an extended period of time, and also of the necessity for providing official cover for the employees' shares.
We have submitted the appropriate applications.
We can also support the applications of Mr Menrad, since it seems to us rational to once again support rational privatization with appropriate participation strategies; a specific concentration on small and medium-sized undertakings also seems to us to make sense, provided their particular circumstances are adequately taken into account.
However, the fundamental issue is to deal with the question which has already been raised in connection with the Meitner plan in Sweden in the full bloom of Fordism: how can a mechanism be effectively installed which cancels out the automatic process whereby the holders of capital accumulate the corporate wealth and the dependent workers can at most reproduce their own working capacity?
This is the question we are faced with, and in this respect the PEPPER Report is really only a precursor, as much as Mrs Hermange is to be thanked for drawing something positive from it with the Committee for Employment and Social Affairs.
