Madam President, for some time now Mr Uschkin Hoti, a Kosovo Albanian professor and a great European, has been languishing in a Serbian jail because years ago he dared to suggest a European negotiated solution for Kosovo.
In our resolution we call for his immediate release and we should take what he says as a warning.
This is not the sudden escalation of a conflict.
Kosovo has been the scene of systematic discrimination, torture, expulsion and even genocide for years.
1989 started with a quasi-coup by Milosevic abolishing the autonomy of Kosovo in breach of the then Yugoslavian Constitution.
Today we can be in no doubt that it is Mr Milosevic who must bear the principal responsibility for what is happening, which is not individual cases of infringements of human rights, but crimes against humanity.
For this reason I am very grateful to Mr Swoboda for Amendment No 3 in which he gives voice to this fact.
Crimes against humanity can never be a domestic matter, even less so than infringements of human rights.
In my view, the rightful place for Mr Milosevic and his thugs is before the tribunal in The Hague, not in the negotiating room.
There can be no doubt that we must strive for a negotiated solution.
So the policy of the carrot and the stick is undoubtedly the right one.
Sometimes, however, I have to say that I would like to see a little more of the stick.
First and foremost, we must be clear that it will be difficult to get the better of Serbia with sanctions - as Mr van den Broek said very clearly earlier.
What we must do is leave Serbia in no doubt that, if this genocide continues, it will end up alienating itself from the international community, with all the resulting consequences.
We need not only international observers, we also need international peace-keeping troops to monitor the return to autonomy in Kosovo, leaving the Kosovo Albanians free to come to an independently negotiated solution with Belgrade.
In truth, I do not believe that the current murders will stop until we decide to impose our presence in Kosovo through observers, through the long-planned EU office and, if possible, through peace-keeping troops.
As the European Union we should not shy away from taking independent initiatives.
Of course we need the contact group, but we should not allow ourselves to become hostage to it.
Anyone who followed the meeting of the G8 Foreign and Finance Ministers in London saw how the G8 collapsed because Russia was completely unprepared to back the measures.
In other words, Moscow is choosing to turn a blind eye to the genocide.
We must be clear that this is quite clearly affecting the work of the contact group.
Which is why, in addition to the contact group, we also need to project a clear and unambiguous voice from the European Union.
