Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, one of the Union's major goals is greater stability in Europe.
European stability should serve to enhance the security of the world economic system as a whole.
For precisely that reason, it would be entirely inappropriate to talk the world into even more crises and disasters.
Nevertheless, one thing is necessary: we must do a certain amount of stocktaking.
Although we are talking about Russia today, the fact is that one third of the world economy is in the depths of recession, that living standards in the countries concerned are plummeting while unemployment rises.
In relation to Russia, this has meant that about one in four employees throughout the country has virtually received no pay for six months.
That is the social situation in a nutshell.
The additional slump in trade resulting from this delicate situation has assumed threatening proportions and has led to a further loss of confidence.
What is the issue?
Russia needs some restoration work on its governmental administration systems and it needs structural aid.
The structural aid has to be approached in a sensitive manner.
The TACIS system must be developed and expanded.
That cannot by done by simply controlling capital movements.
Confidence is imperative.
Without loans the world would grind to a complete standstill.
Under no circumstances must the present crisis culminate in a credit crunch, for that would be disastrous for these parts of the world and especially for Russia.
But one other thing is certain, namely that it is desirable and essential that the ability of Russia, of all countries, to repay its loans should be re-established as quickly as possible if confidence is to be restored.
Perhaps, to take up a point that was touched upon today by our State Secretary, we should also adopt a more resolute approach on the international stage.
We should form an international commission, perhaps on the model of the Brundtland Commission.
It is a matter of putting the financial structure in order again and restoring confidence.
That is all.
We shall do it with the greatest of sensitivity, as the present situation demands.
