Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps it was, as they say, revealing that Viagra was wrongly categorised here as having something to do with a satisfied sexuality.
But if you believe that, you may also think that the broad distribution of shares and pension funds through the whole of the SME sector could in any way be a step towards democratising the economy or decentralising economic power.
We have to face up to the fact that support for SMEs is an unequal race, one between Achilles and the tortoise, or between the hare and the hedgehog in the German fable, but unfortunately without the help of mistakenly thinking that movement involves small, intermittent steps and without the help of the hedgehog's loving wife and companion.
In other words, the concentration and centralisation of capital is marching inexorably on, and the new niches created along the way are only of minor importance.
The situation of SMEs is not improving, but worsening.
We cannot therefore think that unleashing market forces while at the same time developing SMEs would work.
That is why, in the reports, there is also what I would call the 'fallacy of misplaced concreteness'.
Of course we should do something to combat late payment but we should not exaggerate.
The entrenched economic downturn expresses itself in different ways, including late payment.
Of course, what Mrs Thyssen said was true, the EU institutions cannot exempt themselves from rules applicable to public bodies.
As far as raising venture capital is concerned, it is certainly true that this is difficult in Europe.
But one should not believe that making it easier to set up a business would also mean improved chances of survival.
Until we reform the bankruptcy law, people will not be very quick to start a business.
Mr Hendrick, simply believing that readiness to take risks has something to do with people's psychological make-up really does not provide the level of analysis that we require.
And anyone who believes that pension funds are the only way to reform pensions has simply not looked at how social security systems have developed on the European continent.
What we need is not simply deregulation, but better regulation.
People need advice, information and favourable local and regional conditions.
These are the things we should be tackling, but unfortunately, they are missing from these reports.
I could continue at length, but I shall finish now, as my speaking time has run out.
