Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although the report prepared by my colleague Mrs d'Ancona on the drawing up of the Convention concerning the establishment of "Eurodac' is, in essence, a factual and technical report - as my colleague has already pointed out - the tone is of great significance for those people involved.
The individuals to be registered using this system have left their home countries for a number of different reasons and by a number of very different routes.
For the most part they have done so because they were fleeing terror, torture and persecution, but also - and we must not underestimate this - because they come from hopeless social and economic backgrounds.
They have all chosen flight in the hope that wherever they may one day find refuge, they really will be able to find better and more secure futures, and above all live safer lives.
However, due to the influx of refugees into the European Union, the receptiveness of Member States has declined rapidly in recent years.
On one hand, the many common regulations and conventions existing between the Member States create the impression that fortress Europe is expanding.
On the other, Europe is becoming more and more unified, internal borders are becoming increasingly less significant and here too there is a need for a common set of regulations.
This is particularly important in the area of the third pillar.
However, - and here I must agree with Mrs d'Ancona, and thank her for the excellent work she has done on this report - it is essential that when we talk about an asylum and immigration policy, we talk about a common asylum and immigration policy.
There should not, therefore, as is currently the case, be a raft of very different regulations applicable in the various Member States which are then brought together into a minimal piece of legislation by the Council, effectively restricting the level of protection for refugees to a minimum.
I also agree that we should draw up a common framework.
But there are a couple of additional comments which I would like to make about the report, which I think are important.
The most important is that data protection be guaranteed for the individuals involved.
Since it has been laid down that there should be a central organization, but not exactly how this organization should function, it is also important that we agree, as Mrs d'Ancona has stated, that this central unit be based within the European Commission.
I also think it is important that the Member States have only limited access to this central unit, and for a period of only three months, as they are also able to set up their own registers.
Therefore, in my view, it is necessary that access by the Member States to this central register be limited.
