Mr President, Mr Hory, it is by no means only Members from Belgium and France who are interested in this conflict, as can be seen from my speech.
But there are always only a few who can support these resolutions.
One should not conclude from this, however, that others are not interested.
Quite the contrary.
We all wish for peace in Africa, a peace that leads to prosperity and stability.
However, the situation in reality does not make this easy.
But despair should not lead to resignation, Mr Wolf.
I know that you do not want that either.
Of course, it is sometimes depressing when we try again and again to make progress, to provide support and assistance, and yet things do not turn out as well as we would have wished.
But we must persist in our efforts to find ways to settle the conflict, and particularly to strengthen and include all political forces in Africa which can, and above all wish to, contribute to bringing about stability and a solution to the conflict.
The ACP-EU Joint Assembly is meeting in Brussels next week and we hope that all the parties involved will sit round one table with us there.
We have been dealing with the conflict in the Great Lakes region for years, and now it is on the agenda once again.
It has become a constant history of suffering.
However, I think that these meetings help us - and there are positive signs here - to talk to each other and to sound out possible ways of solving the conflict.
Firstly, we must, together with all the African representatives who will sit at the table with us, put all our energies into overcoming ethnic hatred, one of the main causes of this conflict.
I will not list all the atrocities, human rights violations and acts of violence here.
A great deal has already been said about this.
However, it is particularly sad that those who have themselves been victims of discrimination and hatred in the past, today show the same hatred and discrimination towards each other.
This is something which we cannot tolerate.
Yet neither can we approve of military intervention - regardless of which side it comes from - rather than efforts to choose the path of peace and to urge neighbouring countries to seek a peaceful solution to the conflict, while upholding the principles of democracy.
Conflict prevention is often on the agenda.
We have used up a great deal of paper on this issue.
I think that, in practice, we must attach even greater importance to preventive methods of conflict avoidance than we have up to now.
We must give particular emphasis to the fact that peace talks can only be successful if all parties to the conflict sit at the same table.
This is what we must try to achieve.
