Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too wish to congratulate Mr Pex on this long overdue report.
If Europe is to become a Europe of the people, then its tangible benefits, its aims and its perspectives must be more clearly understood by the people.
That means democracy in its absolute sense, and the right to have things explained.
We all know from our own national organizations just how much uncertainty and ignorance still prevails on the subject of Europe.
There is a serious information deficit - incidentally this also applies to the national governments - and a clear disparity between the successes of the EU and its image.
This has resulted in the unpleasant fact that interest in the EU has long centred around negative stories from Europe, and the sceptics have been gaining ground.
As has already been said, people do not know about the European Parliament's rights of codecision after Amsterdam, for example.
How many citizens of the EU are aware of the legislative rights of this House?
Do we even know how the great euro information campaigns permeated down to the ordinary citizens?
Was the success of these campaigns ever analysed or discussed with us?
How did we ever get into such a situation of no confidence in the democratic legitimacy of decisions taken at European level?
I believe we need a more efficient front-line mediation structure, and information on European Parliamentary decisions must be circulated quickly.
We must also pay attention to the amount of information we supply and to the language used, particularly with regard to those target groups who are in urgent need of it.
I would just like to say one more thing.
I cannot imagine that efficiency will be further enhanced by setting up more wonderful - and wonderfully expensive - EU offices and other bodies in Brussels.
This will only be achieved by a further decentralization of our information services.
The "Europe Info Points' , which proved a big success, would be eminently suitable for this task.
These units must be extended, for they operate at the grass roots and offer the ordinary citizen a shortcut to EU information.
Local authorities are willing to cooperate here.
Let us make use of the opportunity provided by central, regional and local authorities, and let us at last launch a confident offensive for the European cause.
