Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think this is a good example of how the Council of Ministers and the Parliament can work together.
In response to a good proposal by the Commission we have essentially agreed in two readings on how the training of seafarers could be improved, with particular reference to their protection and to protecting our citizens and the environment.
As various Members have already said, substandard ships are the nub of the matter, although I must tell my friend from Greece that I am not quite sure if I would include old ships.
Ships may be very old, yet if they are well maintained and have a good crew, they are highly seaworthy.
I sincerely believe that the human factor is one of the main causes of accidents, and - we are lucky in having the right Commissioner with us this morning - accidents at sea often result in dreadful pollution which put nature and the sea seriously at risk.
Training seafarers so as to avoid accidents can accordingly make an indirect contribution to preventing sea pollution and to environmental protection.
I believe it is particularly important that watchkeeping requirements have been tightened up.
But it is my belief, whether the Titanic is a good example or not, that they knew what was happening.
They just needed to react properly.
However, the economic interests of the company outweighed the need to protect passengers.
We must make sure that never happens again, so I believe that these watchkeeping requirements are very good.
But watchkeeping is not of course the end of the story.
Mr Parodi has once again brought forward a very good proposal from the first reading.
Madam Commissioner, it would be wonderful if you could give this additional Parliament amendment your support, as its aim is even more stringent treatment of exceptional circumstances in relation to watchkeeping, and I believe that safety at sea must come first.
On the latter point, I should like to support what my colleague has said.
It is no good at all if the Parliament and the Council, in conjunction with the Commission, make excellent law, and if Member States implement this law by amending training regulations, if the same Member States then fail to ensure that checks are carried out under Port State Control to ensure that ships are, in practice, only crewed by well trained seafarers.
In this context I think we need to ask the Commission, regardless of subsidiarity, to check whether training regulations are being adhered to, under Port State Control.
