Mr President, we now know why large sectors of the population are afraid, are afraid of immigration, of non-existing rules.
What we need is rules relating to employment and also to the immigration of foreign workers into the Union.
Mr Lehne addresses both in his report, and we must consider both together.
The population expects politicians to tackle such problems and present solutions, that is, to create a system of laws or rules and undertake harmonization.
I am pleased that the Treaty of Amsterdam supports us in this.
We need common rules for the migration of workers, which must be controlled and restricted.
Only when this happens in the interest of the Union will the integration of foreign nationals really be reasonable and possible.
We have experienced problems of this kind in Austria.
We drew up rules, with the result that a quota system currently exists whereby no further immigrants are admitted until those already admitted have become integrated.
I consider this to be an absolutely essential system.
So the aim must be to draw up Community rules on migration and establishment.
In the Union there is no right of immigration and establishment, and it must also be possible to draw up common rules relating to the asylum procedure.
We do not have that yet either, and this leads to abuse.
The Social Democrats, the Greens and the Liberals have, to a certain extent, strayed from the path of reason with their amendments, which have made the Lehne report an irrational one.
It has now been presented to Parliament, with the regulations you are aware of, which aim for absolute liberalization.
Migration with open borders is certainly not what we want or what the people expect from us, the European Parliament.
I hope that tomorrow we will return to the path of reason, that is, that the amendments tabled by ourselves and by Mr Lehne obtain a majority in Parliament.
Then we will find a course which will really allow immigration and integration to a limited and controlled extent, as we would wish, and promote a complete system which the public and the people will not be afraid of, but provide a solution for the people who come to Europe, and for us and the Union itself as a whole.
