Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the rapporteur for his patience, his commitment and his incredible staying power during this ten year legislative procedure.
I would like with wholehearted conviction to support his recommendation that we accept the common position unchanged.
I, too, recognize explicitly that the common position which is now before us represents an improvement over the first text.
It presents many things in a way which is textually clearer and more easily understood.
Nonetheless, I cannot refrain from pointing out that in the case of the second draft, which is now before us in the shape of the common position, we are not dealing with any basic change to the result that we achieved in the Conciliation Committee.
At that time, the Group of the European People's Party voted by an overwhelming majority for the compromise reached in the Conciliation Committee, and it is fully behind it.
I would like to point this out in order to counteract the impression that a genuinely acceptable text has become available only in the context of the second legislative procedure.
Nonetheless, as I have already said, the present text is more clearly drafted and for that reason it is to be welcomed.
Any problems in relation to the acceptability of this directive are based on a fundamental misunderstanding.
It is assumed, for example, that all concerns in the area of ethics also need to be regulated in the context of the patent directive.
That is to miss a number of points.
On the one hand, patenting an invention does not in any sense mean that the patent holder is also allowed to deploy it or even to make use of it on an industrial scale.
National laws alone determine this.
In the field of biotechnology, these are, in Germany for example, in the first case the Gene Technology Act, the Embryo Protection Act, and law on medicine.
If standardization is desired in this field, we shall need a European Gene Technology Act and a European Embryo Protection Act, but you cannot make a start on this in the context of the bio-patents directive.
In addition, and contrary to the first impression, the rejection of a patent application, in other words the refusal of patent protection, does not mean that all exploitation of the invention is excluded.
It simply means that it is then freely available for anyone to use, provided that its use is permissible under general national laws.
It is important to point this out in order to gain an understanding of the directive, be it in its first or second draft, and in order to classify it correctly in terms of its legal character.
Only if we bear these aspects in mind will we be in a position to take an objective view in the context of this legislative procedure.
Patent law is not an instrument for postulating a European legal and moral order.
In this respect, I give my unreserved agreement to the substantive explanations of the rapporteur.
We need this directive, and if we adopt it tomorrow, as I hope we do, by agreeing to the common position, we shall achieve a strengthening of Europe's attraction as a location for biotechnology, and as a result we shall be able to hold our ground far better in terms of the law of competition.
