Madam President, I have only two comments on the Cunha report.
Firstly, it is a good report.
Why?
Because Mr Cunha has succeeded in achieving a sensible, mutually beneficial co-existence between current position papers by the parliamentary groups and future reports on the production sectors within the framework of Agenda 2000.
Furthermore, the rapporteur has kept to the recommendation by the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development not to go into detail in his report, which did not, however, prevent him from - rightly - making the opinion of the Committee quite clear on the focal points of the future Agenda 2000.
Secondly, the protagonist in the Agenda 2000 discussion is price reductions in exchange for more or less sufficient compensation, Commissioner.
We can debate it as we wish but there has to be some guarantee that farmers do not derive their incomes solely or substantially from compensation but that they can participate in the market more than before.
This is exactly the point that affects our voters, the people who put us in this House and who, not being farmers, increasingly fail to understand this system of financing.
But have our voters ever asked why production price reductions - undertaken, for example, in the MacSharry reform in 1992 - never filtered through to the consumer?
What will be the effect of the future Fischler reform, to give another name to the agriculture part of the Agenda?
Commissioner, will bread prices fall?
Cereal prices are to be reduced by 20 %, after all.
Will beer become cheaper?
A delight to all aficionados of this drink, as the percentage of cereal in this lovely product is by no means insignificant, and the price of cereals is being reduced!
Will meat become cheaper, given the planned 30 % price reduction?
What about the price of butter?
Last but not least, the price of compound feedingstuff in animal feeds should become cheaper.
Will we be able to expect this?
If this were the case, our voters, who are not only concerned with agriculture, would certainly have greater understanding for European agriculture.
But they will have to be able to see it in their wallets when they go shopping.
Then European agriculture would be a great deal more credible!
