Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, although Commissioner Bangemann has already gone, I would not like him to get a surprise in the Conciliation Committee.
We are not just talking about the same old proposals for amendments - we too are impressed by how far the Council has moved away from the Commission's position.
I think that is a good sign for the conciliation process.
There is nothing new about attempts to reduce emissions of pollutants from motor vehicles.
A lot of progress has been made in recent years, but not enough.
Complicated measures will be required to ensure unlimited mobility for our citizens in the future, and that is my particular concern.
That is why I welcome the approach adopted in the Auto-Oil programme before us today.
There are two sides to this: first, optimizing vehicle technology so that pollutants are reduced; and second, improving fuel quality so that pollutants are totally eliminated or are reduced, as well as facilitating the introduction of modern engine technology.
The Auto-Oil programme was the first time that had happened, and it is unfortunate that the original cooperation between the oil industry and the automotive industry is not continued in the Commission's proposal.
It is actually very important for these two European industrial sectors to work together, given that the competitiveness of European industry is at stake.
So it has to be reiterated that a legislative approach must be adopted to make progress.
It is really a truism to say that improved fuels are needed to reduce emissions from the existing motor vehicle fleet and to ease the introduction of fuel-efficient engine technology in the future.
This House made its position on this quite clear at first reading.
What I find totally incomprehensible is the attitude of some parts of the European oil industry, which is fighting tooth and nail against significant fuel improvements.
It claims that it would involve high costs for the oil industry with little benefit for the environment.
Both claims are wrong.
The most recent calculations indicate that the cost of desulphurizing fuels and other measures are by no means as high as originally assumed, and it will be passed on to the consumer anyway.
I would just like to point out what is involved.
We are talking about just ECU 0.004 per litre for petrol and 0.009 per litre for diesel, based on the strict limits at first reading.
So what are the environmental advantages?
They are certainly enormous.
One European car manufacturer recently tested its vehicles in California, where fuels that comply with these limits are already on the market.
The result was a reduction of about 40 % in hydrocarbon emissions and about 30 % in NOx emissions.
I would call that a major environmental benefit.
It is not fair to threaten refinery closures because of the Auto-Oil programme.
A new Commission study has confirmed what is already well-known among specialists: there is over-capacity in Europe's refineries, and this is a structural problem.
At present, the oil industry is investing outside Europe.
Demand for clean fuels would bring this investment back to Europe and guarantee the competitiveness of this sector in Europe, and that is something we all want.
Although the compromise proposal is very much a backward step compared with the first reading, I still firmly support it, particularly as regards the mandatory values for 2005.
Mr Florenz has already said today that industry has to invest.
We know that.
It needs to invest money.
But we can give it a guarantee that this money will be well invested, instead of letting them invest with 2000 in mind and then suddenly coming up with totally different values, so that their investment has been wasted.
We cannot be a party to anything like that, and it is not this Parliament's intention in any case.
Of course, technically speaking it would be possible to go a lot further than we are proposing here.
It remains to be seen whether the legal framework is adequate to achieve everything that is necessary and feasible.
If not, the report before us also allows for further improvement.
Maybe you will take that as a warning.
