Madam President, Mr Liikanen, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of December 1995 the budgetary procedure made substantial funds available for reconstruction in the former Yugoslavia.
Since then I and some of my colleagues, and in particular Mr Giansily, have been looking into why the Commission is finding it so difficult to implement these funds effectively and quickly - after all they are supposed to constitute an immediate aid to reconstruction - and to get them to where they are needed.
My advice, based on what we are doing in the discharge procedure, is as follows: continue to appeal to the Commission to do better, to create a better legal basis, to listen less to the Council and not to be blackmailed by it - for the Council too has played its part in events here.
For a long time this approach failed to have any effect until we brought some real pressure to bear - and this was in the form of the reserve which we provided under the last budget procedure.
This year some ECU 30 million will not be allocated for Bosnia unless the situation noticeably improves through the summer.
We need a proper legal basis for implementing all budget lines thoroughly, quickly and effectively, that is to say we require thorough, effective and well-trained personnel to be present on the spot and, most importantly, we need a decentralized decision-making process - and this is something which is still clearly giving the Commission considerable cause for concern.
We have been reliably informed by the delegation out there that the decision-making processes operated from Brussels, where no-one knows the real situation on the ground and where files are just moved from one desk to another, cannot cope with the task in hand, and that people there cannot reconstruct their parliament or their schools because of some blockage or other at the Brussels end.
This situation simply cannot be allowed to continue.
The pressure brought to bear by the reserve has meant that new proposals are again being submitted, and that is why the postponement of the discharge is so important.
I have learned a lesson from all this, namely that the Commission ultimately responds to pressure
The Commission has often said "yes, we too have read the report from the Court of Auditors and now everything is better' .
This time we really want to be convinced that the Commission has learned something, that it is now prepared to improve its own management structures and that it is ready to make amends for the political damage inflicted on us by the Bosnian affair.
The question which arises is not just whether taxpayers' money is being used to good effect, but as far as Bosnia is concerned, centres on the public image being presented by the European Union.
Why are the Americans better at these things?
They are not better people, after all.
Nor are their officials any better or worse than our own.
But they do have a clear strategic notion of what is important and they have effective machinery.
When it comes to Bosnia, we could do worse than learn from the Americans.
I would ask the Commission, and in this case Mr Liikanen, urgently to take note of the fact that Bosnia is not the only problem.
My belief is that the Commission also has a problem with DG IA.
We naturally discharge the Commission as a collective body, but as this collective body is able to take part in today's debate, it must be capable of amending its internal structures in such a way that when something nasty occurs in a certain area, then there is a mechanism for putting this right internally.
I am sure that Mr Liikanen and Mr Santer will make good use of the time between now and 15 September to focus on this matter.
Parliament will then be in a position to deal with you in quite a different way.
