Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Vice-President Marín, I believe that each and every one of us in this House feels revulsion for Saddam Hussein and his regime.
There can be no doubt about that.
Nevertheless, we must be clear, in view of the political climate, especially in the Arab world, when and on what conditions a military strike can be successful.
In my view, Europe must insist on three things, in solidarity with but certainly not in subordination to the policy of America.
Firstly, the aim of any military strike must be clear.
So far, it has not become clear to me.
We must be as sure as possible that after a military strike the situation will be better for peace and better for the development of the whole Middle East region.
Secondly, there is no question that the situation in the Middle East is not improving but deteriorating.
This has been pointed out frequently by the EU and in particular Commissioner Marín, as well as the President-in-Office of the Council.
A few years ago it was still possible to organize as many Arab countries as possible in a coalition against Saddam Hussein, which is impossible today.
It is a fact that we have a policy of obstruction by the Netanyahu government; it is a fact, without making comparisons, that even Israel does not recognise and does not implement a UN resolution concerning the Lebanon.
This produces a negative atmosphere in the Arab world and we must be clear that any strike which is not properly thought out, extremely well considered and well supported will make this atmosphere even worse.
Europe must bear that in mind.
Lastly, as regards the role of the United Nations, I would not like to say now that it is essential to have a Security Council resolution.
There are various legal interpretations there.
But we must all be clear about one thing: the weaker the consensus in the Security Council and the United Nations, the more negative any effects will be, particularly on the relationship between the West and the Arab world.
It must be Europe's task to get America to support the United Nations fully, now in the case of this mission, but also in the Security Council, to ensure as broad a consensus as possible; otherwise, the military strike becomes a slap in the face of the Arabs and ultimately also a slap in the face of the Europeans who seek a good relationship with this region.
