Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if today, on the strength of Mr Anastassopoulos's excellent report, we finally agree on common principles for an electoral system for the European Parliament, this will be a quite decisive step - and one which has long been overdue - towards greater electoral democracy in the European Union.
It is very encouraging to see that we are in agreement on the basic principles of proportional representation, or rather that we are on the verge of reaching such agreement.
In this connection the political representatives from the UK, who prepared the way for this measure, deserve every respect.
It is quite vital for us to recognize that proportional representation will provide us with a more vigorous and dynamic parliamentary system.
This will have particular benefits for the European Parliament and for the political union of Europe.
Why?
Because this political union is still unfinished and still has no fixed constitutional structures.
It is therefore very, very important for this Parliament to keep an open mind when it comes to many of the political policies and, as far as I am concerned, to territorial interests and ideologies as well.
This openness is vital, for what we do not want to see is a Parliament made up of two blocks with rigid voting patterns and so on, as tends to be the case with the first-past-the-post electoral system.
As we enter a historic phase in European history it is particularly important that we have a Parliament capable of open debate.
The rapporteur has adopted just the right approach in attempting merely to define the principles of universal suffrage.
This leaves room for national political traditions and cultures - which is a very important factor.
Let me now raise a number of points which have an important bearing on this debate.
Firstly the matter of constituencies.
It is right that these should be limited to the larger countries and it should be made quite clear that the principle of proportional representation should not be affected by this in any way.
Secondly the percentage hurdle.
In my view the 5 % being proposed for the larger nations is simply too high.
It would be deplorable if possibly millions of voters in the larger countries were not to be represented in the European Parliament.
I therefore hope that we will lower the 5 % hurdle.
Now two more fundamental issues.
The first concerns the compatibility of a seat in the European Parliament with one in the national Parliament.
Let us be honest - if you take your mandate seriously, you cannot perform both roles.
My final point relates to the common European list.
If we are to take European political union seriously, we should be happy to see our citizens organizing themselves on a Europe-wide basis and standing as candidates in democratic elections.
I therefore support the idea of transnational lists in the European Parliament.
