Mr President, all the speakers have said here that the conference was very important and a success, although Turkey did not take part.
Actually this conference was conceived to involve Turkey.
I would like to associate myself expressly with this judgement, and I do not understand why the socialist party is apparently split on this question, because the former President and present Vice-Chairman, Mr Hänsch, said yesterday in an interview that the European Conference could be dissolved, and that it should be made clear to Turkey once and for all that it cannot join.
It would then no longer be possible to fulfil the purpose of the European Conference.
That has not been stated here, and I am surprised that former presidents do not give this opinion here in the House, but in press statements.
Since the decision of the EU Summit in Luxembourg, relationships between Europe and Turkey are in a difficult phase, and likewise those between Germany and Turkey.
I will not mention the reasons, but when we consider how to improve this situation, we must discuss the preconditions which were formulated at the Luxembourg Summit.
I think that parts of these preconditions were such that Turkey could not be a member without loss of face from the start, because border questions which are disputed between Greece and Turkey were made the yardstick, and not, Mr Oostlander, a question of the rule of law or human rights.
I also want to reject decisively your claim that Turkey's status as a state of law is disputed.
He does not listen, but he goes on spreading these inaccurate opinions.
I must expressly point out that in Turkey women achieved the right to vote in 1923, and that many other aspects of a democratic constitution are in place.
I demand that the Commission, the Council and Parliament should start talking again with Turkey, and that we formulate preconditions which enable Turkey to be present at the next European Conference.
It is actually the case that we must have the greatest interest in finding a reasonable basis with Turkey.
It is not the champions of the Christian West, as Mr Yilmaz said, who prevent Turkish accession, but primarily the still unfulfilled preconditions for accession.
But it is precisely because they have not yet been fulfilled that the European Conference was founded, and it would be completely wrong now to make the next hurdles for the European Conference so difficult that Turkish participation is made impossible.
I therefore ask the Commissioner to negotiate with the Council and Turkey to change this situation!
