Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, since all of us here are experts I shall, in view of the late hour make just two basic comments on the Le Rachinel report on the type-approval of vehicles and on the report of my colleague, Camisón Asensio, on transportable pressure equipment.
Firstly, it is clearly insanely difficult really to make a reality of the Single Market.
It is technical and is getting more and more technical, but we shall not be able to get out of the work.
Perhaps we shall one day manage to deal conclusively in committee with the kind of report which does not have particularly great political importance, if the Commission presents us with well-prepared reports, so that we no longer have any need to argue about slots at this time of night.
Secondly, it is nevertheless important for our colleagues in the committee to study these reports carefully themselves.
Mr Le Rachinel was, as it were, in the fortunate position after careful checking to be able to say: I need only one amendment.
And everybody agreed with him.
Colleague Camisón had more difficulties.
He had to deal with 28 amendments because on the important question of inspection, he had become involved in discussions with those in the industry who were directly affected and came to a different point of view.
I am very grateful that he worked out this complicated point so well.
But it is important that we bear in mind that both reports are not only reports for the Single Market, for more business and for more trade.
Rather both reports, as the previous speaker has also said, are quite important for people's safety on the roads and thus for the protection of the natural environment, since accidents which occur can not only kill and injure people, but accidents with dangerous goods can cause incalculable damage to nature, in the water and in the soil.
Therefore, I thank you sincerely for these good reports.
We shall take the trouble to study these reports carefully.
I thank the two rapporteurs and we will await the opinion of the Commission.
I hope that the Commission does not immediately discard 20 of Mr Camisón's 28 amendments, but we shall wait and see.
