Mr President, I am very pleased that Mr Bangemann has covered the essential points in his brief statement.
I have to say quite honestly that I had hoped that we would not be debating this until November or December, when we shall be discussing the report on the Transatlantic Economic Partnership once again.
The decision would also have been taken by then in the Committee on External Economic Relations.
The die is sometimes cast differently from how one plans, however.
We know how difficult it is to have a balanced transatlantic relationship.
Our basis is a good one, reliable and stable, and we can see how important this is in view of the worldwide turmoil around us.
Europe's citizens above all hope for stability and reliability from transatlantic relations.
We can lead the way together with the Americans on human rights and democracy, and introducing labour and social standards in the multilateral negotiated package.
The European model fits well with the American model in this respect.
Nevertheless, we are certainly experiencing some considerable differences and losses due to friction on sensitive issues, particularly in the area of trade.
An important point which you have already addressed is naturally the Helms-Burton Act.
Unilateral sanctions, as the Helms-Burton, d'Amato and ILSA cases have made clear, have not exactly shown the best side of American economic policy and have raised the question time and again of whether economic policy is not being confused with foreign policy here.
Certainly, those who caused these conflicts were our colleagues in Congress and the Senate.
I am sure that we can only avoid this absurd dispute if we succeed in formalising parliamentary relations.
The euro will also have its part to play.
The delegation for relations with the United States, led by Mr Donnelly, has made some excellent proposals in this respect which we should then discuss in November and December in the context of the report on the Transatlantic Economic Partnership.
I welcome the proposals and the progress which you have described in this area, and I hope that we can agree with both the Commission and the Member States on this.
Many differences can be explained by the tensions between existing common interests and values and global economic competition between the EU and the USA.
This became particularly clear in the GATT negotiations and will certainly also come to light again when the new round is opened.
Besides, the Americans have a preference for negotiating unilaterally.
However, many differences also result from the very emotional competition to claim leadership in managing international conflicts.
Europe's weakness certainly also becomes particularly apparent here.
I want us to succeed in introducing parliamentary control and establishing democratic relations between the Congress and the European Parliament in the ensuing discussions.
Then we shall be able to remove many of the difficulties.
Otherwise, I think we shall be running into the same dead end again and again.
