Mr President, the Committee on Legal Affairs has thought very precisely about what it is doing.
Ladies and gentlemen, Maria Berger has given a comprehensive report on experience with the 1985 architects' directive, and has said everything that needs to be said about it.
I do not need to add anything to her thorough work on the matter.
We all have good reason to approve the report and the conclusions.
However, I would also like to know why it has taken eight years to get this subject on the agenda.
The answer is part of a dark chapter in Europe's history.
Our constituents at home are perfectly justified in summing up their feelings in a single sentence - and they often do - ' I am fed up with Europe!' .
For them, Europe is full of slackness and ponderous bureaucracy.
The recognition directive, which is supposed to give architects professional freedom of movement within the Union, is an example of hair-raising slackness and ponderousness which it is hard to top.
The Council, governments and the Commission have all played their own part in this tragedy.
Act I of the tragedy of failure: it took eighteen years until the directive was finally adopted in June 1985.
During that time, measured by length of study, four generations of architects were deprived of the civil right of professional freedom of movement within Europe.
At the same time, the European Community outgrew the architects' directive.
Finally, with the enlargements in 1973 and 1981, four new legal frameworks had to be taken into account in the law, which in the end was ten pages long.
Act II: instead of the 24 months agreed at the negotiating table, it took ten years to fully implement the directive!
Meanwhile, the European Community grew because of German unification and another three new members.
During this difficult period, it was only thanks to the breakneck working speed of the German federal government that a simple letter from the Commission was answered in just two years!
Act III, but not yet the final curtain: instead of 1990 at the latest, the Commission submitted the report on experience some eight years later, with the approval of the Member States.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am sure that our citizens totally fail to understand such sloth.
Act IV, and provisional climax of this appalling play: before we had had a chance to give our views on experience with the old directive, the Commission brought forward an amended version!
They have thus treated the freely and directly elected European Parliament with contempt and trampled on its democratic rights.
One last word.
The principle that the European Union is there for its citizens and not vice versa really needs to be observed better in practice.
