Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first like to thank the two rapporteurs for their reports.
I am delighted at the optimism expressed by Mrs Mann, and I essentially agree with her, so I need not repeat anything there.
Anyone who complains about the US should be fully aware that annual trade between the European Union and the US is over $250 million.
Just try converting that into jobs!
We are the most important investors in each other's markets, and the European Union and the US have derived the greatest benefit from the liberal world order.
On the other hand, it is clearer with EU-US relations than in any other area of policy that a Common Foreign and Security Policy for the European Union is of momentous importance.
With all due respect to the efforts made by the European Parliament and by the Commission, be it by you, Mr Bangemann, by Sir Leon Brittan or by many others, the importance of European institutions in the foreign policy of the US is only secondary.
As long as individual EU Member States are competing with each other in the US, and as long as the US has the impression that on matters of substance it is hard for European politicians to speak with one voice on current foreign and security policy, it will be difficult for American politicians to recognize our political will.
Conversely, we have had ample opportunity in recent months to witness the smugness and even arrogance with which the US Congress in particular approaches important decisions on foreign trade policy, without caring a jot about what the rest of the world thinks.
Helms-Burton-d'Amato is just one example.
But it is not just we Europeans who are shocked by this kind of policy; the US can also pick on Canada, Mexico, South America or anybody else without meeting any resistance worth mentioning.
Since the collapse of communism, the behaviour of the US has become increasingly high-handed, not least because it has become the only remaining long-term world power and automatically assumes responsibility for solving problems, as if it is expected of the US.
We even call on the Americans for help in solving European problems, because we are so reticent.
We must agree to speak with one voice in future if Europe's interests are to be defended in the numerous transatlantic organizations.
We proved how good this can be at the WTO meeting in Singapore, but by the time we had reached Amsterdam we seemed incapable of finding an answer to foreign trade problems that went beyond the immediate, and instead fell back on tolerance and experience.
Ladies and gentlemen, this is one of the options, and Mr Donnelly is pushing for some kind of contact between this Parliament's delegation in the US and the US Congress.
But we really have to ask ourselves if any country or organization has any chance of influencing Congress' foreign and foreign trade policy, if even their own US President has the greatest difficulty in getting his views heard and implemented.
Experts on the US would say that Europeans' greatest mistake in the past was to be too respectful and too quick to compromise in various dealings.
I believe that we should realize that with 370 million consumers and with the interests that the US has in Europe we can take a firmer line than in the past and say quite brutally what our interests are, and not be too hasty to compromise, which gets us nowhere fast.
The fact remains that the US and Europe are dependent on each other.
The third world, Asia and Africa need us to take a common stance so that we cannot be played off against each other or approach our responsibility for events there differently.
I hope that both the reports before us will contribute to this recognition, that we can undertake much more together than we have in the past, and that the Commission will succeed.
