Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a trades unionist recently said that come the year 2000, the employers' notion of the ideal textile factory will be one located on a ship which always ties up wherever salaries are lowest and furthermore - and there is plenty of evidence to support this - where work safety and trades union rights are limited, where social costs and social insurance are minimal, where profits at highest and where the market is the most promising.
No-one can do anything about the last of these, namely the market situation.
Businesses will naturally seek the shortest route to the consumer, but surely we do not want to see the European ship operating as a global pirate.
A mechanic working for a European car manufacturer has a right to an uncontaminated, clean and socially-just workplace, no matter whether the factory is in Stuttgart or in Campinas down in Brazil.
Neither can we see why the European board of a multinational company should justify its relocation to one of its branch establishments, where production costs will be cheaper, solely on the grounds that labour costs have forced such a move.
For this reason we need controls and this is why we in the REX Committee organized a hearing and have submitted the report which is to be adopted today at the second attempt.
It is certainly regrettable that at the last vote a number of members of this Parliament allowed themselves to be taken in by the monstrous argument that the report was full of social stuff and that this would have to be amended in committee.
Well, this has now been done.
The reported has been amended and, interestingly enough, the changes which have been made seem to take even more account of the social aspects.
This is now common knowledge.
After all, cars do not buy cars.
But let me just make two points.
Multinational companies need a code of conduct which enshrines the fundamental principles of the ILO conventions and environmental guidelines.
All companies abiding by this code should be listed by name in the EU's Official Journal.
We also call for companies which do not play by these rules to be excluded from EU subsidies and for this reason I would ask you to agree to our amendment.
The same should indeed apply to export credit insurance, for surely those who really take account of human rights should find some reward for their particular entrepreneurial spirit.
Let me just say something to Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel.
It is dreadful in my opinion that someone submitting amendments should a) not be present at the hearing and b) again fail to attend the final vote on the report, when really one should be there in order to present the amendments in question.
You cannot treat our Committee this way.
Mrs Plooij-van Gorsel can read this part in the Minutes, for I know that she understands German perfectly well.
The Sainjon report is an excellent piece of work.
I can endorse much of what Mr Schwaiger has said.
We in the Committee on External Economic Relations support the report.
