Mr President, who actually still believes in this House that the demands articulated by Mr van Dam - for improvement and harmonization of driving and rest periods and for an improvement in the control systems - can still be achieved?
I have been a member of this Parliament since 1989 and this is a demand that has been made time and time again.
We know that enforcement takes different forms within the European Union.
I can judge this fairly well from a German point of view, too.
Because the system is not working and will not work, we need to have improved recording equipment in the vehicles.
The digital system is a correct way forward, but it should not be introduced without used vehicles being retro-fitted with the driver-specific smartcard at the same time.
The tachograph needs to be retro-fitted; we have the technical facilities to do this.
The periods quoted here, namely until the year 2003, are much too long.
Furthermore, the reduction for vehicles licensed since 1996 is totally absurd because we know for a fact that 10 and 15-year-old vehicles are driven mainly in the countries of central and eastern Europe, and they will be driven for some years to come.
I need to refer to something else, too, particularly where the situation in central and eastern Europe is concerned: it was 1995 when the tachograph was introduced.
I think it is asking too much to now lay down the digital system at one go, so as to transfer to a new cost-effective system after five years.
The interim solution would clearly be more acceptable.
We have - or could have - the following paradox: for example, new vehicles fitted with the digital system from 2000 onwards might no longer be able to enter the countries of central and eastern Europe because the appropriate reading equipment is not available there and their police are not equipped with the necessary apparatus.
You can just imagine the way things might develop for us under certain conditions!
The chance to arrive at a comprehensive solution, e.g. one involving intermediate stages, better monitoring of drivers' hours, the introduction and implementation of better social legislation, has not been seized.
Finally, Frits Castricum: it is not only German industry that is ready; we know that companies in Great Britain, in the Netherlands, in Italy and in France are ready too and possess both the technical and technological know-how to change things!
