Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, shaping Economic and Monetary Union is not a job that can be left until 1 January; it has to start now.
That means that the form of economic policy cooperation will have to be the central theme of the Austrian presidency because - for the first time - there will be several Euro-11 Councils during this Austrian presidency.
We in the European Parliament cannot emphasize enough how important it is that, on the one hand, the reconciliation process between the countries in the euro area should work, and that, on the other hand, links with the Economic and Financial Affairs Council should be maintained.
Accordingly, it is a matter of particular concern to us that the informal Ecofin Councils and also the Euro-11 Councils should be conducted with more transparency and information for the outside world than has been the case in the past.
After all, we are all affected by the decisions taken here in these vital areas affecting the economy, growth and employment.
The stability programmes that the Euro-11 countries will have to submit will also be discussed for the first time during the Austrian presidency.
I would like to remind you that it was the European Parliament that specifically succeeded in getting investment trends in both the public and private sectors included in the stability programmes.
I would welcome an undertaking from the Austrian presidency that it will not just be a question of analysing, but also - and above all - of developing, because what the European Union lacks is the organization of growth in the private and public sectors.
We really cannot afford that if we genuinely want to fight mass unemployment.
This is a fatal weakness in the European Union, and the stability programmes are accordingly very important.
However, they should not adopt an excessively rigid approach nor should they frustrate our other political endeavours.
The stability programmes should not lead to a situation whereby the convergence plans of the 'pre-ins' are implemented more strictly than stipulated in the Maastricht Treaty; we do not want to end up with a split.
I would like to make one more point.
The Austrian presidency has quite rightly pointed out that the last hour of that presidency will mark the end of the 14-currency Europe and the transition to a single currency for the 11 countries in the euro area.
This old continent has actually managed to meet present-day challenges by creating a new and single currency.
In the field of economic policy coordination I would also like to see us making a start during the Austrian presidency on interinstitutional agreements, on the multilateral surveillance procedure, on the procedure for excessive government deficits and on economic policy orientation.
We need Parliament, the Council and the Commission to act as partners, and it would be good if the Austrian presidency could finally tackle this issue in the interest of democratizing the European Union's decision-making processes.
Despite the experience of the Congress of Vienna, Austria is required to arrange the celebration of the happy event on 31 December, on New Year's Eve, to mark the birth of that beautiful baby, the euro, to the proud parents.
I believe that the euro must be ushered in such a way that everyone in the European Union, and above all its citizens, will know it is welcome.
