Mr President, it certainly shows the incompetence of European environmental policy that we are now setting limits for VOC emissions some 20 years after one of our Member States, namely the Federal Republic of Germany, introduced laws to control this very problem.
I have heard a lot today about the problems facing industry.
Many speakers have mentioned the competitive economy.
Why are we not talking about those whose health has been ruined by chemical products?
Indeed, the fact that we are not doing so is equally disgraceful.
I know many people whose lives have been affected by solvents.
Surely it is time for us to create standards which will ensure that fewer people will have their health damaged in the future.
After all, we should not forget that costs do not just apply to industry but to our public health service as well, not to mention the many cases of personal suffering and other problems inflicted on those whose health has been impaired in this way.
We are very concerned indeed about the substances being used in the chemical industry and I would ask you, Madam Commissioner, to look into this matter.
Such substances are used a great deal.
We know that they are carcinogenic and we also know that endocrines are involved - and these are quite specific issues which Parliament has also been looking into.
It is precisely because of the carcinogenic and oestrogen-like effect of such substances that we must make a start on restricting their use as far as possible and on giving industry incentives to find replacements for them.
This too is a question of competitiveness.
We need to exert pressure for the withdrawal of products which are dangerous and which constitute a threat to health and to the environment.
This would ultimately give us a competitive edge since we would be supplying the market with less dangerous products.
At the moment our primary concern should be to reduce the range of substances used by the chemical industry.
I would ask you, Madam Commissioner, to examine why the Commission is not prepared to follow the European Parliament's tougher approach and why it continues to hide behind the coat-tails of industry.
Let me close with the plea for an immediate reduction in these toxic substances so that appropriate incentives can be offered to the industrial sector.
We should not forget that the European Union has many citizens whose health has been impaired by chemicals, and our concern for them should be equal to - or even greater than - our concern for the interests of industry.
