Mr President, Mr Linkohr, who spoke just now, asked why we should not consider trade in water, and added that water is after all just an economic commodity.
He seemed somewhat surprised at the excitement this subject arouses in countries with abundant water.
I am from Austria, and there is great excitement in my country about this, so perhaps I can help him a little here.
Many people in Europe think that every problem can be dealt with by treating it as a commodity.
Everything that there is a demand for is a commodity.
They treat cloning this way, and book price maintenance in Germany - everything is a product and you can consider everything in that light.
My question is, how do we consider things?
Why do we not think about the causes of water shortage?
Why do we not think about a European strategy for European water legislation, a legal, political and technological strategy for sorting out water management problems, for water conservation and reutilization?
Why do people not worry about the mistakes made in agriculture and the single crop farming methods that are contributing to this water shortage?
What about agricultural reform?
I think that the confidence of people in these water-rich countries is important.
It is vital that politicians recognize the value of this commodity, Mr Linkohr, that they should have some notion, for example, of the contribution Austria's centuries-old water laws have made to giving my country its present level and quality of water reserves.
But no-one is suggesting doing anything like this at European level.
Instead, wherever and for whatever reason there is a water shortage or water quality is inadequate, we envisage simply bringing in water by pipeline from places where it is still available, and imagine that we will have solved the problem in that way.
That breeds mistrust, and that is the reason for the excitement we have seen, and we need to have a complete rethink if water is not only to be treated as a commodity, but if people are also to be aware of its value.
