Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any discussion of safety on Europe's roads inevitably involves talking about ignorance, repression, dangerous negligence and criminal complacency.
And that goes for politicians just as much as drivers!
Any debate about improving safety is bound to turn around the facts that we have already heard several times today: 45 000 dead and 1.6 million injured every year, or 123 deaths every day on Europe's roads.
The deaths alone are equivalent to virtually wiping out a medium-sized European town every single year.
So it is good that the Commissioner and the Commission have brought forward a programme to promote road safety.
Pam Cornelissen deserves enormous respect for his very comprehensive report and the details it includes on the causes of accidents.
Indeed, I would not have expected anything else from him.
Improving road safety implies a whole range of measures - life-long road safety training for young and old, all kinds of technical measures both on the roads and in vehicle safety - airbags, safety belts and lights are just the headline issues - and special protection is needed for the most vulnerable road users: children, the elderly, pedestrians and cyclists.
However, in my view there are two things that are absolutely central, two issues on which our fellow citizens need to be more aware and politicians need to have more courage.
Alcohol and speed.
The following rule of thumb seems to apply: the more you have drunken and the faster you drive, the more people are killed and injured.
The opposite also applies of course.
That is why we need a radical approach to alcohol limits and pan-European speed restrictions.
However, I find the Commission's call for speed limits too vague and too open to interpretation.
Back in 1990 Parliament voted clearly for the following speed limits for cars in EU Member States that at present have no limit: 120 kmph on motorways, 100 kmph on ordinary roads, and 30 or 50 kmph in residential or built-up areas respectively.
This Parliament has to stand by the decision it took in 1990 and fight for it to be implemented.
If individual Member States decide to introduce even lower speed limits, that is something we should applaud and support.
Anyone who says comprehensive limits will not work should look at the limits for lorries, that has been a success story for Europe.
If we can have a speed limit for heavy goods vehicles, why not have one for cars too?
We should leave no stone unturned to achieve the Community target of reducing deaths on the roads to 25 000 by 2010.
Every victim of a traffic accident on the roads is a victim too many, and I therefore urge you to support my amendment.
