Mr President, it is the goal of the European Union to devise an asylum policy which helps the real refugees, that is those who are entitled to refugee status under the Geneva Convention, and, secondly, to prevent abuse of the right of asylum.
Amsterdam set the course for a route to a common asylum policy.
The Dublin Convention which is currently in force is a first, quite crucial step towards the development of a common asylum policy.
The tool we are now discussing, the Eurodac system, is a tool which ensures that those who need help actually get it and prevents those who are abusing the right of asylum from doing so.
So it is a good tool.
The proposal put to us by the Council is a tool which is acceptable and which helps to achieve the European Union's goals in terms of asylum policy.
What the committee with its restrictions and tendentious conclusions has made of it, on the other hand, does not help us achieve the goals we have set ourselves.
When you consider that if an application is re-presented, although it has been rejected by only one State, the same applicant and all his or her arguments have to be heard again in all the other Member States, this represents a huge amount of time and money.
Our systems are overloaded and at the end of the day we are unable to offer help or guarantee asylum.
As my second point, I should like to note here that, due to a proposal from the committee, it is not possible to compare fingerprints with those of applicants who have made applications in their own countries, even though this would show us that only a small proportion of the applicants are actually suitable candidates for asylum.
These are single figure percentages in each of the countries, which, in fact, means that very many applications are made without grounds.
I know of cases in which up to ten applications for asylum have been made in different states and yet people still say that the right of asylum in Europe is not abused.
We have to do something about it.
We need to ensure that, in general, those who support the fingerprinting of applicants for asylum are not looked at disapprovingly; otherwise, we would be giving the wrong signals and going down the wrong path.
We need the Eurodac System because it supports a good and proper asylum policy and is designed to stop abuse.
So we will support Eurodac in the form that has been proposed by the Council.
However, I - and this also applies to the European People's Party Group - cannot endorse the proposals coming from the committee.
