Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Agenda 2000 caused a great commotion but there is, as yet, no coordination to be seen, as the Member States are rejecting the Commission's script.
Heated fights for allocation, owners of assets who make their presence felt - and in the midst of all this, we lose sight of what is actually at stake; the great, great settlement with central and eastern Europe.
But what are the rules of the game?
The first is that enlargement is only possible if the agricultural and structural policies are reformed.
Secondly, some better-off regions are excluded from current aid, and indeed this applies both to Germany and to Sweden or, for example, Spain.
If the German Länder demand that budgetary risks for the Länder be prevented in the finance regulations, it is recommended that they use the interim deadline of four to six years to guarantee this for themselves.
Thirdly, unlike the previous speaker, I believe the Cohesion Fund should be dissolved following monetary union.
However, if the Spanish government and others wish to cling desperately to it, it should be said honestly - and the rapporteur does allow this opportunity - that we cannot in principle deny Poland, Hungary, the Czech Republic, Slovenia and Estonia access to it; this is the logic of the game.
Those who demand things for themselves also achieve things for others.
Fourthly, if we are going to haggle about money, then let us do it properly; this would mean clarifying the net contributor debate, particularly as far as Mr Waigel is concerned.
The justice gap can only be closed on the income side and not on the expenditure side.
Those in favour of reform must also be in favour of dismantling agricultural subsidies.
A reduction of the British rebate in agricultural subsidies and a possible move to co-financing would at the same time pave the way for a general corrective mechanism.
If we adhere to these rules, there will be some kind of coordination and we will have a script which will finally allow us to reach the end of negotiations.
