Madam President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office, people's expectations of any new presidency are great, especially when a young member of the EU is taking on the job for the first time.
As you have heard here today, the confidence we have in Austria is equally great.
As the presidency changes every six months, which many justifiably consider to be an inherent weakness in the EU, we need to keep our feet on the ground and neither exaggerate nor play down these expectations.
The scope for action is dictated in advance.
At the Cardiff Summit the Union imposed a deadline on itself.
The intention is to deliver the reforms of the common agricultural policy and of the Structural Funds, and to lay the foundations of the future financial framework, by March next year, in other words just before the European Parliament elections.
It will be up to the Austrian presidency to present an overall package with options for a definitive solution.
This is a mammoth political task and you have had a taste here in Parliament of the immense differences of interest within the European Union.
You will have to reconcile the differences between net contributors and net recipients, between those afraid of being milked and those afraid of being short-changed.
The need to achieve a consensus is therefore the order of the day, together with a conviction on the part of Europe that solidarity in the European Union must clearly offer something in the interest of fair burden sharing.
For this reason alone, Parliament must be involved in making a decision on Agenda 2000 in good time, as Mr Hänsch has just said.
I am delighted that you want to work on the continued development of the interinstitutional dialogue.
I hear the good tidings and I am not lacking in personal faith.
This process started under the British presidency, and it now needs to be consolidated under the Austrian presidency.
There is too much at stake to keep Parliament on the sidelines on the preparation of Agenda 2000, which is supposed, after all, to prepare the European Union for the new millennium and the period beyond.
The fact is that our citizens are directly represented through this body.
It is here that the much-trumpeted subsidiarity can become a reality, and Europe's citizens are expecting it to be given a fresh impetus.
You in particular were influential in calling for the employment title to be included in the Amsterdam Treaty, as a commitment to concern about jobs.
The EU should not run out of steam now that the euro is to be introduced.
The economic boost expected from the euro must be reflected in fresh growth and new jobs, especially for young people.
But that alone is not enough.
Research with applications in industry must be encouraged.
I urge you as President-in-Office of the Council to work for a high-powered version of the Fifth Framework Programme for Research.
That is no place to make savings, it would be a false economy.
The European Union, and on this I am totally in agreement with you, needs to be strengthened at all levels, as otherwise it will not be in a position to make the project of the century, the enlargement of the European Union, a reality.
If we look around, at the Kosovo crisis, at the tension in Cyprus, and at the impasse in the Middle East, then we can only draw one conclusion, and that is how important it is to strengthen Europe from the centre, and that means accelerating from the centre and dynamizing the enlargement process.
You have declared your intention to do this.
My colleagues and I in the European Parliament will support you.
This, too, will strengthen the credibility of the European Union, and you will have to play an important part in achieving this.
