Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I refer to Annex V of the Rules of Procedure, Article 1(1)(b).
This deals with the reproduction and distribution of reports from the Court of Auditors.
Let us remind ourselves of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It frequently refers to transparency but in the last few days I have had to ask myself what the actual state of transparency and openness is here in our House!
Firstly, it is absolutely preposterous that an official interim report from the Court of Auditors on the reimbursements and allowances of Members of the European Parliament has been available to the President for about a month, according to our information, that it has been available to the Bureau since 13 May, but that not all the groups have been informed.
Moreover, Members of this House have not received this important document, and have had to obtain details from the press!
I have to tell you that I think that both the President and the Bureau have behaved in a really irresponsible way in this matter and that such behaviour leads to mistrust on our part.
(Heckling from Mr Wijsenbeek) We call for the immediate publication of the report, both internally and externally, and demand information on whether there are further reports or whether there is an annex, for example.
Secondly, it is completely unacceptable - would you please shut up, Mr Wijsenbeek - if a subject which affects all members of all groups is discussed and decided upon by the EDU behind closed doors and excluding our group, the ARE Group.
Our Secretary General was expelled from the room this morning.
That is why we are calling for a special session of the Presidents' Conference because it is inadmissible that such decisions, such debates whose scope really affects each and every one of us should be handled in a body on which all of the groups in this House are not represented!
(Applause) Thirdly, our strongest criticism is directed at the way in which necessary reforms which have long been called for are being systematically delayed and obstructed in this House, reforms which are desperately needed if the European Parliament wants to be credible, if it wants to be accepted, if it wants to seek more rights for itself.
(Noise) The report from the Court of Auditors tackles precisely these shortcomings...
(The President cut off the speaker)
