Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard some points made here today by Mr Pirker and Mr Nassauer which I would have liked to reply to in person, but these gentlemen preferred to move on to other activities, following their vigorous words.
This is often the case, by the way.
As the previous speaker pointed out, Mr Lehne put a lot of work into this report, and I would like to make two points regarding what he said, as rapporteur.
Mr Lehne, we will certainly give further consideration to your requests in the votes.
In the amendments submitted by the committee, there are two possible versions to which we must indeed give further consideration.
I thank you, as rapporteur, for drawing our attention to this.
I would like to ask, however, what is actually at issue here.
We must try to distinguish between what we want to achieve and what the current reality is.
Here Mr Nassauer says, in well-chosen words, that the European Union is not an immigration country or an immigration region.
A few weeks ago we all complained about having so much illegal immigration in Europe.
So what is going on?
Of course we have illegal immigration in the European Union.
Why do we have it?
Because we are an immigration zone.
We cannot create a world of our own choosing.
So Mr Nassauer must be honest and say that we do not want to be an immigration area.
That is something else, but that we actually are one is indisputable.
That we do not want this to happen in a disorganized way, on the other hand, on this point - and on this point only - I concede that Mr Pirker is right.
So, if we want to organize it we must proceed relatively objectively and not in a controversial manner, even if we are in the middle of an election campaign in Germany and it is, of course, fun to stir things up a little.
However, what are we actually talking about, Mr Lehne?
Amendment No 48 states: ".. may request ... an extension' .
People who can apply for an extension - yes, at least this is still possible - can also be rejected.
So it is by no means a guarantee, but merely a recommendation.
According to Amendment No 49, admission "may be granted ... for the purposes of paid employment in order to fill a job vacancy ".
"Granted' does not mean that it is guaranteed, but that this is at the discretion of the Member State in question.
According to Amendment No 51, the right to exercise family reunification may be exercise subject to application, which in Germany means following detailed examination.
You know this as well as I do from experience at local authority level.
In Amendment No 52 the difference is that you want to admit children below the age of legal majority and we want to admit children in the immediate family.
Well, we can argue whether this concerns only children who have not reached full legal age or the grandmother of the person in question.
The European Union will not fall apart as a result of this.
Because you know this, Mr Lehne: in your own Amendment No 80 on students and other applications for purposes of taking up employment, you have very nicely written that this chapter, as strict as you would like it to be in your recommendation, does not prevent Member States from having rules which are more favourable to applicants.
On this point we are in agreement again, after you made quite a radical change.
I therefore propose that if we can agree to try to reach agreement tomorrow on what we should allow, and to avoid controversy, then we will be serving the European Union, its citizens and those who wish to come here.
