Mr President, firstly I would very much like to thank the rapporteur, both personally and on behalf of my group.
He has done excellent work, and the report was also his initiative.
Had it not been for him, if we - by which I also mean the Committee - had not acted promptly, this report would probably not only have bypassed the European Parliament, it would also not have given the appropriate signals to national parliaments.
It will now!
My group has tabled an amendment, and I hope that all the groups have given it their attention.
We are calling on national governments and thus parliaments to withhold their consent to the completion of the negotiations and the conclusion of this agreement in May.
Sir Leon Brittan is with us today, and I hope that he will convey this signal to the Commission.
We think it is important to give a signal now so that governments, national parliaments and the public are alerted to this, and so that it is made crystal clear to them what the agreement is all about, and that it is vital to carry on negotiating to achieve a satisfactory package.
It is quite possible that it would then no longer be meaningful to continue these negotiations in an OECD framework, and that it would then be advisable to pursue the negotiations through the WTO instead.
I know, Sir Leon, that you will probably not be very happy about this, because you think is perfectly appropriate to have a package for OECD member states which provides certainty for investment, and above all for investors.
We do not have any quarrel with this, but would it not be wiser to pursue it via the WTO?
We share a healthy scepticism about a number of points with most of the parties to the negotiations.
One point I would briefly like to mention is the definition of investment.
The investments protected include direct investment, portfolio investment, and everything which can be categorized as intangible investment, including intellectual property.
The third category in particular goes way beyond the results of WTO negotiations and I have grave doubts about that.
The second point is that in the context of continuing liberalization, an arbitration procedure would be introduced giving investors the right to take legal action against Member States.
However, the reverse would not apply, so Member States would not have the right to take action against investors.
This is another crucial point.
I have a whole string of other points of criticism that I will unfortunately not get to now.
I would be very pleased if you could take these on board in your negotiations, and I know that the Commission is already aware of this.
Once more, I urge you not to conclude the negotiations this May.
