Mr President, I should first like to thank Mrs Mann most sincerely for her report and for the excellent work which she has done generally for Ukraine, including her contribution as a member of the delegation.
Mrs Mann started off by pointing out that the report had a certain technical content.
From the number of Members present in plenary one immediately knows when a really technical report is on the agenda.
On the other hand, this report undoubtedly has a very significant human angle, something which has been given too little attention.
We should not forget the degree to which the stability of Ukraine is dependent on support from the European Union.
Ukraine is without doubt one of those countries of the former Soviet Union which, in spite of the huge economic problems facing it, has succeeded in making the greatest apparent progress from a European perspective.
It is a country which has found its own route, and a relatively stable one at that, out of the complex mass which was the Soviet Union.
That is why it is so important for us in the European Union to show our support for this independent route and to show that we will continue to provide support in spite of all the difficulties.
As Mrs Mann and others have stressed, Ukraine has taken on certain responsibilities in association with the World Bank and other institutions which are ready to lend financial assistance.
I believe it is extremely important that the financial package should include Chernobyl and the Chernobyl auditing criteria.
Mrs Mann also supports this view to some extent.
We used to say at one time that we would support Ukraine in the building of the ROVNO II and CHMELNITZKY IV nuclear power plants, provided that Chernobyl is shut down in return.
I do not think - and I am speaking as an Austrian - that we really intend this to be the correct solution to the problem.
We must support Ukraine and enable it to build up its infrastructure in such a way that it can do away with these dangerous Russian reactors altogether.
Helping Ukraine to take an independent road should now be our main concern.
