Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I support Mrs Berger's explanations and congratulate her on her report.
I would like to add a few brief comments.
The great benefit of all recognition directives is that they make Europe simpler in practice for the individual - as we are always demanding - that they make freedom to set up business anywhere a reality for the first time, and above all that they open up new employment opportunities.
In this connection, I would like to point out that mutual recognition of educational qualifications in the EU is also the logical consequence of the EU educational programmes, which give financial support to measures to give credit for study in other countries, and I would therefore like to call for considerably increased resources for ERASMUS and ECTS in future.
Furthermore, we should resist all attempts to undermine the recognition directives, as has happened for instance with teachers, in case after case, for chauvinistic reasons.
That causes enormous damage to the European ideal in the workplace, and creates a negative image of the EU in the press.
The architects directive as a whole has proved itself in practice, but if more traditional forms of education combined with long periods of practical experience are to be put on a par with more recent qualifications, then that should be made clear again here.
Finally, another important point: Mrs Baldi's demand, which incidentally was against the votes of my party in the Committee on Culture, that the minimum study period should be raised to five years as a condition for mutual recognition, is highly questionable in terms of European policy.
I say this because, as has already been mentioned, it would at a stroke wipe out the mobility of thousands of architecture students in higher colleges of technology.
That would be a big step backwards for European policy, and we here would not want to be held responsible for it.
The proposal is also unjustified and hasty in itself, because the formal minimum study period alone does not decide the quality of education, but the actual time spent studying, which varies from country to country, and the average number of hours per week during term.
I do not want to go any further into that, but I would just like to say that Amendment No 1 with the proposal to introduce means of compensating for different periods of study is dubious and should therefore be rejected, please.
