Mr President, after some irritation over treaty changes, a vote of no confidence and so on, the RandzioPlath report is now before us in a version on which we can agree to a large extent.
The European Parliament today shows by a convincing majority - at least in the vote - that it is conscious of its great responsibility for the independence of the Central Bank and for the lasting stability of the euro.
The Christian Democrats have one signal to give today.
It is that we want a European currency which contributes, within Europe and globally, to ensuring that the citizens can rely on having long term political and economic stability.
But such a signal must also be demanded from the Heads of States and Governments.
Their task now is to appoint the President of the Central Bank as soon as possible.
Trust in the euro and European monetary union depends on the time and progress of this decision.
But - and I must say this openly - anyone today who, like the SPD candidate for chancellor, Gerhard Schröder, calls the euro a deformed premature birth, disqualifies himself as an interlocutor to be taken seriously.
How will such a man carry through a long term European policy, if he gives way to moods and vague fears and, against his better judgement, deliberately denigrates the greatest project of the post-war period?
I appeal here to the Social Democrats in this House: put a bit more mental effort into finally teaching your own candidate for chancellor the ABC of European politics.
Mr Schröder may manage to buy a steelworks at the taxpayers' expense and to sit on the Volkswagen Supervisory Board, but he is not up to forming a strategic monetary policy or to buying Rolls-Royce.
That needs political heavyweights like Kohl, Waiger and Stoiber, and not SPD lightweights like Schröder and Lafontaine.
If the Socialists in this House do not manage to help their candidate for chancellor back onto his feet in terms of European politics, they remain paper tigers, and the man from Hannover will bring them yet more horror stories about Europe.
We, the European Christian Democrats, want to make our contribution to making the euro into the most important and most stable currency in the world, next to the dollar.
We owe that to our citizens!
