Mr President, I have to say that I am torn between anger and despair when I read that the EU should play an active role in promoting peace, security and stability in the Great Lakes region.
In view of the absence of the UN in recent weeks, in view of the passive attitude of the European Union and the withdrawal of humanitarian aid, all talk of responsibility or even the claim, Mrs van Bladel, that it is now the Africans who are to blame for everything, is enough to make me sick.
We cannot so quickly rid ourselves of the responsibility for the monsters we created as colonial powers in Africa.
Of course, it is a positive development that the Africans have begun to recognise that they have to find joint solutions for their major regional problems.
Despite its failure, the Victoria Falls meeting was a useful start.
They have joint responsibility for ensuring respect for human and civil rights, which at least means that borders become less important.
Mr Bertens is absolutely right: the European Union has the opportunity to begin a new chapter and to help the Africans to find their own solutions.
In addition, we should not behave as if friendly relations with Bill Clinton give us the right to take unilateral military action.
Of course, Uganda and Rwanda do not have the right to introduce a unilateral military solution as they see fit, and we cannot now push Angola into the background because it has resisted this.
Nor can we simply declare Unita to be a political opposition party after 30 years of civil war and the sabotage of the peace process.
Unita must at last fit in with the constitution of the second Angolan Republic and assume a constructive role as an opposition party.
This is what almost all Angolans want.
The forces of democracy in Congo have made a series of demands which we should actively support: defence of unity and self-determination, opening up the government for democratic forces, precise arrangements for future elections, clear dissociation from xenophobic tendencies, mobilisation of the interministerial commission for the protection of Tutsis and expansion of this to the whole territory, establishment of a ceasefire, withdrawal of all foreign troops and return of Congolese refugees to their home territory, the need to establish clearly who attacked whom, use of the media to promote peace propaganda rather than the propaganda of war and hatred, and, not least, provision of a peace-keeping force to ensure peace between the Democratic Republic of Congo and its neighbours in the Great Lakes region.
This is a programme that we can really do something about, and if the Union would commit itself to achieving it with all the diplomatic measures at its disposal, we could really give the people of this region fresh hope.
