Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, to put it simply, the Group of the Party of European Socialists will vote in favour of Mr Posselt's report.
We shall do so for several good reasons, including some which are not directly related to its substance, but to the rapporteur, upon which I shall elucidate in a moment.
When I entered this Parliament, I was given a lurid description of Mr Posselt.
I shall not repeat everything I was told about him, but he will pardon me for saying that he can generally be described as a 'hardline right-winger' .
Over the years I have established that it is simpler to be a hardline left- or right-winger in this House.
We get on better if we talk to each other openly and honestly.
It is immeasurably better to speak plainly from one side or the other instead of developing wishy-washy formulations which nobody can understand!
That, Mr Posselt, is why we have been able to cooperate with you positively on this report.
Surprisingly, you have not only maintained an open style of communication within our committee, but have adopted a host of our suggestions into this report.
We are very grateful to you for this, because it helps to ease an ideologically charged - or doubly ideologically charged - subject.
The eastward enlargement of the European Union is also difficult to discuss because we are, of course, burdened by the fifty years since the Second World War, which were always strained by the division of continental Europe and the dictatorship of communist repression.
We know that forces are still active in the very areas in which we have to work together - which were originally involved in this repression - namely, justice and the police.
Particular attention is thus logically required on our part, and this has to be said, even if it is not easy.
If we are talking to future partners who have decided in favour of democracy, but do not admit that they were not always democracies and that, of course, the leftovers of the apparatus of repression are still present in the current machinery of government, that is a truth which must be looked straight in the eye!
So that is an explanation of why we necessarily require training, and why we must provide an introduction to the basic structures of the democratic state governed by the rule of law for those who have little experience of them.
That is why the proposal to establish a European Academy for Internal Security is a very good idea.
I do not know whether it has to be in Deggendorf, Mr Posselt.
Let us attribute that to the local elections in Bavaria!
We appreciate that you have suggested it here.
It could also be somewhere else, but Deggendorf is a nice place!
Right at the beginning of the enlargement negotiations, Mr Posselt tried to make it clear in both his report and the discussions - correctly repeating it today - that the enlargement of the European Union must not be submerged in debates on economic, financial or currency policy.
No: we must maintain a lively interest in ensuring that the precise area of the third pillar of integration gets special attention.
Wherever there is a transition from a command economy to a market economy, we can observe that the underground economy flourishes and blooms - or more precisely, organized crime finds fertile ground like no other, with inadequate or no legislative measures accompanying the process.
If police and judicial cooperation are inadequate, due either to infrastructural shortcomings or to a lack of knowledge, it is disastrous.
That is why your report's proposals are an urgent necessity.
When I think of the applicant countries with which we have now opened negotiations, the crux of this area appears to be the question of money laundering.
There cannot be a greater magnet for crime anywhere than the opportunity to convert ill-gotten gains into apparently legally-gotten gains.
For this reason, special attention must be given to legislation against money laundering and cooperation in these negotiations.
There is a shortcoming in the third pillar, which we currently practise - namely a deficit in democracy, about which I complain repeatedly.
As the European Parliament, we do not have enough rights or powers to act as a legislature.
This will become more difficult if further states join and police and judicial cooperation remain in the third pillar, unless there is sufficient transfer of powers to the Union.
We shall then increase the democratic deficit which already exists today, if we already know there is an urgent need for harmonization on one hand, to fight the European Union of crime which already exists, but permit ourselves the permanent luxury of national sovereignty on the other.
We must try to penetrate the consciousness of the Council of Ministers with this report and anchor it in the consciousness of the national governments, as Mr Posselt has indicated.
Then we shall be making progress!
