Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sufficient tributes have been paid to this historic occasion.
Nevertheless, I would again like to thank the many people who are not in the limelight and who have helped make this historic weekend possible.
This naturally includes the many interpreters working in the booths around us.
The euro will become a strong currency, despite the negative noises coming from the chancellorship candidate from Hanover, who believes that the euro is premature and will be a sickly infant.
In fact, the euro is coming into the world after having been on a diet for several years and after following a strict fitness programme.
The stability pacts which have been agreed, and which were again ratified at yesterday's meeting of the Ecofin Council, will help the young euro to develop with a clear eye on the future, instead of losing sight of life's objective, for too long stricken with the burden of high government debt.
Properly equipped, the euro will now be in a position to win the confidence of our citizens.
This will put out of business all those whose ill-considered remarks have been confusing the issue.
The main focus for the coming months should now be a well-planned information campaign, primarily via the electronic media, which will give our citizens answers to those questions which are still outstanding.
Each and every Member State should realize that from 1999 it will not just be the large and medium-sized enterprises which will be using the euro as currency - the State too will have to set a good example.
Each government must incorporate the euro into its functions and must ensure that the new currency becomes part of daily life, and hence part of the national consciousness, as quickly as possible.
The consumer has a right to transparency - and above all transparency in the relationship between the national currency and the euro.
This should be achieved through voluntary dual pricing from 1999 to the end of 2002, which should rule out the possibility of potentially costly transfer scenarios during the first half-year.
On this day, 2 May, we are giving the green light to the euro.
We in the Group of the European People's Party intend to keep to our commitment to follow the clearly defined objectives of EMU towards a better future.
