Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we can all still picture the catastrophic floods which struck the Czech Republic exactly one year ago.
Huge misfortune swept over man, beast and countryside and the horror of the people of central Europe was all the greater because they lived in a region which had suffered hardly any natural disasters.
My country and Poland were also affected by the misfortune.
However, the seriousness of the situation was matched only by the solidarity shown to the victims in the form of active and financial assistance.
It is estimated that the floods in the east of the Czech Republic cost 3.5 % of the gross domestic product.
If we approve the proposal to help the Czech Republic with the cost of youth programmes from EU funds then this is, in my opinion, a continuation of the solidarity which was the silver lining in the horrendous events last year.
Besides, and I have no intention of hiding the fact, this solidarity is not completely altruistic.
After all, it is vitally important to the community of states of the European Union that the youth and training programmes continue to attract our Czech neighbours, who are instrumental in the process of enlargement towards the East.
The participation of Czech citizens in the training programmes calls for partnerships, mobility, exchanges and the preparation of information in which the EU Member States and our associates have an equal interest.
This indivisible link in this instance between the interests of the European Union and those of the Czech Republic is yet again positive proof of the fact that the process of fusion with the countries of central and eastern Europe has already begun.
We should remember this.
That is why I would like to thank Mr Elchlepp for his excellent report and subscribe to his conviction that we must intervene jointly to ensure that funds are maintained and increased, as we shall otherwise be unable to help these young people.
This is something which we shall tackle together.
