Madam President, I am speaking now to express my view that Mr Cot needs to show proper respect for his colleagues in his dealings with them: for example, he voices the suspicion that we are not capable of reading the text because it is identical with the amendments which the Parliament introduced.
It is one thing to say that it is the same in substance - which one might argue about - but it is another thing to claim that the text is the same.
In any case, I am not saying that you have been bought by the gene technology industry.
I was not the one who started causing offence!
That is the first thing.
The second thing is that the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development cannot introduce any amendments in this procedure nor can it introduce them in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, because that can be done only by individual Members with the appropriate number of signatures, namely 29.
The Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development has written a letter to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, which is not the subject of the procedure, but in order to express the fact that the position of the Parliament was not accepted in the question of "farmers' privilege' .
As rapporteur, in discussions with colleagues, I gathered these 29 signatures in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and introduced them, because that is what is envisaged by the procedure.
The fact that there were socialist Members on the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development who were somewhat hesitant in adding their signatures cannot be taken to mean that overall this was not an expression of the views of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development, Mr Cot.
I must protest if you seek to give the impression in Parliament that I might mix personal interests with the interests of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development!
I will not put up with that, make no mistake!
If you want a fight, you can have one, otherwise please take matters seriously and show respect for the dignity of your colleagues!
