Commissioner, it is already quite some time that here in Parliament we talked about Mauritania, and I am afraid that this is because this country is spiritually so far away from us and also unfortunately because we have to some extent expelled it from our minds.
I am fully convinced that we, as Europeans, bear much of the responsibility for the present situation in Mauritania.
Of course, what is condemned only in cases of emergency must be condemned absolutely.
But we should consider what we can do better.
If we look at the situation and consider that in the 1960s Mauritania - on a very low basis - was still a relatively wellfunctioning nomadic state and really only the great famine and our utterly wrongly applied development aid led to the situation there which we now see, namely that all the nomadic inhabitants have gathered around Nouakchoff, the capital, just waiting for the aeroplanes which came with aid, which has led to the situation that they no longer in any way lead their normal lives with their normal social structure, this should really give us food for thought and we should consider how we can manage things better in future.
The fact is, - and that has been appropriately documented on television - that there still exist horrors such as slavery.
But we must also consider and say that the international community of states is really called upon to do everything in its power - and this applies not just to Mauritania, but also to other states where slavery still exists - to bring this situation to an end.
The old slave route still of course operates in Africa unfortunately.
There are of course other states - I am thinking for example of Mali - which have a similar situation, with which we must all be concerned, but then please in cooperation with the Arab League.
For we cannot do it alone, we must work along with our partners on the spot in the appropriate manner.
If a country like Mauritania wants to meet its obligations, keep the Lome-Agreement and accept appropriate standards, then it must also take full heed of certain standards which we set.
