Mr President, Mr Santer, colleagues, there have been several treaties - the Maastricht Treaty, the Amsterdam Treaty - in which we have repeatedly expressed a commitment, for example in Article 6 of the Treaty of Amsterdam, namely the demand that environmental policy and protection should not only be included, but should also be a high-level objective in determining and implementing Community policies.
I have been in this Parliament for nine years.
I know what we say we will do, but I also know what our achievements are.
What we say we will do is always splendid, and the British Presidency's achievements have been outstanding, but now, in common with this House and also, I hope, with the Commission, Mr Santer, I have high expectations as regards the Cardiff Summit.
If it is our conviction - and, as far as I know, it is the conviction of the British Presidency - that environmental policy is an important Community objective for the people of this Union, and if, at the same time it is our conviction that fighting unemployment is the most important task that we have to face, we should be sufficiently intelligent to link these two objectives.
If we can prove - and we can do so - that environmental policy, higher environmental standards, new environmental standards, developed with the Commission, with the European Parliament, but also with our partners in industry and the trades unions, that these new policies can create jobs, that is what we have to do.
Are we doing it?
No, we are not!
Unless we finally start to incorporate environmental standards and protection and the checking of environmental compatibility and sustainability into all other Community policies, we can forget all the other speeches here.
Then Mrs Bjerregaard can give up her work, I can do the same, and so, too, can large parts of the Union too.
So we have to change things.
What will we change?
We must have binding framework legislation which says that environmental policy is part of transport, energy and economic policy, as Mr Donnelly has already explained.
It is no longer enough for this to appear in Article 6 of the Treaty.
I am tired of reading treaties - I have done so long enough as a lawyer - and I also know what they can amount to.
I would like to see the Commission being supported by the Council Presidency, by you, Mr Cook, by the British Council Presidency and by the new German Government after 27 September of this year in ensuring that the integration of environment policy into other Community policies is obligatory.
I would like to see a binding commitment to this end, that means I would like to have from you, Mr Cook, and from the Cardiff summit an obligation on the Commission to submit framework legislation, and I do mean legislation which imposes an obligation, not another meaningless commitment!
In conclusion, allow me to say the following.
When I was a child, I liked to play with soap bubbles.
You can blow them up and they get really big, they shimmer with all the colours, they're very impressive, then they lose their colours, burst and disappear.
I have no desire to see yet another summit lose its colours, burst and disappear.
Please, Mr Santer, please, Mr Cook, make sure that after the Cardiff summit we have obligatory legislation and that environmental policy is an integral component of all other Community policies!
