Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 1989/90 was a turning point in world politics.
During the Cold War era, we were concerned with managing the status quo - now we are trying to manage change.
All aspects of transatlantic cooperation are affected by the dynamics of this change.
That is why it is right and proper that we are debating relations between Europe and the US here in the European Parliament today.
There are critical questions to be addressed: for example cooperation on security policy or in the field of foreign trade and the world economy.
It is both desirable and necessary that Europe should play an independent security policy role.
But it has never been so clear in recent years as in the Balkans how important US participation is.
The US will also need to play an active role in resolving the conflict between Greece and Turkey and the Cyprus situation.
A more effective common foreign and security policy for the EU Member States is also important here in the context of strengthening transatlantic relations.
We Europeans are also united with the United States by a common interest in open markets and free world trade.
We should work on the assumption that the world can only achieve economic growth and prosperity if we do not revert to the old ways of protectionism and isolate ourselves from each other, but instead open ourselves up to competition and develop our economies in open, competitive markets.
Listening to today's debate, it is obvious that there is no future for Colbert here.
Our weak point is often that Europe is not competitive enough.
Cultural, spiritual and religious bonds tie America and Europe together in spite of any economic and political tensions.
We should take care to nurture these common roots more carefully in future, because they serve to bind us together and will do so all the more in the future.
A transatlantic community needs to be based on our community of interest, not our conflicts of interest.
If the western world's societies, and I mean the whole western world, cannot lend each other support based on their varying experience, and tackle the new order of the world economy and world political relations together, then we will be squandering invaluable political, economic, social and cultural energy.
