Mr President, Commissioner, the public has in fact just recently learnt that we are not the only ones who sweat working here, but that flasks sweat too.
These sweating flasks actually put people's lives at risk.
You have said that there is no risk.
That is not quite true.
If the hot spots where this sweat concentrates come into contact with the human body, these people are at risk.
Some of them work on these flasks and others watch over them.
Not that they sweat because they are being watched.
So there is a real risk.
What is remarkable in this whole story, however, is that the public has only just found out about these sweating flasks, while the people who operate the flasks have known about it for a long time and have been measuring the sweating for a long time.
So now let me put the question to you, Mr Commissioner.
You must know something!
You have a standing working group.
You discuss transport matters.
It is a close community with its ear to the ground.
I can imagine many scenarios, but it is really possible that no one knew anything about the measurements these operators were taking?
Or the fact that COGEMA had additional facilities built to clean the returned material in advance?
Was the Commission really unaware of all this?
No, maybe you do not know anything!
The whole thing is quite inconceivable.
For this reason I should like to know in greater detail exactly what the Commission knew and when.
Looking at your new statement on the work of this standing working group, it says very vaguely that there was no risk because these incidents and accidents were few in number and limited in consequence.
Please, exactly what accidents and incidents happened with the flasks?
This is where I think the vital security leak lies.
There were obviously some people who knew something but chose not to share this knowledge with the public.
Then, of course, I have a much more specific question.
If such knowledge was available, what did the politicians responsible do with it?
Did they knowingly deny this knowledge?
And what conclusions should they now draw?
You cannot simply act as if the Commission suddenly received this knowledge in May like a bolt from the blue!
As for the industry, it is not just because certain best-sellers are doing big business at the moment that I should quote Lenin, but the motto "confidence is good, control is better' seems very apt in this case with the hushing up of security problems and accidents, particularly in the nuclear industry, so topical.
As far as I can see, at the moment the nuclear industry, which has known about these sweating flasks for years, is no longer a reliable source of information.
I urge the Commission to make sure that if there is to be cross-border transportation of radioactive waste, that checks, uniform standards and a reporting duty should be introduced.
At the end of the day this is just another example of the fact that there is no absolutely safe final storage for nuclear waste.
It is simply pushed back and forth across borders.
I urge the Commission to act in the interests of the citizens of Europe and not to become an accomplice of the nuclear industry, trying to make energy policy against the will of the majority of the population of Europe.
It makes for a shaky structure, a colossus built on shaky foundations.
This is the reason I simply cannot understand why your statement, from which I have just quoted, states in this important area that the question of security is discussed not from the point of view of risks or the concerns of the population, but simply in terms of how we can gain greater acceptance.
No, the Commission must serve its citizens and not individual industries.
