Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the report before us on the competitiveness of the European textile and clothing industry sends a clear message.
This sector has for a number of years been faced with major changes and challenges, and its competitive position and employment policy measures are matters which will continue to be the subject of intense debate.
In Austria this sector of the economy is the one which pays absolutely the lowest wages.
The industry is a major employer of women and is under increasingly fierce competitive pressure, with the result that many businesses have had to close.
About 2 million people are currently employed in the European textile industry.
Since 1990, as we have already heard, some 600 000 jobs have been lost.
The Commission has now devised a plan of action to counter this trend.
This is a very welcome initiative, and indeed proposals of a more concrete nature could also be drawn up with a view to providing support for small and medium-sized enterprises and increasing the competitive potential of this sector.
Of course attention must also be paid to promoting innovation and the use of new technologies, which in the long run will provide the key to success.
It seems to me to be particularly important - and my amendments should illustrate this - not to distort competition or to discriminate against businesses operating in the home market.
The textile and clothing industry is in a rapidly changing competitive environment.
This applies especially to third countries, where the circumstances are often quite different.
I also wish to refer to the amendments proposed by Mrs Ferrer, which seek more effective action against unfair practices by deploying every available means of protection laid down by international agreement.
There should be no discrimination against the exports for these markets.
I wish to conclude by saying that training measures are of course particularly important for the clothing industry, as in the long run consumers will only buy the goods they want.
This is the key to the unemployment problem.
We simply have to ensure that the products available in this area are those which the consumer wishes to purchase.
I believe that training is one of the most important instruments here.
We have to provide training not only for the technical staff but also for those on the managerial side.
We must try to introduce the latest business management methods and for this reason we should take every possible action to ensure that a proper training strategy is adopted for this sector.
