Mr President, first of all I would like to say a belated "good morning' .
I am pleased to see, Sir Leon, that you have taken the opportunity to make a statement when, due to pressure of time, we can neither reply to what you have said nor even really go into it.
I am pleased about the appraisal of the work of the European Parliament, the resolution and your gratitude for our presence in Geneva.
I can guarantee that we will continue to push for collaboration and we are grateful for the small measure of cooperation.
Naturally, at the start of the round in Geneva, the emphasis was more on celebration and proclamation, because 50 years of GATT was indeed reason enough to celebrate.
It was a look back at a time of success.
We focus on what we have achieved so that criticism of what has not yet been done will be made relative.
As the European Parliament, we should have had higher expectations; we should have urged the Commission and the Council not to let the USA have precedence alone.
However, we also know that European Parliament criticism of the fact that not much has been achieved in terms of trade, the environment and social norms is largely down to the developing countries themselves quite understandably dragging their heels on these issues.
We should also take care not to overburden ourselves with our own demands so that what we hope to achieve will remain credible.
The previous speaker said he expected more demands by the European Parliament.
I would say, conversely: in the decisions, the hearing and many other things we have had a part in, our expectations have often gone beyond the realms of possibility for what could be implemented at the time; however, I may be wrong here.
Sir Leon, I am pleased that we will be having another round in New York.
The Commission is assuming that it will have to be a major round.
The Commission must not limit itself.
It must ensure that everything is addressed.
Commissioner, with that as a policy, you can count on the support of the European Parliament.
