Mr President, we need to say something here about the economic substance of the revolution which we are signing up to on all sides.
I have in mind the immediate de-localization of credit money, whose localized vulnerability we are currently witnessing.
The fact that credit money is now being jeopardized all over the world by the present crisis in Asia is just one indication of this.
We are thus witnessing a new degree of separation of monetary cycles from the real economy and from the primary income that can only be derived from that economy, and accordingly also from the material reproduction capacity of economic structures as a component of a complex world society with increasingly global problems and planet-wide responsibility.
This is the context in which we are preparing to introduce the euro.
Mr Ruffolo, a stable and credible euro will not, in the medium and long term, be a consequence of monetary policy, either solely or even primarily.
It will be determined by the credibility of the European Union, by which I mean here the extent to which it can find democratically workable answers for the future.
I am still not convinced that the neo-liberal plan for a revolutionary micro-economy society which Mr Stevens has presented to us, which tries to turn all interaction into buyer/seller, creditor/debtor or quite simply market-related interaction, is the right model to guarantee this future capability.
We cannot just see our citizens as consumers.
Mr Donnelly, we know that the plan has now become unstoppable, and that the euro will be introduced.
What is at issue now is what is still possible, even if Luxembourg I and Luxembourg II have only yielded unsatisfactory results, by revising the conditions for the introduction of the euro.
I can only describe this in headlines here.
We need an effective European employment policy.
We need economic policy coordination which amounts to more than generating paper but instead establishes a real framework and sets real objectives.
We need to end all forms of dumping and competition for the location of investment projects in the internal market, whether it takes the form of taxation, environmental standards, social security arrangements or subsidies.
We need to allow the European Central Bank and also the European Central Banking System to establish themselves as part of a wide-ranging social and economic policy process.
In other words, instead of a micro-economic revolution, we need the courage to introduce greater democracy, especially in economic and social policy, so that our citizens, who are now becoming more active, are given greater power and fresh perspectives.
