Mr President, one of the previous speakers mentioned the costs we will face in changing over to the euro.
However, we must not forget the costs incurred now because the euro does not yet exist.
For example, if I were to take my family on holiday to Spain today, I would have to travel through Germany, Italy and France, and get five currencies to pay for food, drink, petrol and hotel bills.
That means going to the bank in my own country and getting the five different currencies.
Often, you cannot get them straight away, they have to be ordered.
This creates a lot of work for the bank, as various employees have to deal with it, and the currencies have to be kept on the spot and be readily available.
The total cost of all this for tourists is enormous.
Tourists pay an average of 3 to 4 % in commission and other charges alone, money that could well be spent on something more sensible, such as a slightly longer holiday.
But my figure of 3 to 4 % is just an average.
There are also extremes, of course.
For example, last year my daughter put 100 Austrian schillings in a money changing machine in Jesolo and got 9 600 lire.
When we were back in Austria I gave her back the money, and even rounded it up to 10 000 lire, and she got just 50 schillings back in Austria.
That means she lost 50 % of the value just by changing it and changing it back once!
I am sure that this is an extreme case, but when you consider that just changing back and forth once can involve amounts of this order, you will soon realise how much is at stake when millions of tourists are changing money.
Not only that, but there is also an exchange rate risk for tourists.
Parities can change during a holiday, and people booking well in advance are even more likely to be hit.
We even know that patterns of tourism follow exchange rate movements, so that tourism in Italy is rocketing, while it is falling in Austria and in France.
So tourism is plagued by uncertainty.
We have to struggle with these and related problems every day.
We must resolve the currency situation for tourists, and there are international implications as well.
Tourists travelling to Europe want clear price comparisons.
They need to know how to convert.
Of course a lot of tourists have enormous difficulties with conversions.
We often find that a product's value is not immediately obvious when we have to convert to and fro.
It is also necessary to standardize VAT regimes.
I often find it very hard to grasp when I can reclaim my VAT, how much VAT I pay here, in short exactly how the whole thing works.
Lastly, duty free is another area affected by these regulations.
Tourists want clear arrangements so that they can travel simply and without too much hassle.
We are well aware - and this is particularly important for Europe - that we do not just have tourism inside Europe, but also beyond.
We have about 60 % of the world market in tourism, so we are a real competitive force in this sector, and this represents an enormous opportunity for us.
