Mr President, Mr González Triviño's report on safety assessments of third countries' aircraft has now also been unanimously adopted at second reading, as it was at the first.
The report is of particular importance because it involves the safety and lives of both crew and passengers.
If the European Union guarantees the free movement of people, then it must also assume responsibility for the safe movement of people.
The passengers who take advantage of cheap flight offers are, in particular, more often than not unaware of the dangers of the journey they are undertaking, especially as they do not receive any reliable information on whether safety problems have been detected and with which companies.
We have made good progress with the draft directive on the way towards achieving the complete safety of all passengers travelling by air in Europe.
Parliament and the Commission quickly agreed during their discussion of the directive that effective protection for passengers is only guaranteed when ramp inspections are carried out on all aircraft everywhere in accordance with a common inspection list.
At the same time, the Member States and the Commission must fully inform one another about the inspection results and measures taken against third-country aircraft.
The Member States must finally take common measures against aircraft which have safety problems.
We will only achieve the greatest possible safety at airports in the European Union when the system of carrying out inspections is standardised and third-country aircraft can no longer avoid the system when flying from one Member State to another or from one airport to another.
The safety net which we are tightening must not be so broad-meshed that it is possible to slip through unnoticed.
Against this background, I cannot understand - and nor can nearly all my colleagues here in the House - why the Council has cut back the original proposals of the Commission and Parliament quite considerably in its common position.
Nor can I understand why the Commission should not be able to declare an EU-wide grounding of aircraft of its own accord.
Naturally, we respect the freedom of decision-making of the Member States.
But in what area, if not safety in Europe, would it be appropriate for the Commission to take central decisions on sanctions?
In this case, if we leave the Member States too much scope to make independent decisions, we run the risk of not achieving the purpose of this directive - safety - once again.
The freedom of decision-making of the Member States and the concept of subsidiarity must not be confused with national egoism.
I am therefore very grateful to the rapporteur for the solid and fair compromise which he has proposed in his amendments and which we have adopted unanimously.
My group supports the compromise unconditionally.
The first link between what is a matter of concern for the Parliament and the Commission, and the reservations of the Member States has therefore, I think, been successfully forged.
