Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Rocard and Vecchi reports should be approved with firm conviction.
Allow me to explain a few points.
The aim in Article 130 u of the Treaty of Maastricht is global.
Development cooperation should promote sustained development, particularly in the poorest countries, for the fight against poverty and a harmonious, step by step inclusion in the world economy.
The emphasis here is on step by step.
The Rocard report therefore points out that trade liberalization and economic growth alone are not enough to relieve poverty; there must also be access to resources and participation in decision processes.
That applies particularly to the participation of women, but I am happy to be able to say that we women no longer have to emphasize this point, because it has in the meantime become the common property of this House.
I would like to emphasize that in the course of the Lomé cooperation something like a Lomé culture has been formed, consisting of partnership, equal rights, maintenance of dialogue, mutual contractual relationships and accountability, and this means much more than efficiency aspects on the cost-benefit model.
It is a mark of the Lomé culture that conditions are not just imposed on the contractual partners, but that efforts are made to ensure that the measures proposed are supported by the country concerned, in agreement with the governments and the population.
Certainly participation on the part of civil society still leaves something to be desired.
Above all, the equal right of women to have a say is lacking, as has been mentioned.
The correct course has nevertheless been set.
That is all the more important when not just economic but political reforms are concerned, and they must or should be in harmony with each other.
Now, in a mature relationship it must be possible to say critical things, and if necessary to make use of sanctions, including the suspension of cooperation.
The Lomé agreements include this possibility, but for good reasons it is only used with restraint, because it is always better to keep talking than to break off relations.
I think that one particular aspect of cooperation within the agreement must be extended in future: close cooperation with nongovernmental organizations, particularly those which are active in the ACP countries, and not just with our organizations in the Member States.
A cooperation strategy which is tailor-made for each situation must be developed, to pick out the special features of individual regions, regardless of whether their support is national, private or public.
To a greater extent than was previously the case, the supporters of development policy can be part of a concept for the future which promises success.
One of the special features of Lomé cooperation is regional cooperation, which has long been geared to supra-regional development.
The same is true of the demand for the dynamic development of the private sector, to which increasing efforts have been applied in recent years.
I would like to close with a quotation from my general report at the last ACP Assembly, which was accepted with a very large majority: ' By common efforts, development plans which are specific, social, staggered in time, adapted to the current state of development and the problem situation, regionally differentiated and consistent, must be established, with the answers which result for Lomé cooperation arising from the subjects of the big UN conferences.'
This should be our aim.
