Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Gradin, the Commission has recognized that with the creation of the single market, the removal of border controls and progressive liberalization, common rules must be drawn up relating to migration and the rights of third-country nationals.
We are all aware of the difficult nature of this topic, as the Member States of the Union find it difficult to formulate a common policy in the field of law as it relates to foreigners.
We must take account of the reservations of the Member States if we want the voice of the European Parliament to be heard.
However, in order to avoid injustice, we must also clarify where the weak points of the proposed convention lie.
I will therefore discuss three points.
The first is the right of residence for students.
If we want to help third-country nationals improve their education we should promote this work attitude and remove obstacles.
This is also a type of development aid.
So we must allow them the same freedoms as all other students, and we cannot discriminate against them or treat them as third-class students.
In the case of family reunification also, we cannot cease in our efforts and set the level of legal protection too low.
Many states grant special protection to the family.
German Basic Law even grants special protection to the family and to family unity, in its Article 6.
We, the European Parliament, must strengthen this protection.
Thus the concept of the family is to be understood in a broad sense.
What counts is the de facto partnership, not the marriage certificate.
The welfare of the children is also important, not the sex of the partner or the marriage relationship.
What is right is family reunification involving dependent relatives for purposes of their protection and to maintain the family unit, rather than their exclusion or arbitrary admission by the relevant state.
A third-country national will invest in the education of his children, learn the language of the host country and build a secure existence if the countries are really prepared to regard the integration of these people positively and consciously.
Therefore we must ensure that concessions are made to people who come to us as third-country nationals, in terms of the right of residence, the right to vote and social law.
