Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Social Democrats, we have never had the least doubt that we would only be giving our partial support to the Council's common position on the Fifth Framework Programme for Research.
We primarily agree with its thematic structure, because this takes account of our most important proposals from the first reading, including initiatives on socio-economic basic research.
However, we have our doubts as to the adequacy of the Council's proposals on the budget, financing arrangements and management.
I would like to make four fundamental comments.
The first relates to concentration.
There is still no significant reduction in the number of areas.
A reduction in the number of projects and the scope of the specific programmes is, however, essential to serious concentration.
The second concerns modernization of institutions.
In the interests of efficient administration, the Commission must bear the brunt of responsibility for implementing the programmes.
The programme committees must confine themselves to coordinating strategic and normative issues.
Parliament must be actively involved in monitoring the implementation of the programme.
The third concerns social innovation.
Innovation is one of the key objectives of the programme.
However, innovation is not limited to a technical process; it is also a social process in need of optimization through investment in a qualified workforce and new types of labour organization.
Europe could gain a decisive competitive edge here.
This is one of the reasons why we are calling for an additional initiative in the area of the information society.
The fourth relates to growth.
The concept of growth must once and for all be taken out of the dead end which is a purely quantitative meaning.
Ecological stability must emerge as a locational advantage of the European economy and hence, the overriding credo of the programme.
I would also like to make just a few comments on the budget.
It is a scandal in the history of Community promotion of research that the Council has no intention of even keeping pace with inflation in the furtherance of research.
In real terms, what the Council has in mind is a 4 % reduction.
My party only agreed to the inter-party compromise of ECU 16.3 billion negotiated in the run-up to this second reading under the constraint of coming up with a qualified majority; otherwise, we would have set the figure far higher.
As we enter the 21st century, more Community efforts will be required in order to make decisive improvements to industrial competitiveness, to avoid large-scale ecological damage and to combat the economic exclusion of entire segments of the population.
Correspondingly, investment in research would need to be calculated in accordance with the principle of saving up to make public provision for the future.
Unfortunately, it was not possible to achieve a consensus on this with the conservative side of the House.
Let us at least join forces to demand what was agreed as the lowest common denominator in the report by the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy - the Commission's allocation entered in the budget.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her efforts, including her successful efforts to bring about a large number of workable compromises and some reasonably consistent parliamentary action.
