Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday during the debate on the MAI, I emphasized that the economy must first and foremost serve the people.
Naturally, this applies to the directives we issue.
At first reading, the European Parliament accepted several amendments to the specific directive which went beyond the remit of consumer interests to include the public interest and the interests of persons carrying on activities in commerce, industry and trade.
However, it is unacceptable that, where legal action brought by organizations is permitted, if negative behaviour has an effect in another Member State, only consumer interests are taken into account.
Such negative behaviour, as the Commission established two years ago, is detrimental to the smooth running of the internal market and leads to a distortion of competition to the disadvantage of the great majority of businesses which respect national legislation.
These distortions, in turn, have an adverse effect on consumer confidence and therefore run contrary to the interests of the public.
Time and again in the various reports we see that it is in the interests of the Union, in other words, of the public, to formulate regulations in the general good.
Nevertheless, we are quite resolute in our objection to any form of interference in national codes of procedure under the cover of consumer protection policy.
Various countries, not least Germany, have decided against legal action brought by organizations.
For this reason we wish to ensure that the aim of this directive is the harmonization of regulations in the interests of consumers, persons involved in commerce, industry or trade and the public interest.
However, in order to secure the trust mentioned previously, it is also necessary to include unfair effects on competitors in the definition of infringements against this directive.
To use the language of political opposites, it is not a question of consumer interests in the spirit of the theory of class struggle, but a definition of the consumer as it is used in business where total quality management is the order of the day.
And it is not only a one-way street, everyone involved is included.
