Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
Industrial relocations are instruments which business uses to take account of certain local conditions within the social market economy.
They are not in themselves reprehensible.
However, problems do arise when the conditions which apply at the new location contravene legal requirements, such as in the extreme case of child labour and forced labour, when women are subject to job discrimination in the relocated companies and when, for example, money laundering is involved.
But industrial relocations can in some circumstances be necessary in order to open up markets, or produce goods, in new continents which are closer to the point of consumption.
Europe's overall position, as well as that of most of its Member States - including my own country -, continues to improve and the introduction of the euro and other reforms will soon make the EU an even more attractive proposition.
In the medium and long term, companies should in their own interest consider whether relocation outside Europe is an appropriate way of being able to supply the European market from a certain geographical distance.
There are many reasons, including logistical ones, for resisting such a move.
Some companies have already begun to realize the consequences of this and are now starting to relocate some of their business operations from Asia back to Europe.
We support a discriminating free-market analysis of the wide-ranging factors which are responsible for the relocation of industrial production, and we oppose interventionist regulations which would impose a burden on companies.
All measures which seek to restrict industrial relocations should therefore be carefully looked at to ensure that we avoid interventions whose impact would be disadvantageous for the economy.
Specific framework conditions and a certain commitment on the part of the economy for company relocations can, however, be desirable for the rational deployment of public subsidies awarded in accordance with EU rules, or indeed for the prevention of fraud.
We therefore emphatically support the recommendation that the Commission should propose a code of conduct based on these free-market principles.
After the referral of the original report to the REX Committee on 6th November 1997, substantial amendments were introduced on our behalf in the course of subsequent constructive deliberations with the rapporteur.
I would like to express my thanks to Mr Sainjon for the receptive manner in which he has dealt with our proposals and for the fact that he has accepted most of them.
However, I must also refer to the amendment which he has submitted on the subject of the euro, namely Item 22a (new), which suggests that the European political authorities - whoever they are - should, by way of the European Council, reflect on the impact of establishing Euro-Dollar parity on foreign direct investments.
I believe that this recommendation is misdirected and indeed it was rejected yesterday by Commissioner de Silguy during the debate on the Ruffolo report.
The current Article 111, which was previously Article 109(1 and 2) of the EEC Treaty, cannot be interpreted in any way whatsoever to give the European Council currency-policy control in respect of the exchange rate.
The formal agreement on exchange rate systems, which is the issue raised here, is quite a different matter and, if it came to it, would concern a new Bretton Woods institution - but not the price regulation of the Euro-Dollar exchange rate.
In this area the European Central Bank alone has full and sole responsibility and its independence should not be prejudiced in any way.
Article 109 emphatically states that the European Central Bank is not to receive instructions or recommendations from decision-making bodies, from Community bodies or institutions, from national governments of Member States or from any other quarter.
This also applies to exchange-rate movements between the euro and the Dollar, whose regulation, if such is required, is incumbent only on the European Central Bank.
