Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I do not expect you to contribute to the increase in hot air, Commissioner, but to give us clear information.
Like a number of other colleagues, I would have liked to know what the guidelines actually say.
On the one hand, you spoke about 'milestones' and 'taking action at home', but on the other, you repeatedly emphasised the flexibility mechanisms.
How extensive should domestic measures be, compared with flexibility mechanisms?
In Kyoto you talked about a ratio of 50/50, and the Greens have tabled an amendment to that effect which will be put to the vote on Thursday.
I would be grateful if you could tell us clearly what the ratio is and what your position is on the amendment tabled by the Greens.
I actually believe that the Environment Committee's motion for a resolution does not go far enough.
To us it is tantamount to an act of political bankruptcy as far as climate protection is concerned, because it means that we are bowing to the interests of industry and the United States.
Reference is in fact made here to a quantitative ceiling on flexibility, but unfortunately, Mr Pimenta, the motion never once mentions the tax on energy and CO2 emissions.
We made a proposal for specific measures and for a demonstration model.
Unfortunately, it was not supported by a majority of the committee.
On the subject of emissions trading, the motion reads as though it had been dictated by the USA.
It states that unlimited emissions trading should be possible.
That is a complete reversal of policy on climate protection in this House.
This is shameful, because to fail to set limits on emissions trading is to undermine the Kyoto Protocol.
We all know that it is cheaper for industrialised countries to buy hot air, than to implement even the simplest energy-saving measures at home.
We are opposing this about-turn on climate protection policy, because we know that giving up a consistent climate policy with its associated measures also means losing our leading role.
Without action on climate both at national and European level, emissions will have increased by at least 8 % by the year 2010, rather than, as promised at Kyoto, being reduced by 8 %.
I too should like to endorse what Mr Eisma said, and ask the Commissioner to say a few words about the voluntary commitment made by the motor vehicle industry.
I find the current proposal absurd.
I do not believe that we can talk of success, when we are giving the industry 22 years to reduce petrol consumption by just one single litre.
That is, I believe, a failure for climate policy.
It really is high time to take action!
