Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation we are debating affects all European drivers and thus a large number of people, which ensures it will get attention, but this also justifies the need to give it careful consideration, which is our intention here.
Firstly, some misunderstandings must be cleared up.
This is not a matter of harmonizing road traffic legislation in Europe.
It is not even a matter of communitizing the consequences of driving offences.
The objective of the Convention only concerns disqualification from driving, which is a relatively advanced stage for drivers.
That is the sole objective of this Convention.
It has now been asked whether such a uniform ruling can be made, in view of the diversity of laws on driving in Europe.
If we, as Europeans, use the entire area of the European Union as drivers, we must also accept that uniform rules apply, in principle.
Should a driver therefore commit such a serious offence in one European country that he is disqualified from driving, it must also be accepted that this will have consequences at home.
To put it another way, road hogs must not get away with shaking the dust of one Member State off their shoes and carrying on driving at home, as if nothing had happened.
That is why this rule is correct in principle.
There have been objections from drivers' organizations.
They are quite entitled to take a critical attitude to such a regulation and we want to consider it.
The question is whether disqualification from driving can be enforced at home, in view of the differences in regulations, but also in view of the different legal systems.
It is the old story: how much Europe do we need?
Or, as a major German newspaper recently asked: "How much Europe can we stand?'
This regulation does not apply without restrictions.
It is restricted by safeguards within the rule of law.
This Convention will initially only apply to serious offences which are individually listed, not to every offence.
Secondly, it must for example be stated that disqualification can only be enforced at home if, of course, it concerns an offence which is also punishable at home.
The notorious example of someone losing their licence for drink driving in Sweden with 30 mg of alcohol per 100 ml of blood would not be implemented in Germany, because such behaviour in Germany is not normally punishable.
There is thus a host of rules which demonstrate that the principles of the rule of law apply.
However, there is a further objection, namely the differences between legal systems, of which there is a comic example.
In one of the most delightful Member States of the European Union, exceeding the speed limit can be detected by a police officer with the naked trained eye, as it is said.
This would, of course, not be recognized everywhere.
It can therefore be disputed whether it makes sense.
But if we accept that every Member State enjoys the rule of law, we can have confidence that the judicial authorities act within the rule of law in principle.
Should we enter the sovereignty of such a state, we must accept that slightly different rules may possibly apply there.
However, Europe as a whole is subject to the rule of law and we can also put our confidence in it in this area.
