Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to continue where Mrs Randzio-Plath left off, that is on the issues dealt with in Mr Pérez Royo's report, the euro and consumer protection.
I think it is right for the Commission to pay sufficient attention to consumer protection from the Commission's point of view, but we must not overshoot the mark.
Mrs Randzio-Plath, you yourself know as well as I do that if dual pricing is to extend - as suggested in Mr Pérez Royo's report - from the beginning of the third phase, that is from 1 January 1999, possibly on an optional basis initially, but then if this is not satisfactory, backed up by the force of a regulation, this will of course have a big influence on costs in commerce and may push them up.
So I should like to sound a warning note about the extent of consumer protection.
Paragraph 14 of Mr Pérez Royo's proposal, which is right on many points and which I generally fully support, asks the Commission to establish regional observatories.
What kind of suggestion is that?
Do we need regional observatories?
Anyone suggesting this, and they may indeed get a majority for it in the vote at noon today, has failed to understand that the EU regulation under Article 235 of the EC Treaty already deals with all matters of civil law: continuity of contracts, the conversion from ECU to euros at a 1: 1 rate, rounding rules and so on.
I believe that wherever there is competition, and that is the case in commerce throughout Europe, and wherever suppliers have to prove themselves on the market, there will not be any funny business, because consumers would soon notice.
I am rather unhappy about the idea of everyone engaged in commerce being labelled as potential criminals and all consumers as potential idiots.
Every consumer will have only one conversion rate from his or her old national currency to the euro.
Just one rate!
Consumers will be told that rate on 4 May 1998, and there is no question of that being settled by some voluntary arrangement.
There will be pocket calculators with an extra button - they already exist, in fact.
So that simply will not be a problem, and I am willing to bet that within 48 hours, perhaps just 24 hours, consumers will have caught on to the conversion rate, and nobody will be able to hoodwink them after that.
There is one exception, namely monopolies, especially public sector monopolies.
In that area we will have to watch that the introduction of the euro is not used to sneak in price increases.
But, necessary as consumer protection is, we must not overdo it.
