Mr President, the Commission would have done itself a favour if it had read its own papers, in particular the paper dated 3 April 1996, Commission, No 11.
Because it states, word for word, that the outside of the packaging - referred to as a "fuel transport container' causes contamination in water.
You have known this since 1996, and now you stand there in front of us acting dumb and claiming you have only known since April!
Incidentally, there is also a working paper No 4 from Technical Committee 996 6 96 which makes detailed proposals on this subject which have been included in the safety series produced by the AIO with whom you also work closely.
So, if you're trying to tell us now that the limit values were only slightly exceeded, I have to ask you whether you think we are absolutely stupid.
The limit values are 4 becquerels/cm2 and we are looking at recorded contamination levels of 50, 000 becquerels.
The only reason you have waited so long is that you were hoping the industry would solve the problem.
Except that the contamination has kept on increasing.
It has not dropped, it has increased year on year.
That is my first point.
Secondly, it has yet to be established whether contamination occurs whilst the water basin is being loaded.
Because the water basin must contain isotopes other than cobalt and caesium.
Until now, however, we have only found cobalt and caesium.
So what has happened to the other isotopes?
The cause may actually be quite different, they just have not yet been established or even researched yet.
Then, to refresh your memory, I should like to quote you something from the Euratom Directive, namely Article 2 of Directive 92/3/Euratom.
It says quite explicitly, "The transport processes required for delivery must adhere to the provisions laid down by the Community and by the individual Member States and must be in compliance with the international agreements on the transport of radioactive materials.'
If this is so, then the reverse must also be the case: if the authorities in question are unable to control things at national level - and you have been quite aware of that for years - then you too must perform your regulatory duties.
You are the guardians of the law.
As is it, the only reason this whole scandal has been revealed is because of an indiscretion, not because you were looking into it.
That is the real scandal of the matter.
Now to play that down and on top of everything else to say that the transport workers or the convoy staff were not exposed to any risk is just another example of your treating the public as fools.
But everyone knows quite well that even if you are carrying a dosage meter it obviously cannot show anything if it is an alpha emitter!
But if it is swept down through the air from a transport container, for example, and the poor policeman who is driving alongside or the transport worker gets it, then he can obviously suffer from serious radiation damage.
But he can never prove it later!
So my question to you is what conclusions are you drawing from this?
Are you finally going to give us access to the minutes of the standing working group and the studies which have been paid for over the years with money from EC coffers?
Are we finally going to get to see these studies?
It is now vital that the reliability of the operators is tested, because authorization to operate nuclear power plants is always linked to this reliability.
And this reliability can no longer be taken for granted.
You should have revoked their authorizations a long time ago.
Those are the facts.
And everything else you are trying to tell us is inaccurate.
You just have to read your own papers!
