Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ten and a half years ago, the Chernobyl nuclear reactor disaster signalled the end of Communism and the beginning of perestroika .
Today we are witnessing a return to perestroika in Moscow, which is reflected to some extent in personnel policy.
The Soviet Union responded to that disaster by entombing and isolating Chernobyl.
Today in Russia we are experiencing an economic and also political Chernobyl, but we cannot respond this time by entombing and isolating the problem.
What we need is an open, stable and democratic Russia with a social market economy.
The wheel of history cannot be turned back in Russia; new mistakes cannot be corrected by resorting to the old mistakes.
The goodwill of the European Union is there.
However, we must be realistic in assessing our scope for influencing the course of events.
Representatives of the Duma are here today, and we were told yesterday by the Vice-President of the Duma that the forces of reform were still present and intended to continue the pursuit of their goals; that is all very reassuring, but what has not happened so far in this crisis could yet happen, namely a fresh outbreak of money-printing.
The question is not only about the composition of this government; it is also about the influence its members will have and retain over the reform process in Russia.
The cause of our concern is clear.
The Russian Communist Party remains strong.
Unlike the Communist parties in Central and Eastern Europe, it has not gone down the road of democratic socialism.
We do not want to see the centre of power in the Russian State disintegrate and split up into a host of regional power bases.
But nor do we wish for a return or a seizure of power by military despots.
Not even that danger can be ruled out.
What we therefore need is a strengthening of the democratic institutions in Russia, particularly those whose mission is to guarantee the rule of law.
If we merely pump money into Russia, the wrong people will benefit.
However, one point of particular importance in this situation, a point that has yet to be addressed, is that developments in Russia make it absolutely imperative to press on with the enlargement of the European Union in order to stabilise the heart of Central Europe, so that this stabilisation can also have an impact on the situation in Russia.
