Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as always, differences in national regulations lead to distortions of competition.
Moreover, competitive pressure from third countries has also recently increased considerably.
The proposed amendments to the common position bring the harmonization process one step further forward; they are based on the revised basic conditions - the newly-developed just in time strategy, for example.
They take account of trends in the road transport of goods.
To my party, an important consideration is that in addition to the requested greater requirements with regard to the integrity of the operator, environmental protection and professional duty, there is also a need for greater requirements with regard to combating fraud in Community and joint transit procedure.
This is one inference from the conclusions of the report by the committee of inquiry concerned.
Regrettably, we cannot agree to Amendment No 8, part 1.
In this respect, we prefer the text of the common position.
In reviewing an operator's financial capacity, both capital and reserves should be considered.
In a time of crisis, for example if a major customer leaves, a haulage operator needs to be able to use more capital as a temporary measure for restructuring purposes without running the risk of failing a test of financial capacity during such an emergency, while if elements of reserves had been considered, such as unrealized gains, credit guarantees and similar banking information, the operator's financial capacity might have been judged positively.
This would ensure that financial capacity would be appraised primarily on the actual solvency of the operator.
The criterion of haulage operator integrity serves to protect the public from injury and danger.
Thus, for serious violations of relevant regulations, an operator's licence would be withdrawn.
Withdrawing licences for any offence, as originally proposed, would mean that, in extreme cases, even exceeding the speed limit could have far-reaching consequences for the fate of the firm.
This would surely be unjustifiable in terms of the proportionality rule; this was why the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights rejected this proposal.
I really must thank the rapporteur both for her report and for taking this line.
