Madam President, all over Europe at the moment people are thinking back to the words Emile Zola threw at his government exactly 100 years ago: J'accuse - I accuse.
It was the expression of his despairing resistance against a despotic power which had branded an innocent man guilty in a calculated political manoeuvre, flouted the dictates of justice, ignored the dignity of man and sacrificed him to the opinion of an enraged public.
One hundred years later we are safe in the knowledge that we have finally tamed this kind of power, finally subjected it to justice.
Yet still we are forced to watch just such an accusation levelled against just such despotism reforming in the hearts and minds of thousands of men and women at the borders of Europe who are being prevented from enjoying their human right to asylum with ever new forms of harassment, with denial and perversion of the course of justice.
We are forced to watch how justice and politics retreat in the face of a hysterical public and the mass phenomenon of xenophobia.
No other region in the world has triggered more or larger streams of refugees than did this continent in the 20th century.
Millions of men and women from Europe have been received into countless countries all over the world, very often countries themselves suffering ruin and poverty.
Today, at the time of our greatest historical prosperity, an incomparably smaller number of oppressed and persecuted individuals is taking flight in our direction.
And what are we doing?
We are refusing an ever growing number of them the right to shelter.
Instead, we are using police methods to monitor them.
European co-operation sees its only duty as being their rejection and, if necessary, their deportation.
In the face of a mere 2000 fleeing Kurds politicians conjure horrific images of an uncontrolled flood of refugees.
Phrases such as "illegal immigrants' are used.
Europe, which owes its cultural wealth to its openness to the world, is becoming a fortress.
If that "j'accuse' forms in the minds and hearts of the men and women waiting at the walls of this fortress, then it is we who are accused.
