Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to start by congratulating Mrs Daskalaki and Mr Schwaiger on their reports.
Admittedly neither of them is present, but I hope that they have not already given up hope that their reports will be considered and decisions about them made.
They are two very good reports, two short but pregnant reports, which also go in the right political direction.
What is more, both Mrs Daskalaki and Mr Schwaiger have worked very constructively with the other groups in the committee.
When we consider the situation, particularly in Bosnia-Herzegovina, we must weigh up the positive as well as the negative developments or non-developments there.
On the one hand we must say that the development in Republic Srpska has been thoroughly positive.
We have there a president who is certainly no angel on the political scene, but who has nevertheless begun to cooperate with Europe and the USA.
We have a prime minister whom we have recently been able to receive in the European Parliament, Prime Minister Dodik, whose work is thoroughly constructive.
We can surely record this as one of the positive developments in Republic Srpska.
We have not yet reached the end, and we must be careful, because the nationalists may still gain the upper hand.
Secondly, we have made progress in economic and infrastructural development.
I was recently in Sarajevo, and the picture there today is quite different, not only compared to the war period, during which I also visited it, but also in the period afterwards, up to about nine months ago, when I was last there - and that applies not only to the infrastructure, but also the life of the people and their enjoyment of living, which is becoming evident again there.
On the negative side: the return of the refugees is still faltering.
I do not say that nothing is happening, but much too little is happening.
It's a roundabout that no-one really wants to get going, and they are all waiting for each other.
The Croats are waiting for the Bosnians, the Bosnians for the Serbs, the Serbs for the Croats, or however they want to set the ball rolling.
In any case, it is still unsatisfactory, and I believe that we must do everything we can and that all of us must encourage the High Representative to continue to work there.
The second thing which is very serious is the situation in Kosovo, in Albania, in Macedonia and in Serbia itself.
We get the feeling, and the Bosnians are getting it again, that they are still in a very weak situation.
They are the only ones who have no supporting power in their area.
The Croats have one, the Serbs have one, and there is also the Kosovo problem, which is interpreted at least as a problem of the Islamic minority in a Christian environment.
I therefore believe that it is necessary to continue to have troops on the ground, even at lower strength, and perhaps with a stronger European engagement.
In that I can entirely support Mrs Daskalaki, who is just coming in, regarding her report and the Schwaiger report.
We need more efficiency, more decentralization and more coordination on the ground.
These are also some of those points to which the Commission led by Tom Spencer correctly referred.
I have been able to see these deficiencies for myself in the past few years at the Donus conference, in Sarajevo and in other places.
We have spent a lot of money, but not efficiently enough.
This must stop!
We must spend the money more efficiently.
There must be more coordination, and more must be decided on the spot.
I believe that it is impossible to control things centrally from Brussels to this extent, because we do believe that we have them under control.
We do not have them under control because our approach is a strongly centralist one.
I am therefore glad that the Commission has presented the proposals, and I am also glad that the Presidency is going in this direction.
That is due, not least, to the initiative of this Parliament.
In this way we can hope for a happy ending, the sooner the better.
