Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can understand the rapporteur's dissatisfaction at the rejection of these amendments which are only made necessary in the first place because of a new report from the Council.
I urge the President to reconsider this, because we really need these amendments.
They concern new issues that we need to vote on, in my opinion.
So I too believe it is high time we made some headway on the directive on the irradiation of foodstuffs.
A start was made many years back.
The previous speakers have already mentioned that it took the Council eight years to reach a decision.
Of course national regulations range from a complete ban on irradiation to its unrestricted use.
That means there will naturally be problems in reaching a consensus, but eight years seems a bit too long to me.
At the heart of all this are the people who ultimately consume these foodstuffs, the consumers.
I believe that they should be able to tell if a product has been irradiated or not.
The labelling requirement takes account of this and is therefore an essential component of this directive.
Mr Whitehead, we need to clearly follow the labelling directive here, as it shows us the way forward.
Madam rapporteur, you yourself have seen the problems with new signs and symbols.
They will not work.
Let us stick to what the consumer knows and write it on the label.
As far as I am concerned we could also stipulate the dimensions in centimetres or some other unit.
But consumers are used to the label showing how a product has been treated.
So I would like to make a plea that we should proceed along the lines of the labelling directive, which seems far better.
Another extremely important issue is the detectability of irradiation.
Without it, how can we spot any inaccurate information on labels?
If we are to allow foodstuffs to be irradiated, we must ensure that the interests of the consumer are protected and that proper monitoring is possible.
These proposals would guarantee that.
Furthermore, we must stick to the principle that hygiene and health provisions, and satisfactory production and farming methods, in accordance with European standards should always be given priority over irradiating foodstuffs.
We must veto any attempts to rely on irradiation instead because it might be cheaper.
We have our consumers' health in our hands here today.
We take this responsibility seriously and call for compulsory labelling and for checks on irradiated products, in order to protect Europe's consumers.
We in this Parliament naturally want to take part in the important decision-making process that lies ahead.
Nothing inspires more confidence in consumers than open discussion in Parliament.
We will certainly have enough to discuss when it comes to the list of approved foods.
