Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who wants a preventive and stabilizing policy in and for Europe must give their full support to the action plan for Ukraine, to Mr Titley's clear and intelligent report and to the opinions of the committees.
The current situation in Ukraine remains complex.
It is an impressive political achievement that the Partnership and Cooperation Agreement signed between Russia and Ukraine in May 1997 succeeded in ending or easing years of continuous tensions.
This provided Ukraine with better conditions in which to make its contribution towards stabilization in a large and very sensitive region.
In contrast to this, there are still a number of continuing internal political difficulties to be resolved.
Although the tensions caused by the ethnic composition of the population have eased, they are still very much in evidence.
There are still massive secessionist movements in the Crimea.
Cooperation with the European Union is a natural desire in the west of the country, but a topic rarely discussed in the east.
Economic reforms need to be implemented more consistently than has been the case to date.
The pace of reforms must be accelerated, not only in the economy, but also in relation to administration, legislation and the legal system.
It is undoubtedly due to the balanced and rigorous policies favoured by President Kuchma it has been possible to maintain a balance in this difficult situation and that it was even possible to make some gains in terms of external policy.
It is also a result achieved in part by the people of Ukraine, a result which bears witness to their ability to improvise, but also, let me be blunt, to their ability to endure suffering.
In a few days, on 29 March, the people of Ukraine go to the polls once again.
This will lend our opinion greater topicality and greater weight.
Aid was and still is urgently needed; it should be given in the simplest manner possible.
The aid proposed in the action plan can be structured more efficiently.
But this aid should also be provided quickly.
The current procedures raise several questions in this regard.
It took the Commission only two days to submit the plan to the Council and to inform Parliament.
The Council needed only two weeks to confirm the plan but it took almost four months from the date on which the plan was sent to Parliament for the President to announce that the committees were addressing it.
We have squandered a little too much time but the task can still be accomplished punctually.
