Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Wibe has asked for more detail in my reply about certain aspects of Written Question No 3933.
These issues, like the question just asked by Mrs Schörling, relate to the broader subject of compliance with the additional guarantees given for salmonella in meat during Sweden's and Finland's accession.
I would first like to describe the checking regime established by the Swedish authorities for imported meat.
According to our information, meat imported into Sweden from another Member State is checked by the recipient under a self-checking regime.
Any irregularities in certification are reported to the appropriate authorities.
The consignments concerned are then officially tested by a laboratory authorized to test for salmonella.
These tests are quite separate from the routine tests which producers and the appropriate local authorities themselves carry out.
The sampling method used in all these tests is that prescribed by EU regulations.
The Swedish authorities have used their own analysis method, known as the Nordic method, whereas the other Member States use the ISO method for checks in the country of origin, as stipulated in the EU regulations.
Furthermore, the Swedish authorities carried out special monitoring on a trial basis between 1 March and 1 September 1997, in order to check that the supplementary guarantee regime was being correctly applied.
In all, 569 consignments were tested and salmonellae were found in twelve.
In addition, according to our information the problems, that is the detection of salmonellae, were mainly with poultry meat, to be specific poultry meat from a particular Member State.
In such cases Article 8 of the 1989 directive applies.
This stipulates that as a first step bilateral discussions such as I have already described must take place between the Member States involved, and these discussions are currently under way.
As also stipulated in the directive, the Commission is awaiting the outcome of these discussions before taking any further steps.
With regard to analysis methods, the Council committees responsible are now considering whether the 'Nordic method' can be recognized alongside the ISO method as a reference method, with the objective of allowing the Nordic method to be used throughout the European Union as a second routine method.
