Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Orlando has submitted an excellent report on the series of tasks which the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs has tackled here in Parliament, following on from the measures taken by the Council.
The catalogue of joint measures proposed by the so-called high level group is accompanied for Parliament's purposes by a report by Mrs Cederschiöld, as Mr Orlando has already mentioned.
A series of individual measures will be discussed here in Parliament from part-session to part-session and Mr Orlando's report forms part of this series.
Basically, we need to draw three conclusions regarding what Mr Orlando has already explained in his report.
First: the increase in the economic activities which are possible in the European Union - Mr Orlando referred to monetary union and the resultant possibilities - creates an easily conceivable situation in which there are no barriers to financial transactions or to the expansion of possible economic activities.
This also applies to illegal transactions.
We therefore need cross-border instruments with which to fight illegal transactions.
Europol has been set up and will hopefully soon start working in a really efficient manner.
But that alone is not enough.
We need more than mere cooperation between police forces.
We also need the instruments for cooperation at a judicial level and that includes giving the prosecution authorities, be they the police, the public prosecutors or the courts, the facilities to work to short deadlines with as little red tape as possible.
What is the objective of every criminal?
It is to earn as much money in as short a space of time as possible, with as little effort as possible, with no respect for any ethical constraints and, where possible, tax free.
Criminals do not want their money to be dirty for ever, they want to launder it through the legal financial system so that they can use it to live undisturbed.
This is where we need to set up limits and instruments, so that when someone has earned their money illegally, we can confiscate it or withdraw the means of earning it.
The aim of the measures on which Mr Orlando has reported on behalf of Parliament is to prevent people from getting rich illegally and then bringing their money into legal circulation and we, the Social Democrats, give these measures our full support.
Nearly all the groups concur in their appraisal of European requirements and Parliament can set to work with the full backing of the House.
There are very few differences and these are only on minor details.
In principle, we are united.
If only this unity and agreement reigned between warring political parties at national level, that would really simplify matters; instead of which, the fight against crime and the related measures are allowed to fall victim to electoral campaign strategies.
I have just one comment to address to the PPE Group regarding our voting list.
We shall abstain on the amendments tabled by Mrs Palacio, not because there is anything wrong with them, but because we consider that they have already been covered by Mr Orlando.
