Madam President, unfortunately Mr Liese, who advocated environmental taxes so passionately, is no longer here.
I would have liked to ask him why the Federal Republic is not setting an example and why it has been blocking it for 16 years.
I think that we should not just talk about environmental taxes this evening; we should also ask ourselves what has become of them!
Even before the Rio Summit we had requested that there be a tax on energy, and we are still a long way off it.
We also wonder why we agreed on a zero rate for consumption taxes, which is basically only a zero figure.
After all, if we say zero rate, and the Member States can do with it what they wish, then it is more than a zero figure, it is a joke figure!
We should also ask ourselves why a two-thirds majority is adequate for the introduction of the euro and unanimity is required for environmental tax.
I would like to know whether environmental taxes are less important to the European Union than the euro!
In view of climate change worldwide and also of the worsening of the European Union's climate, is it not be urgently necessary to follow words with deeds?
An absolutely essential question is what has become of the combined CO2 energy tax.
Why do we not take up the proposal or the model of the then Prime Minister of the Netherlands, Mr Lubbers?
He talked about introducing an exemplary model which would involve our agreeing to a climate reduction target, that is defining the target but leaving the method open for now.
Those Member States who never tire of claiming that they are in favour of an environmental tax, an energy tax, must commit themselves to it, in particular the so-called friends of the eco-tax, who committed themselves to it informally in the Environment Council.
Then we would say that as from a specific date those Member States who cannot achieve this using other instruments would be included.
I think that if we were to do this we would achieve something important in that we would finally stop playing hide-and-seek and passing the buck, that is hiding as a nation behind Brussels and thus causing a deadlock.
What we need is to revive the corpse of the CO2 energy tax.
We must finally begin to introduce an environmental tax, and the environment-CO2 -energy tax would be a start.
