Mr President, President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I am the last speaker in this debate but I hope that the topics that I shall address will be placed high on the Council's agenda.
I would like to make two requests, to you, Mr Cook, and to you, Mr Santer, two requests to take an urgent inquiry from the European Parliament with you to Cardiff.
Fighting organized crime is one of the absolute priorities of the Council and of the Commission, and also of the work of the European Parliament.
We know that wherever it is possible to do business without frontiers, it is also possible to do illegal business without frontiers.
That is why, as a strategy to counter the freedom of having no frontiers which those who are able to misuse our economic system enjoy, we also need cooperation, which as far as possible is not affected by frontiers, between the police and our justice systems whose role it is to pursue the criminals who operate their network on a panEuropean basis.
The trouble is that this process, which can be so compellingly described, is not advancing as fast as the European Parliament would like.
In our view, this is in part due to the fact that, after the finely turned phrases of the summits on European integration have faded away, an integration which must of necessity be implemented in areas of the third pillar as well, the national sovereignty reserve, especially in the case of police and justice co-operation, weighs more heavily in the balance than the pragmatic necessity of co-operating at the European level.
That is why I want once again to formulate precisely the European Parliament's request which is contained in innumerable resolutions, and which was drawn up by us specifically in relation to the initiatives and the common measures subsequent to the report from the high level group on fighting organized crime, the request which is expressed in these opinions: show greater courage and go beyond the level of national governments; do more to remove obstacles especially in the case of cooperation between the police - but also between justice systems, which is no less important.
Show greater courage as the Commission and demand of the Council that more competence and authority under Community law for fighting organized crime should be transferred to you!
I consider that one of the top priority tasks in the immediate future is that we should learn to integrate Europe not only in the economic sphere, and that we should learn to organize the instruments that we need to fight misuse not only at the national level.
Unless we remedy this divergence, organized criminals in Europe will continue to have an advantage over the police.
