Madam President, Commissioner, the report presented by the rapporteur represents a real step forward, just as the package of measures put forward by the Commission has finally succeeded in stirring up the tax debate at European level.
And it is timely, because the internal market will quite simply never be completed unless we put an end to harmful tax competition in the European Union and make further progress in the areas of tax alignment and tax coordination.
This must therefore be followed, with the start of economic and monetary union, by a real coordination of tax policies which goes beyond the narrow alignment of economic policies.
And this package of measures represents a step in the right direction, as Mr Secchi has underlined in his important report.
In a world of globalized markets, the international competitiveness of locations is determined by their infrastructure and, therefore, also by their tax systems and tax scales.
Corporate taxation, in particular, is increasingly becoming a factor in competition.
There are certain Member States which are attracting inward investment through tax avoidance and tax exemption measures or tax reductions and thereby taking these resources from other EU Member Sates.
This constitutes anti-community tax competition in the form of tax dumping and is harmful to all the states in the European Union.
There is a conflict of aims between the wish of Member States to protect their fiscal sovereignty and the wish to structure corporate and capital taxation in such a way that they are neutral rather than restrictive to competition.
It is impossible to solve this problem by free competition and market forces alone.
It is a fact that tax competition in the European Union is unfair, and that income tax payers are making an ever greater contribution to the tax revenue of Member States and mobile resources an ever smaller one.
As the Commission has very rightly outlined, the burden on income tax payers has increased by roughly 10 %, while that on capital factors and corporate taxation has dropped by some 20 %.
This change in the basis of taxation has made the performance of public functions considerably more onerous and could also lead to tax erosion.
The development is dramatic because in the long run no state can avoid the pressure to reduce taxes and this can benefit only the companies, not the countries involved.
Thus, the community-wide coordination of tax policy, as suggested in the European Commission's package of measures and Mr Secchi's report, in the form of a code of conduct on taxes is a very proper aim and represents a step in the right direction.
However, it is in no way binding and this is something we should be pushing for.
At a time of European and international competition, the coordination of tax policy does not represent a loss of fiscal sovereignty for Member States, but rather a gain in sovereignty for both the European Union and its Members.
It makes sense to define profits and the way in which tax assessment bases are structured jointly and to introduce a minimum level of taxation.
Whatever happens, the tax oases in the European Union which currently allow transnational companies to transfer profits between countries in order to escape or reduce levels of taxation in their country of registration must be eliminated immediately.
As a result, I believe that we must place the tax code of conduct within the principles of free but fair competition.
We must not allow a situation to develop in which direct contributions in general are banned, but where there is no limit on subsidies through tax regulations in the European Union.
That is no longer acceptable.
I believe that the package must be expanded to include further intensive measures designed to standardize regulations and tackle new tax regimes, and also to include a comprehensive and modern system for the exchange of information and checks between tax authorities in order to create barriers to tax evasion in the European Union.
