Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, the British presidency has stood and continues to stand under the slogan 'The People's Europe' .
Since then more slogans have been added, such as subsidiarity, decentralization and renationalization, which together with this slogan could produce a highly explosive mixture.
We just had an example from Mr Le Gallou of what you can do with good principles when you mix them incorrectly and add a pinch of extreme nationalism.
Mr President-in-Office, I would like to state plainly and clearly: We need reforms!
To give one example, we have been recently dealing in this House with the question of the colour that signs on buses should have across the Community.
Even if the important question of buses suitable for the disabled were the issue, this is still no central concern of Europe's.
We need reforms, de-bureaucratization, decentralization and transparency.
We also need freedom of movement for the citizens in the truest sense of the word, as you have already said today, and this should include all levels of our national spectrum, in Europe, at national and at regional level.
I would like to draw attention to one question - perhaps more strongly than we have so far done today: it is in the interest of Europe's citizens to have more jobs.
That is why we need greater coordination of economic policy, more security, fewer wars and fewer crises.
That is why we need a truly common foreign and security policy for Europe and a better and healthier environment.
That is why we need as a minimum a European environmental policy and more democracy.
That is why we need more rights for this Parliament, that is so say more majority decisions at European level.
I hope that the current and the future Austrian presidency will not lose heart if the issue centres on the heads of government making these crucial decisions.
The slogan is the right one and it should also be pursued under the Austrian presidency.
At the same time I seek a Yes to reforms so that we really have a strong Europe where it is needed, that is to say where the interests of its citizens lie.
