Mr President, in his report Mr Pronk has clearly presented the problems and concerns in respect of the proposal for a Council Decision on measures of financial assistance for innovative and job-creating small and medium-sized enterprises.
I should like to thank him most sincerely for his valuable contribution and I hope that his proposals will be given due consideration by the Commission and the Council.
For years the institutions of the European Union have been stressing the importance of SMEs in the area of job creation.
All available figures show that SMEs form the backbone of employment growth in the EU and that this situation will continue.
The smaller the business, the more successful it generally is in creating jobs.
Various financial schemes have been devised and introduced continually since 1992, some of which undoubtedly proved successful.
In spite of this, Commissioner, I am constantly aware of criticism that the programmes lack cost-effectiveness because the application procedure for SMEs, no less, is too complicated, too bureaucratic and too protracted.
Many SMEs have to hire expensive consultants just to process their applications.
These defects should all be put right in the new proposals.
The criticism which has been expressed, namely that there is no comparative assessment of the performance of previous measures in terms of cost per job created, is sadly justified.
This lack of transparency makes it considerably more difficult to prepare the new measures which are being planned.
Nevertheless, I hope that what the rapporteur calls the 'ETF start-up scheme' , the joint European venture and the SME guarantee facility, particularly for businesses employing fewer than 100 people, will all prove successful.
It is precisely these enterprises which experience problems when it comes to the provision of risk capital.
Parliament wants to promote this through the SME guarantee facility and in so doing to create more jobs.
I therefore expect that the final amount allocated will be something which approaches what has been proposed by Parliament.
The success of the new measures is vital for the unemployed of Europe and is now a matter of real urgency.
The sooner these are implemented, the better it will be.
Our motto must be 'more jobs, less bureaucracy' .
I hope that we can quickly achieve this goal, though not, as Mr van Velzen says, by giving employers even more regulations to cope with.
That would be regrettable.
