Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, this report by Mr Bardong is another example of a report with such an off-putting title that nobody will read it.
It is presented on a particularly attractive day at a particularly attractive time, and nobody will take any notice of it, especially since we are all in agreement.
We shall follow Mr Bardong's proposals in all respects without question, and everyone will say: "What happened there?
Did anything actually happen there, and why are they talking about it?'
However, Mr Bardong has addressed the basic problem.
It is a question of the Union's own resources and the way we treat them, the correct way to collect them and pass them on to the European Union.
Even if the Member States collect the own resources it is in fact our money and not theirs.
We cannot stress that too much, and Mr Bardong has also given us the background to it.
There was a small but interesting debate on this report in the committee, and I would like to confine myself to this.
The debate has not really been conducted between the Member States, but between the Members and the Commission.
It was in fact about whether we should adopt a certain threshold value.
The Commission took ECU 50 000 as its starting point and we took ECU 10 000, as Mr Bardong suggested.
The argument now was that with a threshold value of ECU 50 000, one covers in principle the same as if one is so small-minded that one takes ECU 10 000 as the threshold value.
There is another aspect that really must be considered: this is all much too complicated.
The administration is too expensive.
This is no longer a cost-benefit calculation, and it is important to recognize when it is time to stop inspecting.
Inspection is becoming too expensive.
Now we can talk about it, administration is supposed to be efficient.
Also, the cost-benefit calculation should play an important part in the administration.
We support that.
But in doing so we send out signals.
We are saying that whatever is below this threshold is not worth bothering about.
We then check only if the inspection is financially worthwhile.
In doing so, we overlook the fact that certain existing rules were not brought in so that they could be viable and pay for themselves, but because they helped us achieve other things.
Duties are not there simply to put money in the kitty - in that case we would have to keep increasing them.
Duties are also specific regulatory mechanisms.
We protect ourselves, to some extent we protect our industries, we protect our standards and we tie them to conditions if we reduce duties.
That is politics.
That is not bookkeeping.
To that extent it is very important what standards we set when we check adherence to these regulations, as expressed, for example, in the duties.
It is not even just a question of whether the calculation works out, but a question of sending out a signal.
We do not take it by any means so seriously.
It is too complicated for us.
It is much too expensive.
If it is just a certain amount - forget it, we do not look too closely at it.
That costs more than it brings in.
Even then, ECU 10 000 or ECU 50 000 - what difference does it make?
So are all the authorities, all the tax authorities of our Community so indulgent in the case of ECU 10 000 when they are dealing with the tax of an employee?
Whole families can live on ECU 50 000 for a whole year, and ECU 10 000 - well, who pays ECU 10 000 in tax in a year?
What if they were to refuse to pay the tax?
It costs too much to chase that.
It costs more than it brings in.
It would be convincing.
Maybe we could look at it like that - I know it is an unfair comparison - and perhaps we would come to another judgment.
