Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, dialogue is certainly one of the most important and finest political tools.
So I can only say how wholeheartedly I support our having the New Transatlantic Agenda on our agenda instead of NATO.
World peace, social justice and economically sustainable development in a world where links are becoming closer every day cannot be achieved by deterrence.
Instead, what is needed is careful joint negotiation.
Because of their economic power, the EU and the USA have a special responsibility for wellbeing on this planet.
They are also in a position to take practical initiatives.
But it is not a question of circumventing international fora such as the WTO and the UN, and thus undermining their credibility.
The Helms-Burton affair is an extremely negative example of what dialogue can entail.
The EU should denounce this example, loud and clear, as an example of the extraterritorial application of national legislation.
What we need is legal certainty, not the arbitrary use of power.
The EU should also use the NTA to make it clear to the USA, that economic giant, that on issues like bananas or BSE it is not economic growth or the interests of companies that should count, but the health and social welfare of our people.
The WTO, which is without doubt a fruit of the union of the EU and the USA, certainly needs considerable reform in this respect.
The WTO is in urgent need of social and ecological restructuring in view of its new areas of work, and must be made transparent for all members.
The NTA could do some useful preparatory work in view of the forthcoming ministerial conference.
The NTA should not be a club for major industrialists who dictate the agenda to politicians behind closed doors.
Quite the contrary, it should open up means of transatlantic communication to civil society.
In an era of multinational companies, workers should also be able to communicate, to promote their ideas about education and training, social protection and healthy jobs.
Erika Mann's report shows which direction we should be heading in, and we shall be supporting it with a clear conscience.
Unfortunately, Mr Souchet's report on external relations does not reflect our views, in particular the parts concerning crisis management and the use of the armed forces, even if the latter are euphemistically described as peace-keeping operations.
The human rights field could certainly have been given more attention, and not just on the death penalty in the USA.
We hope that the relevant amendment will gain sufficient support here.
Nor can we comprehend why measures such as those taken by the State of Massachusetts to counter human rights abuses in Burma will be prohibited in future - quite the opposite.
State regulation mechanisms relating to human rights must also remain a legal option.
As I have already said, human rights should have priority over business interests.
It is misleading to give the impression that the freedom to choose between 27 different kinds of headache pills is the same thing as the freedom to opt for an affordable health care system with equal and unrestricted access for all.
We shall be abstaining on the Souchet report but very firmly supporting Erika Mann's report.
