Madam President, the "sign against crime' campaign is now under way, the "vote against crime' will take place tomorrow and the "fight against crime' is our task in the European Community.
Mr Pirker thinks so too.
He sends his apologies for today as he has to go to Austria on urgent business.
But I think that organized crime quite simply has to be tackled in a much more targeted way.
It affects the legal trade cycle and public administration.
It also damages the financial interests of the Union.
A system of police cooperation is under construction - the EUROPOL drugs unit, established in 1997, has successfully prosecuted 2 608 cases of organized crime, the UCLAF anti-fraud unit which protects the financial interests of the European Community has also been very successful.
However, judicial cooperation remains in its infancy as different legal systems in the Member States prevent an optimum level of cooperation.
In the interests of improving cooperation, in the interests of combating organized crime efficiently, we have to have a debate about where national sovereignty should be set aside.
In any event we have to abandon it where the means to combat organized crime are lacking, where citizens - and not only in Brussels - are no longer protected and the Union's interests are harmed.
The long-term objective is a common legal standard.
The Bontempi report - which, by the way, is excellent - urges us to act more quickly.
There are four points that I consider to be essential.
First, the administration of agreements on mutual judicial assistance must be radically improved.
Second, legal provisions must be harmonized, at least in the case of new offences.
Third, cooperation with third countries must be improved using programmes such as GROTIUS and Falcone; in this way the EU can export security and legal systems.
Fourth, cooperation to protect the Union's financial interests must be dramatically improved.
We need a strong core of material and criminal provisions.
UCLAF must be provided with the necessary resources if it is to become a criminal prosecution authority to protect the Union's financial interests.
The EU must take steps towards judicial cooperation more quickly than before, not just to protect the Union's financial interests but, more importantly, in the interest of our citizens' safety.
