Madam President, Mr President of the Council, I thought your speech was excellent, Mr Schüssel, only it has come many, many years too late.
Time is literally running away from us!
As Mr Swoboda said, this is not your fault, but the combined fault of all western governments.
Since 1989 I have visited Kosovo almost every year, so I really know what I am talking about.
Just ten days ago I was in Albania and saw the misery of the refugees.
I think that we simply have to include in the equation the fact that we are dreadfully late to act.
Everything you say about Rugova is right.
For eight years Rugova tried to motivate people to non-violent resistance, which is what the Albanians (Skipetars) have done.
It is unimaginable that they have managed this!
But the situation now is such that he cannot prove anything.
For eight years he urged the people to show non-violent resistance and the West has not thanked him for it!
Now we have the situation in which Western foreign policy - which has always reacted on an ad hoc basis and had no medium or long-term objectives in this region, as we saw in Bosnia - only reacts when the television shows people in the rest of Europe that the blood is flowing down there.
The political solution in Kosovo can no longer be the autonomy that was crushed by Milosevic in 1989.
Everyone must know this.
For years I was in favour of having three republics in a new democratic Yugoslavian union: Serbia, Montenegro and Kosovo.
But ask people about it: even this solution no longer appears possible today, especially as Yugoslavia is anything but democratic.
The longer the murdering and pillaging and the ethnic cleansing goes on among the Albanians, the stronger the support of the KLA will become, and the more the support of Rugova will decline.
Indulgence toward Belgrade strengthens the KLA and weakens Rugova.
The sanctions, as you yourself have said, lack any bite.
For this reason, we must discharge our duties more thoroughly and attempt to solve this problem.
My view is that we will only be able to do this in a language that Milosevic understands.
