Mr President, it was almost seven years ago, and like today it was a Friday, when I made my first fisheries speech here in the plenum.
In Germany we say Friday is fish day.
Only on Sunday is there tasty roast meat.
What has changed today?
As far as the day of the week is concerned, not much.
I am disappointed about that.
Even when we look at the agenda of the part-sessions of the next six months until July 1998, in general nothing about the scheduling has changed.
That is not right.
Why not?
Just look at today's report.
It points to the future of the EU after the year 2000.
How can I convince you of that?
Before the Commission begins the negotiations about a new agreement, and before extending such an agreement, it must present an assessment of the essential elements.
These are the state of the fish stocks, the effects of the agreement on the Community budget or the division of the financial participation of the European Community and the ship owners.
For instance, this agreement with Latvia, in its protocol, goes particularly into this financial participation by setting up joint enterprises.
With the Treaty of Amsterdam, an enlargement of the European Union is now becoming reality.
It obviously includes, of the Baltic states, Latvia as well as Estonia and Lithuania.
Against the background of the Treaty of Amsterdam, the previous fisheries agreements - that is the agreements of the EU with these third countries - gain a new meaning.
The things which matter as far as the expansion is concerned are strengthening basic democratic values, creation of competitive jobs to overcome structural weaknesses in the medium term, encouragement of small and medium-sized companies and improvement of European environmental quality.
The last leaves much to be desired in the Baltic.
The experience which has been gained with the administration of EU money, the preoccupation with these Community procedures, and setting up joint enterprises, will - I am convinced - help Latvia on the way to faster privatization, and at least benefit its efforts to prepare its fisheries administration sufficiently for its future accession.
The fisheries agreement with Latvia is virtually a factor in the introductory strategy for this candidate for accession, and must thus not only be seen with goodwill by the present Community, but explicitly welcomed.
I hope that you are now convinced that we should not only approach it on a Friday.
