Mr President.
Thank you, Mrs Schroedter.
Of course I must say that you have pointed out that we have worked it out together.
You are right.
We have discussed it, of course we have not at this precise moment spoken about this resolution.
But we do not want to debate it now, that is not important.
It is certainly important to mention that the European Parliament is not silent.
The European Parliament has several times pronounced on Belarus.
Moreover it has always been you who, with others, have pointed out very emphatically that we must do something, and we are naturally very grateful to you for this.
Allow me to refer briefly to a few points.
The European Parliament is not silent and something is being done in Belarus.
Not driven by the government, that is true, but we are pleased to note that there is once more an opposition which is re-forming, which is finding its feet and which clearly has the chance, with the aid of the international community, with the aid of the European Union actually to become a political force.
We confirm that we have succeeded in equipping the OSCE mission, that the government has made concessions and that is a step towards a positive future and we want and ought to do everything together with the Commission to ensure survival and hope that we quickly achieve positive results.
We confirm that hopefully - the Commission will perhaps be able to say something about this - we have re-established the TACIS Democracy Programme.
Mrs Schroedter has rightly referred in her resolution to the fact that we must extend it to the exchange of young students who can come to us to gain experience.
The programme which we have now is too narrow but we are grateful that we have been able to set it up.
Something is being done, and we must do everything possible to show Lukaschenko again that democratically stable and healthy circumstances must be created so that the integration of Belarus into the European context can finally succeed.
The European Parliament has moreover always said: "The door is open and it will remain open' , but of course on condition that general, universal human rights are recognizedd, and I hope that we in the European Parliament can continue to speak positively in favour of this.
