Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur deserves to be congratulated on his thorough and committed work.
I offer these congratulations without any reservations, but at the same time I must admit that I am somewhat envious of Mr De Clercq.
I envy him the auspicious moment at which he is presenting his important report on citizenship of the Union.
The timing could not be better!
With the introduction of the euro, we have laid the last foundation stone for Economic and Monetary Union.
Now we can concentrate on our citizens, on their wishes and dreams.
There is nothing more to stop us going ahead with European political union at full steam.
The De Clercq report points in the right direction, and my group will therefore be voting for it.
We have tabled a few amendments, but they are not at odds with the report.
They are simply intended to amplify certain areas and make some points even more explicit.
I hope that the rapporteur will see it that way, and that he will find this helpful and recommend acceptance of our amendments.
The recitals include various references to encouraging citizens' European awareness.
What could be more obvious than to demonstrate this awareness with a symbol as delightful as a common European holiday?
But we must not fool ourselves.
Our citizens will not be satisfied with symbols and fine declarations alone.
They expect citizenship of the Union not just to deliver rights on paper, but also tangible advantages.
Our citizens expect political union in Europe to make their everyday lives easier.
For instance, let us take the example of the citizen's right to freedom of movement, which we love talking about, but which so far has only progressed in Lilliputian stages.
Our citizens cannot see any more than that.
Freedom of movement is not just a question of pulling down barriers: first and foremost, it is about dismantling bureaucratic obstacles.
The Commission must, therefore, immediately bring forward a legislative proposal to eliminate differences in rights of residence as between Member States and to promote genuine freedom of movement for the Union's citizens.
In particular, we need to remove obstacles to mobility for young people and to make it easier for them settle wherever they wish.
We therefore need simple, easily comprehensible and unbureaucratic means of recognizing diplomas and professional qualifications, which we have just been talking about.
That means that school-leaving qualifications, professional qualifications and diplomas should be equally valid in all Member States.
If we adopt this approach in all areas, we can transform citizens' rights from pieces of paper to a living European reality.
There is a long road ahead of us, and we should never forget one thing: we should be focusing on people and not on profits.
