Mr President, I cannot, of course, agree with the previous speaker, who like a typical socialist can only see the downside when it comes to tax-free sales.
No, I am one of those people who is passionately committed to keeping duty-free shops at airports and on ships for people travelling inside the European Union, who should keep the right to buy typical products, artefacts and other goods free of tax.
However, all this is due to end on 30 June 1999.
I know that there are some people who adhere strictly to principles, and that it can be said that duty-free is incompatible with the internal market.
This principle is a hobbyhorse of the Commission and, in particular, of Commissioner Monti.
The Commissioner has refused to extend the 30 June deadline again, for example until 1 January 2002, as our rapporteur, Mr Garosci, had proposed in a spirit of compromise.
That is, of course, when we will have euro coins and notes in our pockets.
I am not just an advocate of duty-free because I want to make it easy for executives with money to spend to buy luxury goods on business trips.
But right now I simply cannot ignore the fact that there are 18 million unemployed in the European Union and that tens of thousands of jobs are being put at risk by abolishing duty-free at airports and on ships, not to mention the effect on the cost of flying.
Is it not rather contradictory to organize grandiose employment summits, set up action plans to preserve and create jobs, and then simultaneously, by rigidly adhering to principles, jeopardize more jobs than programmes of this kind could ever preserve or create?
I also know that politics is the art of the possible.
So I can only express my regret that the good intentions of our rapporteur, Mr Garosci, whom I warmly thank and who wanted to save duty-free, have become the victim of a procedure which has swept all his excellent proposals aside by limiting his report strictly to vendor control systems.
I am the joint author of two amendments, the aim of which is to ensure that we do not at least just lock the stable door after the horse has bolted, in other words, after we have destroyed jobs by abolishing duty-free.
Instead, we intend that a system of sectoral and regional aid should be provided for the regions and sectors that will be hardest hit by the abolition of duty-free.
We want to ensure that Community funding is made available for this.
I also hope that Parliament will agree to our amendment, which stipulates that travellers departing from ports and airports in the European Union will be able to make duty-free purchases if their final destination is outside the Union, but they have to change inside the Community.
This is particularly important for Luxembourg, as we can usually only fly to third countries via Frankfurt, Brussels, Paris and Amsterdam, and I hope ...
(The President cut off the speaker)
