Madam President, the second meeting between the ASEM heads of state and the European heads of government to be held on 3 and 4 April takes place against the backdrop of a serious economic and financial crisis in East and South-East Asia.
It is a crisis which is exacerbating and will continue to exacerbate the usual effects of capitalist economic growth in large industrial cities: uncertain and badly paid jobs, the reckless and uncontrolled exploitation of natural and mineral resources and occasionally the infringement of human rights on a massive scale.
Forecasts made by the OECD state that unless the governments of East and South-East Asia can do something quickly, with lasting effect and that unless a recovery takes place, the economies of Europe will also suffer under the effects of the crisis.
Indeed, there are many Members in this House who embraced the tiger economies, the boom and the politics of the fast buck.
In my view, we need new mechanisms and, above all, a degree of political primacy.
We need a new framework.
It should be established in London.
If we consider that the ASEM states are responsible for over half of the world's gross domestic product, the burden of responsibility carried by this meeting in London becomes quite clear.
Over the past few months in this House we have repeatedly demanded democratization in Burma, the establishment of trading relations only if Burma guarantees human rights and makes some progress towards democracy.
In relation to North Korea we have asked that money not simply be poured into the KEDO project, but that we should use the money to relieve or alleviate hunger, that we should promote the development of the domestic market and thereby promote a policy of peace in Korea.
These projects must be addressed.
Mr Kinkel spoke of a new policy for Timor.
Perhaps the Council and the Commission can suggest something of this new policy to the repressive regime in Indonesia.
Then there are the jungle fires.
The jungle does not burn by chance, someone sets it on fire.
I believe that a climate protection programme is required.
We want to know how you intend to approach these various problems which we have so often discussed?
What initiatives you are taking?
What is your view, for example, in relation to the economic and financial crisis, on the introduction of a Tobin tax?
How do you intend to explain the new cooperation to the governments?
In my view, it would be a good idea if Parliament were to give you a list of recommendations the next time you embark on these negotiations and that, as Mr Jarzembowski has already suggested, you should then report back to Parliament on what you negotiated, how you negotiated and how we can continue to shape our policy towards East and South-East Asia with common perspectives and in a democratically responsible manner.
