Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the labour pains have started, the birth of the euro is unstoppable.
This undeniable assertion should not blind us to the fact that the single currency is still an infant at risk.
It urgently needs time if not in the incubator, then in the beneficial environment of a socio-ecological reorientation of European economic policy, instead of growing up into a neoliberal, monetarist monster of a supposedly unpolitical currency whose real and exclusive interests are those of the financial asset holders.
This is a highly political decision.
But we need to differentiate politically between two very different questions, that is, the plan to complete the European internal market using European monetary union, and the monetarist, neoliberal plan of the dictates of the financial markets.
Fortunately, we can see that the first phase of the neoliberal monetarist project has largely begun to flag.
The social struggles which in different Member States have produced new governments with new European agendas and sparked off a new debate in Europe had a lot to do with this.
The reforming French government should be given special credit for having placed the debate on an entirely new basis.
The original monetarist convergence criteria are actually being implemented with a great deal more sensitivity.
Tietmeyer thinking has not been setting the tone in Europe.
The idea of a core Europe has foundered in reality.
That is the good news.
It makes it possible for us to agree to launching the euro with 11 Member States.
But we must counter all attempts to say what a wrong-headed German Deutsche Mark-nationalism wants to hear by playing an eleventh hour European poker game.
Belgium and Italy should have no further requirements to meet, and the crazy proposal to reserve the windfall profits to reorganize debts and to forbid the French and others their employment policy must also be thrown out.
To act otherwise would mean the euro was really being introduced on the backs of the unemployed, and that is something we cannot tolerate!
As we all know, some corrections must be made.
We need an employment policy and effective coordination of macroeconomic policy.
The European Central Bank must have a democratic foundation, and this will probably require the Treaty to be revised.
We must speak plainly, Mr Friedrich.
The Treaty must be applied, and no arguments!
And no qualifying amendments!
Pacta sunt servanda does not provide carte blanche for a late game of poker!
