Madam President, the answers given by the Council Presidency and the Commission underline the opportunities which exist for a successful ASEM Summit in London.
I believe that it is really important, at this time in particular, that we convey a message which stresses that the two regions can work together successfully.
After all, the ASEM process is not intended to replace multilateral cooperation in any form, but to promote partnership between Europe and Asia on certain issues.
My thoughts on this matter concern not only possible solutions to the crisis in Asia but also the progress that can be made in reforming international financial institutions by developing ideas common to both regions.
I feel, too, that in fact we probably need new supervisory rules and a new definition of public foreign debt.
These are undoubtedly issues which will also be raised in this context and consequently I expect the ASEM summit to make progress in this area.
Undoubtedly, too, this ASEM Summit should be used to emphasize the fact that the euro can help not only to stabilize monetary and economic relations within the European Union, but can also make a contribution towards international monetary stability.
This is an important message which the Summit should convey.
I underline once again just how essential good cooperation is for this important region of the world.
Despite our different traditions and cultures, opportunities for cooperation exist and are also necessary, precisely because we already have such a high level of economic partnership.
This is another reason why we need political stability as well in both regions.
This indepth political dialogue should contribute to that stability.
It can do so because security concerns in Asia are also our security concerns, and good government is a topic which should increasingly become a focal point in political dialogue.
We must not forget, however, that cooperation between Asia and Europe does not only mean cooperation at governmental and parliamentary level.
It also involves NGOs and the young people and women of Asia and Europe.
There are many issues which can be discussed and, more importantly, many measures which can be implemented within the framework of people-topeople dialogue.
I would ask the Presidency of the Council and the Commission through its projects and programmes to provide a clear and concrete model of cooperation at all levels.
