Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we shall meet again later as unfortunately is our lot.
I believe that we can be very happy with the Commission's submission on denied-boarding compensation for scheduled air transport.
We in the PPE Group support most of the improvements proposed by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
In particular, we think it is right that with effect from next year - I am assuming that it will come into effect next year - passengers who are unable to travel due to overbooking, despite the fact that they have valid and confirmed tickets, will receive increased compensation of ECU 185 on flights up to 3 500 km and ECU 379 on flights over 3 500 km.
I also believe that it is right that the distinction between charter and scheduled flights has now been removed, though it has not been removed entirely.
In the case of charter flights it applies only where a seat has been booked, not where a package holiday has been booked.
So the old regulation is still applicable for travellers who have booked a package holiday; here nothing has changed.
However, where single tickets are sold for charter flights it is right that the same applies and compensation must be paid.
It is also important, I believe, that we should inform citizens of their rights.
There are very good airline companies - as most of them are, in fact - which, when they have overbooked, take the initiative to offer compensation themselves.
There are apparently other airline companies, however, who fail to inform their passengers that they have a right to compensation where flights are overbooked.
In this respect the new regulations which we are proposing together with the Commission, that is that appropriate notices should be displayed at departure desks, are right.
Here we as Christian Democrats, however, do not agree with some of the proposals from the committee.
We do not believe that the size of the letters on the information notices should be decided by Community law.
Firstly there is the principle of subsidiarity, and secondly there are simply differences.
Some countries have one language, others have several languages, and I think it is going to far to try to specify the size of the information notices - down to the last centimetre - for all the countries in Europe from Finland to Portugal.
Parliament should exercise a little restraint.
In any case, my group will ask that we vote against this proposal tomorrow.
We would also like to point out - and here my view differs a little from that of the rapporteur - that it is right that the information be printed on the tickets as well.
Certainly, international talks will be required in order to clear up all the details.
A passenger who gets his or her secretary to book a flight through a travel agency and receives confirmation that the flight has been booked does not need information about compensation payments.
The normal citizen, however, who books a flight himself should have information concerning his rights provided on the ticket.
We also reject the view held by the majority of the committee that this compensation regulation should also apply to flights from third countries.
We cannot have two laws, with EU companies having to pay compensation and companies in America and other competitors not having to pay compensation.
This has to be done on a global level for it is unacceptable that our European airlines should be disadvantaged in relation to American and other companies.
I believe this is a fair compromise between the interests of passengers and the airline companies and I therefore believe that we should all vote for the substance of this report.
