Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank my colleague, Mr Schmid, very sincerely for submitting this report.
His statements have shown that we are dealing with a true expert in the subject.
At the start of my own statements, allow me to remark in jest that, having read Gerhard Schmid's report, I would easily be in a position to try my hand at things other than being a Member of the European Parliament because, if it were not illegal, you could make a lot of money that way!
Mr Schmid has completed a very precise analysis of the technical pre-requisites for this type of crime.
His report highlights a quite significant danger, namely the fact that as a result of technological progress, notably in cashless payment transactions, new dangers of misuse emerge at the same time and in the same areas where simplifications appear to have been achieved.
This is the case unless clear definitions are made of the limits and frameworks within which comparable standards are developed to make it easier to control the usability of this new technology, not only for the user but also for the manufacturer of the technical pre-requisites.
In doing so, Mr Schmid has pointed to the crux of the matter.
As the example of France shows, the credit card industry is interested in simplifying the buying of goods by means of credit cards and in encouraging as many people as possible - that is after all the purpose of credit cards - to be able to buy goods with greater ease in an economy which is becoming more and more entwined internationally, so tempting them to buy goods.
But in that case the party which derives most profit also has to ensure that the consumer is adequately protected.
Mr Schmid has just made use of a classic example to demonstrate how, although sealing off one Member State's market within the internal market benefits both the Member State and its consumers on the one hand, it amounts on the other to a contravention of our Community's rules on competition.
This only goes to show that the development of a new, integrated economy in the European Union brings a host of dangers in its wake.
One of the dangers which I want to address is the fact that we have not as yet developed a coherent security system in the European Union.
If the collections of data which are needed to create comparable security standards are now to be fed into a new, separate system yet again, it will be the umpteenth system that we have developed in the EU.
In order to provide protection against organized crime, there is not only a security system in the area of credit cards, but also, for example, the Schengen information system or the customs information system.
And then there is also the European information system which collects a range of data from other systems.
So there is a danger - and there has often been critical comment about this in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs - that we shall see the development of several different systems which to some extent collect the same sets of data.
In this case it would make more sense for us to transfer protection against misuse, and the development of strategies for such protection, to the institution which is in fact responsible for such matters, namely Europol.
If Europol is really to be developed as the European Union's data collection body and as the organization which is to carry out the exchange of data while at the same time checking thoroughly that data protection is being respected, then it makes no sense if Europol is not involved with credit card fraud of all things, one of the growth industries for organized crime.
That is why I make the following demand, as an essential supplement to what my colleague, Mr Schmid, has said: instead of overloading Europol politically with issues - for example, nuclear smuggling - which really have nothing to do with it, as often happens, it would, for example, be better to transfer to this body competence for the area described by Mr Schmid.
