Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we in the Group of the European People's Party think the Commission's proposals to extend the competition rules on air travel to include third countries are logical in principle because, Commissioner, internal and external regulations are bound together for practical reasons, which makes it essential to have one single regulation.
Yet in some respects the Commission is trying to run before it can walk, for only when the Council has fully transferred to the Community the responsibility for negotiating air traffic agreements with third countries - a policy which we in the PPE Group support - does it become logical to transfer to the Community sole responsibility for competition rules governing our relations with third countries.
You cannot do the second without the first.
Is the Council really prepared, and - if I can put a direct question to the UK government, if Mr Watts wants to have a word with Mr Prescott - is your government ready, to transfer jurisdiction in this area to the Community?
We hold the view that in the complex field of international transport it would be logical for the Community to be in charge of air traffic agreements for all Member States.
But the Council is not prepared to do this, and I have not seen the UK presidency submit any proposal to this effect within the Council of Transport Ministers.
For years the Commission has been asking for jurisdiction in this very area, but even the UK presidency has failed to be moved.
But if we deny the Commission its wish, then we will be unable fully to extend the rules of jurisdiction to our relations with third countries, because this would create a bigger overlap between the Community's competence and that of the Member States, and the airlines would suffer as a result.
That is not something we wish to see.
I would say to the rapporteur, Mr Scarbonchi, that if the AEA supports these proposals, as we do, then this will benefit all European airlines, for you know how difficult it is to get any kind of agreement out of the AEA, with British Airways, KLM, Sabena and Lufthansa always at each others' throats.
But if the AEA adopts a common position, then there will be real support for this as the best solution.
We are therefore asking the other groups to support our three amendments.
In this connection, Commissioner, I would ask you to give us more details of your intended decisions on the cooperation agreement between British Airways and American Airlines.
We support your efforts to apply certain conditions to this agreement, such as those which seek to reduce the dominance of both companies in the transatlantic route to and from London and to ensure that there is fair competition on the transatlantic routes.
Commissioner, you have now suddenly decided to look again at the old alliances, and to do the same to the new ones, in order to establish how far they comply with competition rules.
We think that is a good thing to do, we are not at all unhappy about it, in fact quite the reverse, for we believe these alliances all have to be investigated in the same way.
However, you should present and discuss with us your guidelines for reviewing and handling inter-company alliances, and you should do so either today or within the next few weeks - as you announced in the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
We know that competition law is your domain.
All the same, I think it is important to discuss the guiding principles with one another.
But whatever you decide to do, Commissioner, to remove and prevent distortions of competition, I have certain misgivings about it all.
We want to open up the market for competition between airlines.
We do not want to replace competition - deficient though this may well be - with state intervention.
Above all, we should not distort competition by applying state intervention or even market allocation orders.
In this respect, Commissioner, we are anxious to know if you can tell us something about the guiding principles you intend to use.
By the way, you know we tend to support you in these things, which is more than the Council does.
