Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we support the common position and consider that it has taken account of our draft amendments.
The guarantee of and progress in the quality of training and its constant critical review by colleges and universities and all of their members ought really to be much more a matter of course, in the interest of the best possible life and career opportunities for young graduates.
Sadly this is not the case, to a greater extent in some of the countries of Europe, to a lesser in others.
It undoubtedly comes as a bitter realization to students when they get to hear, often by way of dubious ranking procedures, that their university is poorly classified in public esteem because it perhaps missed the opportunity to make changes.
It should at long last be common practice that every college undergoes an evaluation of its research and teaching and that international external experts should also take part in the evaluation groups.
For example, universities should ensure that they face critical questioning about how good and forward-looking the education they are offering is, whether they consciously give a European orientation to their courses of studies in the spirit of ERASMUS, and offer lectures and seminars in other languages, for example, whether they have reached agreements with colleges or sectors of industry in other countries in order to offer students practical experience abroad, or whether the college puts itself forward as a regional training centre for those in work or whether one subject area takes part in distance-learning.
There will be some in research and teaching who will find it hard to re-think along these lines.
That's the only way to overcome ossification.
It is certainly important to ensure that training is assured on the basis of criteria that are as far as possible the same, but it seems to me questionable that new bodies should be set up for this purpose, such as a "network' institution on a European basis, especially since in legal terms it is on thin ice, and this should be rejected.
It will not lead to any progress.
What are important are permanent exchanges of experience about evaluation procedures between colleges and universities themselves.
Individual projects can sensibly be supported by the EU.
In conclusion: what is wrong with the varied profiles of European colleges and universities?
They are sources of innovation potential.
Why should not architectural studies in Milan, for example, be offered with rather different emphases than in Aachen, for example, if the quality standards are good in both cases?
