Mr President, Mr President of the European Central Bank, before the start of the second stage, this European Parliament had already assumed responsibility for organizing a monetary dialogue with the European Monetary Institute, and at the same time it stressed that this must be developed further in the third stage of monetary union with the beginning of the age of the euro.
We in the European Parliament have been able to see the commitment of this European institution, the European Monetary Institute, at a time in which there was great doubt as to whether monetary union could actually begin on time.
Therefore, the European Monetary Institute, its President and its employees should be thanked for their work which has always been characterized by hope and by the European Community spirit, because we all know that if a matter is not tackled jointly, it cannot be completed.
In this respect, Mr President, I wish you all the best for your work in the European Central Bank, which will be so important to our daily lives.
In this respect, I would also like to thank the rapporteur, whose position is supported by the PSE group, for his comments on the report by the European Monetary Institute.
Even if this no longer survives, many recommendations by this institute are still of particular importance for the European Central Bank.
I would like to emphasize one point at the beginning of this debate: when the common monetary policy is introduced on 1 January 1999, not only the markets, but also the people, must be convinced of the value of this institution's work, of the credibility of its decisions, in the interests of price stability and also in the interests of the independence of this European monetary authority.
At the same time, however, it must be possible to develop an information and communications strategy that meets the need of the people who are entering this age of the euro with uncertainty, fear and scepticism.
For that reason, this European Parliament's question concerns what is being done or what should be done beyond the monetary dialogue with this Parliament on the basis of the quarterly report and on the basis of the annual report from the European Central Bank, in order to give concrete shape to democratic accountability and the establishment of European openness for its decisions.
This raises the very specific question of what a rejection of the publication of records really means.
Is it really not possible for the European Central Bank to publish its monetary decisions, as this European Parliament has repeatedly requested, and at the same time to publish the reasons for a monetary decision on the day of that decision?
We in the European Parliament are not concerned in the least about who puts forward what point of view or who votes which way in the European Central Bank.
We are simply concerned that the public, that we all understand what the background is to these monetary policy decisions, that not only affects price stability but actually helps to determine investments, growth and employment.
To this is added the fact that this monetary dialogue is not only in the interests of the democratic system, but at the same time is in the interests of the European Central Bank, which can only gain credibility.
For this reason, I also think that it is very important to discuss strategies of monetary policy.
Money supply and inflation targets are in competition, as the rapporteur indicated.
We in the European Parliament considered a double and mixed strategy at a very early stage and are of the opinion that money supply and inflation targets must be linked because we want to avoid any risk, especially in the age of electronic money.
I must repeat that the more indicators that have to be assessed by the European Central Bank, the simpler it will be to control the development of money supply and thus also inflation, one of the major tasks of the European Central Bank.
