Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are now experiencing a fatal sense of déjà vu , because the results of the events that took place in Moscow amidst great media excitement are really only minimal, not to say non-existent.
The promises made by Mr Yeltsin were promises he had already made to the Americans.
He had even been praised for them.
They were the very reason the sanctions were lifted.
I, for one, am not surprised that things have turned out this way.
At the time I found no cause for celebration because I knew all too well that Milosevic had not changed.
Perhaps at that age you just cannot change.
But if that is the case, we must take note, because he behaved the same way in Bosnia, and it is how he is behaving now.
He agrees to hold meetings, but without an international mediator, and at the same time - just as he did in Bosnia - he is sanctioning murder and pillaging.
The fact is that there are once again concentration camps and even mass graves in Kosovo.
We were all aware of it, we all saw it coming, yet we failed to act.
By we, I mean the European Union.
Unfortunately, Parliament cannot act, we can only suggest possible courses of action.
If Milosevic now refuses to withdraw the Yugoslavian army and his police troops on the grounds that the Albanians must first stop their terrorist attacks, he is confusing cause and effect.
It is really he who is responsible for this whole affair.
For eight years now the Albanians have endured an apartheid regime with great forbearance.
Who then is surprised that after eight years of such an apartheid regime the young men are saying, we just are not going to put up with that any more.
We are not going to let our wives and children be murdered.
We are not going to be driven out.
So we need to exert much greater political and military pressure on Belgrade.
We need UN troops between Serbia and Kosovo, because that is the source of the evil.
Milosevic is playing with the West.
He is leading us around by the nose.
And we know it.
He knows all too well that the West places far greater importance on the implications in terms of international law of possible NATO intervention than on actually putting an end to the aggression.
The UN Charter was written in 1945, at a very different time, and is now out of date in this respect.
We really must make sure that intra-ethnic conflicts do not have to be played out before the international community in this manner.
If we had acted in Sarajevo as NATO wanted us to, Sarajevo would not have remained surrounded, fewer than those hundreds of thousands of people would have been driven out, fewer would have died, and we would not now be faced with the never-ending costs which we are all having to pay.
The problem is that Milosevic knows what he wants and is doing exactly what he wants.
And we're letting him do it.
That is our problem.
Now he can see a new Dayton on the horizon, and because he can see this new Dayton, we are seeing ethnic cleansing in north west Kosovo.
He is driving out the Albanians who live there because, allegedly, it is the cradle of the Serbian nation and because it is rich in natural resources.
And when he has driven them all out, and only then will he be forced to look for a solution, which we will propose.
This is why we should act now and not leave the people of Kosovo in the lurch.
