Mr President, Karl Habsburg-Lothringen kindly mentioned that I am, as it were, the grandfather of this report, because I had the honour at that time of presenting here in Parliament the supplementary protocols relating to the association agreements.
I believe the report on which we are voting today is a significant step forward.
Firstly, it deals with the cultural and linguistic diversity in present-day Europe and in the future EU.
I am very grateful that the regional and minority languages, the Slavonic languages and Hungarian are given appropriate dignity in this report.
Secondly I am happy that this report is a step towards greater partnership.
We have grown accustomed to a certain arrogant paternalism vis-a-vis the candidates for entry in central and eastern Europe and it is the amendments which were put forward today which bear witness to a great spirit of partnership.
Quite simply, we are seeing here the future Member States.
In this connection I would like to take issue with Mr Lukas, for I am of the opinion that he should campaign energetically in his own country for eastwards enlargement.
Thirdly, I would like to say that in this report we are considering two countries which are particularly important to us: Poland and the Slovak Republic, which are closely linked together by their great histories and culture.
The Slovak Republic is in fact in danger of being isolated.
I have spoken with the President of the Slovak Rectors' Conference, Professor Stern, who fears that because of the politics in his country which we have justly criticized, the people themselves are isolated, the educational institutions are isolated, and the students, young scientists and specialist workers are isolated.
We must work against this.
We should place a financial emphasis on the Slovak Republic, for none of the associated states requires our support as urgently as the Slovak Republic, which is a profoundly central European country.
That is why I welcome this report and the emphasis it places on Poland and the Slovak Republic.
