Mr President, on behalf of my group I would like to welcome the fact that we are today discussing the discrimination that continues to exist on the grounds of sexual orientation, both in our Member States and in applicant countries.
As an Austrian Member of Parliament I, like the previous speaker, regret that our country has not yet succeeded in eliminating from the penal code one of the main forms of discrimination, the different age of consent for heterosexuals and homosexuals.
Mrs Flemming, the protection of girls should be as important a concern for us as the protection of boys.
Repeated attempts in Parliament have failed due to the opposition of the conservative parties.
It is because of this that in Austria alone we have approximately 20 convictions every year under this discriminatory offence.
This does not set a good example to those countries wishing to join the Union and which we expect to maintain the highest of standards in this as in other areas.
In discussion, certain political groups always deny that non-discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation is a human right.
It was only after the decision of the European Commission of Human Rights in the Sutherland case that this issue received a very positive response, and it was made clear that a different age of consent contravened Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
I find it equally difficult to understand the argument that the EU bodies and in particular the European Parliament do not have the power to deal with this issue.
As a Union we were already obliged to respect human rights, and since the Amsterdam Treaty came into force we are even more so.
This will give us the chance - however inadequate - to achieve something.
It is well known that, in future, the Council - even if only by unanimous vote - could take the necessary steps to combat discrimination on grounds of sex, race, ethnic origin, religion, ideology, disability, age or sexual orientation.
The Commission will have the right of initiative for this.
In conclusion, therefore, I would like to ask the Commission whether it has any plans to make use of this right of initiative.
