Mr President, first of all I would like to state that I am very pleased that this resolution means we are examining the forest fires in Brazil and Indonesia.
However, our urgency gives rise to a dual approach to a certain extent, because we are combining two elements here: the 'self-induced' if you like, or environmental disasters and forest fires caused by man; and the El Ni単o phenomenon, which has had a far more widespread effect than the forest fires.
Both must be dealt with, both are necessary, and I would say that these are two disasters which complement each other, but are not necessary connected.
We are currently talking about Brazil and Indonesia.
When we add El Ni単o to this, it will be many more countries tomorrow, and perhaps even ourselves the day after that.
I received some information from the Peruvian Embassy this morning about the damage caused in that country so far by El Ni単o.
The number of dead is currently around 300, with 70 000 homeless, 15 000 homes destroyed, 120 bridges broken, the main hydroelectric plant at Machu Pichu completely wrecked by landslides, and about US$ 1.2 billion's worth of damage.
That is about 3.5 % of the country's gross domestic product.
If we consider the scale of the destruction - which affects not only Peru but also Ecuador, and could just as easily affect Brazil or Indonesia - it is very clear to me that far greater international solidarity is required of us.
We must discuss in more detail firstly how we can exert influence to mitigate the effects of the El Ni単o phenomenon as much as possible, and secondly how we can cope with these disasters and also exert a certain amount of pressure on the appropriate governments.
I would like to state in this respect that it is very regrettable that the plenary session of the Earth Summit in New York in 1997 rejected the international Global Forest Convention, which was tabled by the European Union, amongst others.
As we are talking about forest fires so much, I would like to take this opportunity to ask the Commission and those responsible to table this Convention again at the next possible opportunity, because it is urgently required at international level.
