Mr President, more and more Europeans live in cities.
As has often been pointed out, four out of five EU citizens are city-dwellers.
Cities are thus also enjoying increasing prosperity and their infrastructure is improving all the time.
In this connection, I am pleased that my city, Graz, was recently selected as the European City of Culture for the year 2003.
However, cities are not only places of beauty and culture; they face growing problems with poverty, unemployment and exclusion.
They have more crime and are less safe, and they suffer environmental damage on a very large scale.
Against this background, it is obvious why urban issues are crucially important within the framework of structural policy and why they must continue to be so, but - and this cannot be emphasized often enough - not everything should be regulated at European level.
We must not get carried away; we must take account of the principle of subsidiarity not only in speeches but also in our very practical political work.
A second important aspect should be mentioned in this connection, however.
European structural policy, and European urban policy too, cannot be defined from the top down; it must be a bottom-up process and we must take partnership with the cities seriously.
Thirdly, the principle of divide et impera has often been applied in the past, with much, therefore, being imposed from the top.
We must adopt a different position: we must support networking by those involved, and we must support what has already been discussed here today, namely the sharing - and challenges - of best practice.
Diversity is out there in the European cities.
The excellent reports before us today - especially the reports from our committee by Mrs Napoletano and Mr Novo Belenguer - take account of all these issues to a substantial degree.
However, in some respects the enthusiasm goes a little too far, and I have thus attempted, with my amendments, to modify one or two points.
This is not directed against the issues themselves; rather, my intention is to ensure that we should also, and above all, respect the reports submitted by the Commission and the aims which they contain, and also take this respect seriously.
I have nothing against URBAN, but we must take ourselves seriously and thus integrate URBAN and its objectives into general Community policy and structural policy, even if we would prefer to have our own programme.
I have nothing against the initiative for cities, but we must not forget the region around the cities either.
I have one final point: I have nothing against a further extension of the right to vote in local elections for all citizens living in our European Union, but first things first, we should be concentrating on EU citizens above all.
