Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this discussion of the Tindemans report comes at a very interesting phase in the development of the European Union.
Since the resolution was passed on 2 May, we have largely completed economic and monetary integration.
We now have to admit that, thanks to the level of internal integration it has achieved, the European Union has become a community of peace unprecedented in world history.
But our ability to secure internal peace has not yet been developed to the same extent outside our own borders.
When talking to our European citizens we often meet with a high degree of disappointment that the European Union is unable - I say unable because it does not yet possess the required instruments - to secure peace outside its own borders.
I believe it is fitting that, at such a vital time as this, a man like Leo Tindemans should have grasped the opportunity to start such a debate, rather as he did in the 1970s with his report on the development of European Union.
It really is in this context that the report should be seen.
With the collapse of Communism and the end of confrontation between the Eastern and Western blocs in Europe, regional wars on the traditional model are once more a possibility.
And we have still to find an answer to them.
Until now we have hoped that NATO, though it was not really conceived for this purpose, would look after things for us.
In Bosnia peace got its chance when a credible military power, the United States, gave its backing to the peace initiatives.
However, we cannot always expect the Americans to be there for us in the future.
It shows great hypocrisy always to be cursing the Americans as some soft of international police force, while portraying ourselves as the great diplomats.
In the interests of burden sharing in Europe and with a view to the credibility of the continued existence of the Transatlantic Alliance, we must develop the relevant capabilities ourselves.
And for this reason we must make the very best of the opportunities offered by the Amsterdam Treaty, though I do have my doubts as to whether the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty will actually prove to be sufficient.
Leo Tindemans points out that the strategy and planning group, for example, is vitally important.
Have we finally managed to get an institution capable of submitting proposals from a community point of view - as is the case with internal community policy?
The Council of Ministers may deny that this is the case, but it is forced to argue from a Community position.
Moreover, this strategy and planning unit stipulated in the Amsterdam Treaty must be conceived in such a way that it does not become a COREPER-3 organization or a new organization of political directors and their representatives.
It must be shaped to include the Commission in such a way that it represents a Community position rather than simply a collection of national positions.
The same is evident from a range of other examples.
For example, what is the point of a strategy which has to be passed unanimously in the European Council?
If it relates to a fundamental principle which can achieve unanimous support, then all well and good.
But if it goes into detail, it will surely run into difficulties and fail to make progress.
Therefore, it should pass only general resolutions from which the Council together with the Commission can then develop practical measures on the basis of a majority vote.
The potential is there, it just has to be put to practical effect.
