Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft Convention and joint action go back to the Council's action plan for combating organized crime.
I hope I shall not fall out with listeners or Members yet again if I say that combating organized crime is an imperative.
It is indispensable.
We must therefore also consider that the Convention passed to us on 14 and 20 January initially represents a major contribution by the Council to implementing the objective of the action plans.
Mr Ullmann has just indicated that existing agreements should be developed.
The objective is to develop, expand and facilitate the application of the European Convention on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 20 April 1959, its Additional protocol of 17 March 1978, the Convention of 19 June 1990 applying the Schengen Agreement, and the Benelux Treaty on Extradition and Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters of 27 June 1962.
You can see the difficult problem with which we are confronted and the difficult task Mr Buffetaut has had from the list of treaties and the details I have mentioned.
He has had to try to do justice to the requirements emerging from European integration - particularly economic integration - on the basis of old treaties, which were concluded at times when the institutions which now exist were undreamt of.
In one aspect it cannot be helped: the unlimited economic activity which is possible in the European Union also entails unrestricted activity in the underground economy, which is initially being combated by an attempt at intensified police cooperation.
I repeat: an attempt - because Europol is still not getting into its stride to the necessary extent, to say nothing of the millstone around its neck - at least, it is a millstone in the view of the Group of the Party of European Socialists - of the overdue need to grant it operational powers at Union level, which lies in the distant future.
If we assume that this European police force exists, with rights and, of course, powers of control under the rule of law - so the Member who has just spoken need not get excited - this would not mean that the results which such policing would bring could be used judicially to the correspondingly necessary extent.
That is where the debate on Mr Buffetaut's report must begin.
The current draft specifies the procedure under which mutual assistance is granted and the observance of the forms and procedures specified by the petitioning Member State in accordance with which mutual assistance is to be granted.
The return of the proceeds of crime, the procedure required, and cooperation in telecommunications traffic between Member States - a very difficult topic - are described.
It specifies how the transmission and transfer of procedural documents is to take place, including the necessary translations of the procedural documents to be transferred.
Facilities for examinations, how they can take place by video-conferencing, and how the corresponding translations can be made during video-conferencing, are specified.
A host of other matters, which I do not wish to mention at this point, are described, which would be necessary to make judicial cooperation possible between two states in proceedings from the confiscation of the proceeds of crime to video-conferencing, whilst observing the existing institutions of the other respective state.
If this is multiplied to involve 15 Member States cooperating with each other, whilst strictly maintaining their existing institutions, hell will have frozen over by the time we have translated the proposals, I am sure.
We shall not get anywhere like this.
What we need is what Mr Buffetaut has indicated, to our surprise: an intensification of the will to harmonize.
We must begin by harmonizing quite distinct areas of judicial cooperation.
I know I cannot always say this without being punished from within my own ranks.
To me, harmonization means that if the European Union wishes to gain executive powers in the long term - including in the area of judicial cooperation - rights must be transferred to it by the Member States.
We have been transferring rights from national sovereignty to the European Union in stages, including in recent months.
We are all pleased that we shall soon have monetary union in the European Union.
We hope that all the Member States of the European Union will soon have the euro as legal tender.
We know that all the groups in this Parliament who have voted for the introduction of the euro have done so because they hope that it will intensify integration.
On the other hand, as the debate on the Buffetaut report has shown, we are faced with the major difficulty that we are not prepared to transfer powers where the nation state is still at its mightiest: police and the judiciary.
If we go on creating an economic area of this type, as we are doing, equipped with a single currency, but holding on to the idea that only our public prosecutors in the Federal Republic of Germany, France or Belgium are in a position to fight crime on the basis of their respective national law, like a child with a favourite toy, then I am going to turn to crime at some stage.
That is simpler than being a law-abiding citizen in Europe.
What we are talking about here is the future capacity of the European Union.
I see all the clever lawyers, including on my own committee, sitting over there saying: "There he goes babbling to himself again, with no idea how the legal system works.
If he knew what all the obstacles were he would not talk like that.'
But, precisely because we need the courage of non-lawyers in order to make progress in judicial cooperation, I will tell you again: in the opinion of our group, the best thing about the Buffetaut report is that he tries to make it clear that we shall only make progress in judicial cooperation and mutual assistance in criminal matters by intensifying harmonization in cooperation within the scope of application of joint actions and in the stronger and stronger application of methods which have proved themselves on the basis of mutual experience.
This is astounding for a Member of his group.
One last remark on the procedure of this House.
If we are to be consulted, the Council must appreciate that the consultation procedure forms part of the legislative process.
This is not a courtesy shown to Parliament.
It is a constituent part of the legislative process.
If, as Mr Buffetaut indicated, Parliament is discussing the submission from the Council as communicated to us - in this case under pressure, because we want to keep to the Council's deadline - and the Council changes its text in the middle of this consultation procedure, it makes what we do here cosmetic.
This is probably not the fault of the Council representative present here, who should tell his masters that this Parliament will not, I hope, permit it to trample all over its rights, particularly in the third pillar.
It is democracy which is being trampled underfoot, which is something which democratically elected governments should avoid if possible!
(Applause)
