Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should first of all like to express my appreciation of the excellent work undertaken by Mrs Napoletano and Mr Novo Belenguer.
Both reports underline the most important issues arising in the closely linked debates on regional and urban development and put forward a number of valuable suggestions in terms of developing these very new European policy areas further.
I should like to make three points.
Firstly, the various European Union policies - such as agricultural policy, structural policy, transport policy or even competition policy - directly affect the spatial structures of the European Union, but have hitherto done so, as regards regional planning, in an uncoordinated and incoherent manner.
Furthermore, in terms of Europe's population structures, its transport, energy and communication structures, the spatial distribution of its economic activity and its environmental links, Europe forms an interconnected network.
We must, therefore, move away from our often very limited viewpoints and develop a European perspective on the impacts of spatial planning, both for the territory covered by the current European Union and also for an EU which is enlarged towards the East.
A European observatory can contribute substantially to this process.
However, clear progress towards collating basic statistical data on these issues is even more important.
Secondly, developing a European perspective and coordinating it at European level does not mean that we must shift competencies to Europe to a substantial degree.
What is vitally important in this respect is that we adhere to the principle of subsidiarity and respect for established local government traditions, and that we ensure the participation of local actors.
Thirdly, I would like to make a point about the cities.
It would be a grave mistake to view the cities in isolation.
The very complex interaction between urban and rural areas must be taken into account.
It is true that 80 % of Europe's citizens live in urban areas.
More than two-thirds of Europe's wealth is generated in the cities.
Yet this is only possible against the background of the rural areas' ability to balance out economic, social and ecological interests.
It would be a mistake to focus solely on the major urban areas.
It is the smaller and medium-sized towns and cities in the rural regions, in particular, which perform an important bridging function and shape the economic and social landscape of Europe.
We are still at the beginning of spatial planning at European level.
If we take on board the conclusions of the two reports submitted today, we will be taking a major step forward.
