Mr President, first of all I should also like to say how pleased I am that today we have heard certain signals from Belarus suggesting that the very tense situation of the last few days might perhaps be returning to normal to some extent.
Representatives from Belarus have often reproached us for applying double standards, particularly with regard to human rights.
On each occasion, my only response has been to say that it is only natural that we should regard countries which are our immediate neighbours, countries which we assume might one day wish to become part of our Community, countries which have many cultural similarities with ourselves - as is the case with Belarus - with a particularly critical eye.
We do not apply double standards, but perhaps we do look at some countries more closely than others, quite simply because we need and want to have a close relationship with these countries.
This is why we sometimes look very critically at Belarus and at what is happening there.
Then we are obliged to say that certain things happening there are quite simply unacceptable, as we have done in this case.
Of course, the quasi closure of the embassies is something we find wholly unacceptable, and our reaction to it is therefore, in my view, a very appropriate reaction.
Of course, we also consider the failure to allow various NGOs to enter and to work in the country to be inadmissible.
Here, too, some progress has been made and there has been a certain improvement, but not yet to an extent which we find acceptable.
Of course, the need for the OSCE to be able to operate there freely and to carry out its tasks, its mandate, is also very important to us.
We shall certainly judge this country on its actions and not only on the words we hear time and time again.
This is very important for us if we are to ensure that this European country reaches the standards expected of it both by us and by the Belorussian population, so that we can negotiate reasonably and can build sound foundations.
