Mr President, Commissioner, Madam President-in-Office, the example of Russia teaches us that a process of economic transformation must follow directly from successes in the development of democracy.
Democracy sustained such damage when the parliament building in Moscow was shelled in 1993 that it has not yet regained the necessary credibility in the eyes of the Russian people.
The West has ignored this fact and has continued to back Boris Yeltsin as the guarantor of democracy.
Reality in Russia, however, looks quite different.
The reality is that 80 % of economic activity is unofficial and that the West's neoliberal schemes have come to grief when confronted with the hard facts of Russian life.
It is an illusion to think that Russia need only hasten to implement the reforms that the IMF and the World Bank have wanted for the past seven years, and everything will then be all right.
But how can it do that when the system of government has collapsed?
The percentage of the population who live below the subsistence level has long included some of the middle classes, and as winter draws in, the people in Russia only have themselves to rely on, for they will not put any faith in the grand words of politicians at home or abroad.
This profound crisis of confidence has currently blocked all the political roads to democracy.
And yet I have the impression that Western politicians are less interested in this situation than in the fact that suppliers of yoghurt and cheese from the West have lost a market and that containers are piling up in Rotterdam.
Western economic relations, however, must be modelled in such a way that they foster stability within an economic system that is subject to ecological and social conditions rather than undermining the reform efforts in Russia.
The purpose of Western support must therefore be to help overcome this profound crisis of confidence; the West must recognise that the reconstruction of the social security system and the reinforcement of democracy are every bit as important as its economic priorities.
