Mr President, Commissioner, the Hautala report addresses the technical fittings of vehicles for animal transportation.
We have heard repeatedly what a sensitive subject this business of transporting animals for slaughter is, whether we are dealing with horses, pigs, cattle or sheep, because naturally enough, the films record only those aspects that are not alright.
Things that are alright, however, are not shown.
We must not tar everyone with the same brush.
There are decent hauliers as well.
There must be no repeat of these events.
That would be out of the question.
We have just recently adopted the van Dijk report, and straight away we are astonished to find animal welfare popping up in a different committee every time.
This is not very impressive.
We should leave animal welfare where it belongs, in the areas of agriculture and transport.
Taking the kind of trouble we do with this, we should really know where it will appear next.
The rapporteur has gone to a lot of trouble, and the committees have done some excellent work.
However, I would like to make it clear - and as a farmer, I know what I am talking about - that the use of hydraulic loading ramps in the transportation of pigs is not the last word in wisdom.
Mrs van Dijk demanded in her recent report that piglets of up to 30kg should be loaded using a hydraulic loading ramp.
That is fine.
Now Mrs Hautala is saying all pigs should be loaded using hydraulic loading ramps.
Let me tell you this: my farm has a loading ramp the height of the lorry.
That is critical, because then the animals just go into the lorry at ground level.
When we buy animals, they leave the lorry at ground level as well.
Forget your hydraulic loading ramps!
This is the best way because it is what the animals are used to.
It is about people, not vehicles.
People need to handle the animals in such a way that the animals sense they are being treated properly.
For large numbers of animals, we must demand loading ramps that exactly match the height of the lorries.
There is a standard for them, and it works.
We cannot expect small-scale farmers to fit a hydraulic loading ramp onto their vehicles for driving their animals to the market; they would have to quit altogether rather than go out and buy one of those.
So there is really no point.
Let me emphasize the following once again: we must improve the implementation and monitoring of animal welfare provisions in Member States.
I am not pointing the finger at the Commission, because it cannot handle this.
It simply does not have the staff.
We have many a time and oft set aside funds in the budget, but the monies have never been paid out because the Council has refused to employ the staff to carry out this monitoring.
This is crucial!
The people handling the animals are crucial to animal welfare, and if they treat them properly, it will work fine.
