Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is my belief that the Oostlander report represents an important contribution by the European Parliament to progressing the enlargement process in a constructive manner.
We see enlargement as one of the major tasks in the years ahead and the European Parliament will undoubtedly want to make decisive contributions.
It is also important to stress that we are not only concerned with the economic criteria and that we do not see enlargement as a purely economic phenomenon.
In fact, we are far more concerned with the implementation of the political Copenhagen criteria, namely, democracy and human rights, and with clarifying from the outset in this first round of the enlargement process that the European Union has a political dimension as well as an economic one.
Those leading the negotiations can count on the European Parliament in this respect.
This is a significant point as, ultimately, we in Parliament have to ratify the decisions.
I am grateful to the Commissioner and to the President of the Council for the various clarifications they have given here, firstly in relation to the European Parliament's role in the process within the framework of the partnerships, but also on the enlargement process as a whole.
I am assuming that the Presidency's commitment is such that it will also be brought to bear in the Council.
I shall support it on the assumption that it will then be approved accordingly by the Council as otherwise there would be a crisis of credibility between the two institutions.
I am also sure, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, that both the Council and the Commission will discuss the outcome of Parliament's resolutions as appropriate.
In fact, it might be a good idea if this were to be announced formally.
In addition, I have another question to put, Mr President of the Council.
What exactly is meant by an "appropriate opportunity' ?
Does it, for example, mean that the European Parliament will have a maximum of six weeks in which to discuss this information, or, as the Commissioner has said, will we be given sufficient time?
