Madam President, I must say that I am very happy that we are having a joint debate about the special features of the mountain regions.
In the end the mountain region is the most sensitive rural area, and therefore continues to need our support, if it is to be maintained in its entirety and multifunctionality.
Therefore, the high position of the rural areas must be clearly established in Agenda 2000.
Specifically, we need to extend the differential compensation allowance for disadvantaged areas, intensify the brand and tradition protection of typical products of these regions, and support forestry more strongly.
Another item which deserves support is without doubt better use of renewable energy.
On this point, we must not forget that whenever agriculturally productive land becomes disused, in whatever way, it means a declaration of bankruptcy for our system.
Agriculture cannot be laid down like an industrial business, for instance, and must be considered over a much longer period.
These areas should therefore be particularly included in the consideration of renewable energy.
As well as increased payment for agricultural and ecological efforts, of course there must be compensation for permanent natural disadvantages, to safeguard the cultivation of the mountain areas.
This is not least what tourism means.
Austria is the country of the European Union which has the highest proportion of farmers for whom farming is a secondary occupation.
The vast majority of farmers are active in the tourism business, and in both occupations they ensure that the attractiveness and economic productivity of the mountain regions are maintained, and that continuous migration from the rural areas, and thus depopulation of the mountain regions, is stopped.
This also shows the profound social significance and multi-functionality of agriculture.
In Austria, just 70 %, or 2 323 000 hectares, of the agriculturally productive land comes into the European Union's category of disadvantaged areas.
The EU average is 56 %.
In concrete terms, this means that for instance in Austria 150 000 businesses are in a disadvantaged area.
With regard to the enlargement of our Community to the east, the best thing would be to continue the agricultural guideline.
Only this will ensure that it is not only a burden on domestic farmers, but that everyone has to bear their share of this great work of European unification.
