Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the budget control mills grind slowly and still produce the same old bitter grain.
We are now dealing with the draft budget for 1996.
The Court of Auditors presented us with its report in 1997.
We have spent the whole time debating this matter with some intensity.
But instead of coming to our conclusions, we see ourselves compelled to request a postponement.
Anyone watching our efforts from the outside would hardly be impressed by all this.
Nevertheless, we hope that this postponement - and our committee decision was a unanimous one - will produce greater efficiency and bring more pressure to bear on the Commission.
I am sure that something will be set in motion before September.
However, this method can surely only be used once.
I believe that the decisive pressure only materializes according to whether or not there are sufficient votes to refuse a discharge, whether this be today or at some unspecified time in the future.
There are certainly plenty of grounds for this - one only has to think of the lack of trust, which many speakers have mentioned, and the negative findings of the statement of assurance.
On the other hand, the Commission is certainly not refusing to provide us with the necessary information.
The Commission has reacted in a very constructive way to many of the comments which have been made, but this is not enough as far as we are concerned.
In recent years the debates have focused increasingly on the responsibility of the Member States, which account for some 80 % of EU spending and which are then responsible for controlling this expenditure.
The Commission is only responsible for monitoring this control process.
While this explains many a delay, it cannot serve as an excuse for everything.
The Commission remains responsible for failing to reveal the negligence of others and for not proposing adequate changes.
The budgetary control procedure of the European Parliament is still more powerful than that operated by the national parliaments.
We can only improve the effectiveness of our budgetary control system by making it absolutely clear who is actually responsible and perhaps by taking a brave decision once in a while.
