Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Mr des Places, established in his report that average income from agricultural activities, measured in terms of real net product, has fallen by 3.1 %.
I fully concur with him in this.
In fact, prices for products from livestock farming have fallen; in particular, pig prices have reached their lowest in years.
The profits from cereals have also been very much affected by downward pressure on prices.
This is why monthly surcharges must be retained.
In this agricultural debate, which differs from previous agricultural debates, I would ask you, Commissioner, to intervene in these two areas of cereals and pigmeat and, as you did in the case of beef, to use all possible means to relieve the market.
In the context of the reports on Agenda 2000, the decisions on agricultural prices are, as you said, of a temporary nature and consist mainly of an assessment.
I have a positive suggestion for you in terms of the Agenda.
Should you accept our proposals, the Agenda will be able to proceed far faster than hitherto envisaged; otherwise, we must prepare to go through a long rigmarole.
However, we have drawn up excellent proposals which we will be submitting to you in due course.
I would urge you not to take the path of least resistance in the area of hemp, but to support this environmentally friendly plant so that its introduction to the market can be successful.
With plants, there is no point in beginning with subsidies, then investing in the market, then immediately starting to reduce subsidies before the plants have been fully introduced to the market.
The existence of national hemp processing plants is thus jeopardized as well.
I welcome the extension of the derogation for the five new German Länder.
In principle, a lasting solution to this problem must be found in agricultural reform, in the beef and veal market organization regime.
I thank you expressly, Commissioner, for having responded so promptly in the area of set-aside.
I would like to commend you very highly on this.
I would like to encourage you to see this 10 % set-aside through to the end.
Otherwise we will never put an end to this desperate state of affairs and the Agenda 2000 negotiations will once again be crippled before the event by heavy investment; this is not good because once again we would be unable to determine how things really ought to be.
This path is not practicable as it would lead to a new set of problems.
New beef and milk surpluses are being produced and for this reason I think set-aside should be implemented in the same way in which it has already proved its merit.
I would also point to the early marketing premium for calves.
Mr President, please allow me to make one last comment.
I would like to praise the Commissioner for making a sensible proposal regarding how to introduce the euro - not through some complicated mechanism; instead, he wants to even out any losses which individual countries may incur by means of transparent measures.
