Mr President, before I comment on the Rules of Procedure, I should like to say thank you for something which my group has been pressing for since I have been a Member of the House.
Finally, I have discovered that the waste in my office is being separated.
There are new waste baskets, and I am very grateful that it has at last been possible to take this measure.
Now to the more serious matter.
In connection with investigations concerning ECHO, I have personally asked for the Commission to make a statement during the week.
My group has also presented this request to you in writing.
I and other members of the Committee on Budgetary Control have now received, about an hour ago, a detailed dossier from Mr Trojan with opinions on the relevant questions, which were raised in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
For this reason, I assume that we can come to an agreement on this with the Commissioners this week or next, if their offer of dialogue is to be taken seriously.
I would therefore no longer support the request for this matter to be discussed in plenary.
I should like to make one point, however.
The coinciding of our researches into ECHO with the Bösch report would have meant that a proper, thorough debate could have taken place in the House at 5 p.m. today on the question of how we deal with irregularities and suspicious factors concerning fraud in our own ranks.
I am sorry to have to say, Mr President, that with or without all your legal arguments, this political manoeuvre appears all too obvious to me, and whilst on the matter, I would tell you that your reference to Rule 50 is completely unfounded in my view!
It was clear from the start that the Bösch report is one that has been drawn up under Article 206.
If the President believed this not to be the case, then he could at the very least have consulted Mrs Theato or the rapporteur.
Instead, our DirectoratesGeneral are endlessly having to clarify references, remarks and legal eventualities, about which there is full agreement amongst the majority who voted through this report in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
It is not in order, Mr President, that you should undermine the political debate here with your legal arguments.
Incidentally, in addition to what Mr FabreAubrespy has requested, I would ask for the report which the competent parliamentary committee has adopted to be made available tomorrow by 12 noon to all Members of the House in all languages!
