Mr President, if we look at the map we can see just how important Azerbaijan is to us.
You would sometimes think that our political leaders had no maps in their offices, only paintings, yet they should really be looking at the geographical details over and over again.
A glance at the map should give us serious cause for concern: the risk of war is mounting around the world.
Think of what is still going on in Africa, and the tension between Iran and Afghanistan that could so easily spill over the borders.
In Azerbaijan there is still the problem with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh and the Armenian-occupied areas of the country, a problem which needs to be resolved before it is too late.
All too often problems have been put off and put off until they become completely intractable, as could well soon be the case in Bosnia.
You only have to watch what is happening in Kosovo.
Azerbaijan is also important to us for other reasons.
It is a country with enormous economic potential, and even if its problems have meant that its economy has not developed as it should - the farming sector in particular leaves a lot to be desired - it still remains of considerable importance to us in the long term.
There is another reason why Azerbaijan is of interest to us: its close relations with Turkey.
When I visited Atatürk's mausoleum there was a book in which visiting heads of state could write their thoughts, and Azerbaijan's president had written 'Atatürk, your Turks are back'.
This was when the Soviet system collapsed, and it shows how important Turkey is in the region and how vital it is to cooperate with Turkey, yet we keep doing all sorts of things that prevent us from cooperating, which is politically very short-sighted.
The tension between Iran and Afghanistan shows the sort of long-term risks that we need to prevent from arising in the first place, because once things have started it is too late to turn the clock back.
This is why I believe we need to recognise the importance of Azerbaijan.
The negotiations that we have allowed to drag on and all these little details that may help to solve small issues fail to get to grips with the main problem.
Our overall relations with this whole area are symptomatic of enormous weakness, are causing major irritation and are simply further proof of the need to make rapid progress in this field.
Although it is only one small step, I should nevertheless like to offer my warmest thanks to Mr Schwaiger for his report, and I can only hope that his dynamism will help to ensure that considerable further progress is made in relations with Azerbaijan.
