Madam President, I want to congratulate the rapporteur, and I am pleased that Parliament is once again advocating the implementation of the rights enshrined in the Treaty, in the framework of citizenship of the Union.
I would like to suggest that we take a look at the fundamental significance of citizenship of the Union.
What is it all about?
I firmly believe that it means the Union recognizing nothing less than that our citizens are the driving and sovereign forces of the European unification process.
Citizenship of the Union therefore plays a key part in legitimizing the Union.
And it is not just legitimized indirectly via national governments and treaties, but also directly, personally and immediately, by giving all citizens a legal status.
Citizenship of the Union was, therefore, quite logically introduced in the Treaty on European Union to strengthen the protection of the rights and interests of the nationals of its Member States.
We are, therefore, looking at a statute that covers the fundamental and civil rights of all citizens.
So far, so good, as far as the theory goes.
In practice, however, we are still a very long way from achieving an all-embracing guarantee of fundamental and civil rights, from recognizing the citizen's sovereign role in integration.
Of the four freedoms, surely the most personal, the most existential, the most human is freedom of movement of persons, the implementation of which has been the most protracted, subject to the greatest reluctance and has had the most obstacles put in its way.
Border checks for individuals have not been abolished.
They have not been eliminated by the Schengen Agreement, but rather replaced by barriers that are sometimes even higher than the old ones we pledged to get rid of.
The right to vote and the right to stand for election to the European Parliament is often undermined, and even more so the right to participate in local elections.
These rights are often sabotaged to some extent, and in some capitals, in Vienna for example, they are limited to taking part in city district elections.
Consular protection is also virtually non-existent in practice.
However, I also believe that we have to look beyond the Treaty texts, and the rights enshrined in the Treaty, to the comprehensive protection of fundamental and civil rights.
I hope that the special summit in Vienna will allow us to progress from mere technocratic institutional reform to genuine democratic reform.
