Madam President, thank you for accepting the compromise proposal put forward by Mr Titley against his own best interests.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, in principle I can endorse today's two reports.
I would like, in particular, to underline the Commissioner's words on the subject of the plan, what I as a parliamentarian would call a "carrot and stick' approach, a plan which in all likelihood promises a positive outcome.
Not because we have any sympathy or support for Mr Milosevic, but because we must endeavour to do everything in our power to save the situation before the crisis escalates.
This is neither the time nor the place to go into the missed opportunities of the past.
On the other hand, however, it only makes sense if Mr Milosevic realizes what will happen if he follows a certain course of action.
And, Mr Commissioner, I would also like to lend my full support to your comments on the investment ban.
I believe it is true that the sanctions, which are hurting, have made time a more critical issue for Yugoslavia.
But sanctions only hurt if they are truly universal and are observed by everyone.
Here the contacts with Russia are particularly necessary.
I would also like to endorse this plan on behalf of my group.
Sanctions must hurt, but on the other hand there must also be a pay-off, in the truest sense of the word, if Milosevic is prepared to operate a reasonable policy.
So our absolute support goes to Albania and FYROM.
I am delighted that the WEU has decided to become involved.
This is linked to the report which we have already debated at some length.
We must use all the measures available to us.
I also believe that the joint deployment of police forces would be very significant since the Serbian police do not enjoy a sufficient level of confidence and trust amongst the Kosovo Albanians.
Finally, I also believe that it is very important that we talk to the forces in Bosnia.
As far as they are concerned, nonintervention in Albania, in Kosovo and in FYROM is tantamount to an invitation to stir up the conflict again.
For this reason I would like to give my support to the reports and above all to the package of measures which the Commissioner has outlined.
