Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that we should compliment the Council on its excellent proposal for the first Executive Board of the ECB.
Its proposal has successfully met all the obligations stipulated in Article 109 a of the Maastricht Treaty.
It is my conviction that any further debate on the term of office of the future president is unnecessary since Mr Duisenberg has been appointed for eight years and this is in accordance with the Treaty.
However, the Maastricht Treaty requires a unanimous vote in the Council, in other words the appointment is a political decision, and so there must also be negotiations with regard to the individuals involved.
The independence of the Executive Board is guaranteed exclusively by the fact that re-election is not permitted.
This is not a matter which we really aired with Mr Duisenberg, although we did discuss the length of his term of office.
The hearing revealed that the six names proposed are all excellent candidates.
Although there were differences in their statements and in their presentations to the House, there can be no doubt as to their qualifications.
All the candidates explained quite clearly that they would advocate a mixture of monetary control and inflation targets as the number one tool in ensuring the monetary stability of the euro.
In actual fact, contrary to what Mrs Randzio-Plath said earlier, under Article 105 the primary objective is monetary stability, to which the question of employment is only secondary.
Only a stable euro, a coordinated finance policy and strict observation of Article 104 taken in conjunction with the stability pact can offer a guarantee of sustained success.
Inflation is not the key to labour market problems as we heard quite clearly at the hearing.
Allow me to make one further comment on Mr Metten.
The members of the socialist and communist groups questioned the qualifications of one of the candidates.
I have the impression - and this was borne out in the vote - that this was due not to a genuine question of suitability, but rather to the fact that the candidate in question was an adviser to a Christian Democrat prime minister and, in addition, had worked for many years for the Employers' Association.
I would ask you to leave these arguments to one side and to vote together for a good, sensible Executive Board.
