Madam President, with subjects such as these we are used to seeing just the women of the House here.
I especially welcome the fact that a few gentlemen are present, particularly on our side of the House, and indeed more here than on the side which in general appears to be so sensitive to these kinds of issues.
The fact that Lord Plumb has just chosen the wrong moment to leave is another matter!
Ladies and gentlemen, time and time again people complain about the fact that development cooperation does not adequately deal with or take into consideration the cultural conditions in the respective countries.
Even when we try to take account of gender issues in development policy we are still faced with the fact that societies in other countries have a traditional division of responsibilities, and we all know that trying to make radical changes never works.
So our first concern should be to identify the areas which especially affect women and then to step up our support for them.
Projects that are put forward for instance in the field of food provision or health are particularly successful.
For the same reason, in a whole series of countries, projects involving personal loans to women are also working.
Their repayment ethic is well documented in all the reports.
In my opinion however, education should still be our top priority, not only because the proportion of illiterate women is especially high, but also because a higher level of education and training brings greater awareness of the issues of demographic development, and educated women would be more open to birth control.
We must, though, remember one thing - whenever broadening the scope for women affects the scope for men, there are two possibilities: the outcome is either conflict or consensus.
The latter is certainly always better for families.
We should also not allow women to be encumbered with the entire responsibility for demographic development, particularly with regard to family planning.
This is an unusual approach, where the gender aspect means that both sides, men and women, have responsibility.
This report, like those on other subjects, calls on the Member States to cooperate.
This is a subject that crops up again and again at every opportunity in the field of development.
I would be very grateful if the Commission could give us feedback on successful examples of cooperation, so that we can at least cross off one area and say that it actually works there.
My thanks to the rapporteur.
