Mr President, the course of this debate on giving discharge for the 1996 financial year has in my view demonstrated two different things.
The first is the fact that the EU and its staff are better than their reputation suggests.
In many respects the content of the various reports under discussion today has shown that a great deal of what Europe and the staff of the EU are doing is progressing smoothly.
However, the reports have also shown that there are many weaknesses and deficiencies which we cannot ignore.
I should now like briefly to say something about three of these issues.
Firstly, it is a scandal that the results of the Committee of Inquiry into the transit system are being implemented at such a snail's pace.
There is some kind of paradox here.
Computers are getting faster every day.
Every six months a new generation comes on to the market and all the while the computerization of the whole system is proceeding ever more slowly.
Now to my second point.
In recent days and weeks we in this House have been engaged in an intensive debate on the completely inadequate use of resources in central and eastern Europe, particularly in respect of the PHARE, TACIS and MED programmes.
With negotiations on new membership barely started, this completely inadequate deployment of funds hardly augurs well for the future.
Finally to my third point.
We have established on numerous occasions, particularly in connection with the BSE Committee of Inquiry, that we in the European Union - and particularly at Commission level - need a disciplinary code for our officials which will put an end to the Commission claiming with fascinating regularity that its hands are tied by the existing disciplinary code and that therefore there is no point in its even trying.
We have received an undertaking from the President of the Commission, no less, that this Commission will be presenting a new disciplinary code.
We look forward to it.
The postponement of the discharge must be taken seriously.
We do not want the situation in the autumn to be the same as it is now.
