Mr President, I must firstly offer the rapporteur my very sincere thanks.
Her task was not easy, but she managed it very well.
Access to further vocational training is of crucial importance to all employees.
Conversely, well-trained employees are the basis for commercial success for every employer.
Completely inadequate information and obsolete statistical data cannot form reliable bases for a good and meaningful analysis.
To this extent the Commission's report is unfortunately not very informative.
On the other hand, the Commission has presented no evaluation at all of the contribution of the joint programmes in its initiatives.
Although on a European level the social partners are in agreement about the factors which are significant for the promotion of access to further vocational training, but unfortunately there is a serious difficulty because there is no agreement about the measures to be taken and the implemental levels.
Further action must therefore be taken here because this makes it difficult to establish common prerequisites and the performance indicators proposed by the rapporteur.
In the relevant training programmes the financing of pilot projects must definitely be taken into account.
The measures should in particular include women as well as small and medium-sized companies.
Information events with the participation of the social partners could in fact represent useful aids.
A coordination of the projects in the particular sphere of employment with those in the sphere of further vocational training is required.
A framework agreement on the opening of business enterprises for vocational training is certainly desirable.
However, I would venture to doubt whether our own assessment and advisory services, which would again incur costs, are absolutely necessary.
Allow me to point out a danger.
In the opinion of the social partners the recommendations of the Council in 1993 on access to further vocational training unfortunately scarcely had any effects on developments in the Member States.
And in the opinion of the ETUC there is only a very limited number of successful examples.
This means that the lack of reliable and stable structures and mechanisms is hindering successful work in this area.
The social partners have so far failed to agree as to whether a Directive is necessary.
This must be considered in detail, and it is also a question of subsidiarity.
This question therefore involves the principle of subsidiarity.
There are still some hurdles to be cleared for a successful implementation of the guidelines to this report They must, however, be overcome forthwith in the interest of employees and employers.
