Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Lannoye report was adopted in committee by a large majority, and my group supports the amendments before us.
Mr De Coene, you have just reminded us how illogical people can sometimes be.
I think it is human nature not always to be logical.
Nevertheless, I think we should try to proceed logically, and that is why I think we keep encountering a particular fundamental problem more and more often recently.
I am referring to the legal basis.
Article 43 is normally taken as the basis for draft directives concerned with the production and marketing of agricultural products, as listed in Annex II to the EC Treaty, and therefore relates to the achievement of Common Agricultural Policy objectives.
Alternatively, there is Article 100a - the codecision procedure.
This legal basis relates to the establishment and functioning of the internal market by approximation of the provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States - that is, harmonization.
Harmonization directives should guarantee the free movement of the products in question.
The Commission proposal which inspired Mr Lannoye's report is concerned with five products, namely sugar, honey, fruit juices, milk and jam.
These are all pre-processed products derived solely from agricultural products.
Even the milk referred to is condensed or dried milk.
The Commission has taken Article 43 as the legal basis.
We consider Article 100a to be the correct legal basis, even if things have not always been done this way in the past.
But things have also moved on in terms of legal precedents, not least the amendment of the treaties, and, unfortunately, current events.
Because of the BSE crisis, the Commission has undertaken that in future all legal instruments relating to foodstuffs and health protection should be based on Article 100a of the EC Treaty.
It is therefore very much to the point that the Commission proposal on sugar, honey, fruit juices, milk and jams includes provisions on consumer and health protection, namely labelling, the residual sulphur dioxide content of sugar, packaging, flavouring and vitamin content, water quality in fruit juices, limit values for nitrates, sodium, calcium, and so on, and labelling requirements for fruit juices, milk products and jams with added vitamins.
The whole area of Community law on foodstuffs is now dealt with under Article 100a of the EC Treaty.
We are therefore requesting in the strongest terms that the correct legal basis should be taken for this Commission proposal, that is Article 100a, and I would like to ask you again, Mr Bangemann, as a representative of the European Commission, whether you will support this European Parliament proposal.
Failing that, I shall request referral back to committee, if the Commission is not yet able to agree.
We are effectively fighting against Article 43 here, and if we are to change our position, we really need some form of reassurance.
We cannot just stand back and see what happens.
That is our request, and I hope the Commission will not only carefully consider it, but will also act consistently, and thus logically, in this matter.
