Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, if we want people to regard the European Parliament as their Parliament and to see the Members of this Parliament as their MPs, then we need to have universal European suffrage and a common set of rules and principles.
The same view was expressed 40 years ago and I only hope that we do not have to wait another 40 years to see it happen.
On behalf of my group I wish to thank the rapporteur, Mr Anastassopoulos, and to congratulate him on his report.
We agree with him.
We agree in particular with the principle of proportional representation as the democratic system of suffrage.
We also support the idea of preferential voting, addressing incompatibilities and the creation and development of European lists, even though this process is fraught with major technical difficulties.
If we have submitted amendments, these are aimed at speeding up the whole process and at achieving a more democratic arrangement.
We are therefore of the opinion that the obligation to introduce equality for women should apply to the national Parties from 1999.
I hope, Mr Anastassopoulos, that we also have your agreement on this.
We also believe that the proposal for European lists should have a 2004 deadline, not a 2009 one.
If we do not try to get these reforms going, who will?
Others can be relied on to create delays!
As far as the question of democratization is concerned, I agree with all those who have expressed misgivings about regional constituencies.
At least there should be no pressure exerted here.
This could be handled by applying subsidiarity.
There would be two different types of Member in this House - one with European legitimacy and one with national legitimacy.
I am of the opinion that we need to think this through once again, to say nothing about the various possibilities for manipulating proportional representation.
Naturally the smaller groups in this House - and this is something which Mr Frischenschlager referred to - wish to drop this qualifying clause.
The strength of this House also lies in its representation.
A further reduction in the voting age would also be possible, in our view.
In closing I would like to make a further point.
I believe that current developments also require us to look at the representation of European interests and to bear in mind the development of European political parties.
This is also relevant to the report and is something which is directly associated with it.
If we wish to define and represent European interests, then we need to have European parties.
I believe that here too there are reasons for thinking that the parties present in this House must not just see themselves as European groups but should also align and organize themselves as such, if there is to be any point in having European electoral rights.
