Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I think that if this morning we review the history of these reports, we should again come back to the question of why we have a structural policy in the first place.
Can we say that the gap between rich and poor, which is probably one of the reasons why we have a structural and regional policy, really closed during the course of 1996?
What about the 18 million unemployed?
What about the dozens of millions of people who are living below the poverty line in this rich continent of Europe?
This is something which we pay too little attention to in our structural and regional policies, and the Commission is one of the main culprits here.
Secondly, Mrs Klaß established in her report that there has been a considerable increase in fraud in the area of structural funding, a fourfold rise, to be exact.
In the relevant report on fraud prevention for 1996, the Commission stated that 50 % of the irregularities were caused by the failure to submit proper documents and proof of expenditure.
But I have to do that every time I go on a business trip!
We are even being criticized for this at the moment.
It works for us.
And then what about the recovery process?
It is interesting to note that those countries which are complaining loudest at the moment about how their net balance will look in the new Agenda 2000 - in other words, well into the red - are the very ones which do not look too clever when it comes to recovery and to this type of fraud prevention.
Here I am referring in particular to Germany, which has only actually collected ECU 900 000 of the ECU 14m due for recovery.
I would just advise the Finance Ministers of the countries concerned to focus their concerns not just on the size of these contributions but also on how they are being used.
Then we would be getting somewhere.
Madam Commissioner, I hope that we can include these areas not just by saying that we need a little more control, but by making our structural policies a little more watertight in the coming years as far as fraud is concerned.
These reports, for which I heartily congratulate the rapporteurs, would then take us a step further down the road of European policy-making.
