Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the current phase of European integration, and particularly now with the Cardiff summit, the talk is once again of much greater subsidiarity.
Subsidiarity means, for example, that general economic conditions should primarily be regulated by individual Member States.
It also means, of course, that although these arrangements are not standardized, they must be mutually recognized by all parties involved.
For if this were not the case, our most important goal, the single market, would quite simply not function.
To this extent, the principle of complete technical harmonization which formed the basis for the corresponding 1985 directive is now obsolete.
This is something which Mr Donnelly from the Socialist Group emphasized quite specifically in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy.
In terms of technical legislation, the "new approach' is gaining considerable ground.
All it means is subsidiarity.
The single market should not be hampered, but it should not be over-regulated either.
However, if it proves impossible for a matter to be regulated or to be regulated adequately at Member State level, then we must proceed jointly to regulate in a uniform way at least the essential elements, only the essential elements in fact, at European level.
In vitro diagnostics is one such matter.
This draft directive represents a further step towards the completion of the single market, in particular for medical products.
But it is proving to be an area fraught with tensions.
On the one hand, we must allow producers free access to the European domestic market, but on the other we have to take into account health protection, particularly with regard to the use of these medical tests by individuals.
Nevertheless, this must not be allowed to become a pretext for setting up market barriers and anticompetitive measures.
During the very lengthy period it took to formulate this common position in the Council, we had to acknowledge that there was an increasing trend in some Member States towards excluding in vitro diagnostics from the single market.
In our view, that is the main reason for adopting this directive, and thereby creating a single market for these medical products, as quickly as possible.
We know that the manufacturers are waiting eagerly for free access to the market.
For this reason it is important that the amendments which have been submitted are also accepted by the Council and that the directive should be formally ratified, perhaps even before the summer recess.
The Council has already accommodated us on several points.
At any rate 36 of the 50 amendments submitted following the first reading have been accepted.
Nevertheless, we would like to stress that there is still room for improvement in the basic approach.
For this reason I, too, submitted several amendments to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, designed to dismantle the bureaucratic devices which are so costly to business.
The most important thing is that statistical requirements should not become preconditions for the introduction of the products themselves.
But this addition in Article 10 (2) must also apply in a consistent and logical manner to the provisions of Article 21 (2).
What we are dealing with here, however, is a fundamental phenomenon.
Discussions on disputed single market guidelines often last a very long time.
When the matter comes before Parliament, therefore, we often have to reach our decisions very quickly if we want to make the internal market a reality for the citizens of Europe.
This should also be taken into account in any future reform of the Treaty.
