Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office, at the beginning of your speech you quite rightly said that we need a means of preventing wars and that the enlargement of the European Union was an important component of this, as was a common foreign and security policy.
It is precisely in the area of common foreign and security policy that there is great potential in implementing the Amsterdam Treaty.
This will have to be achieved during your presidency, before the Vienna Summit.
We shall have to see whether the potential of the new troika, the planning and strategy unit, whether the decision-making potential will really lead to a higher level of European added value or whether it will just be a continuation of the classic intergovernmental approach of 'old policies in new bottles' .
I believe that you have a key role to play here.
Much the same applies to the integration of the Schengen Agreement.
We as a Parliament will watch very closely whether national bureaucrats negotiate to keep more elements of Schengen in the third pillar than necessary, instead of transferring them to the first pillar as envisaged in the Amsterdam Treaty.
There may well be a big row over this, if my information about the present state of negotiations in COREPER and in other bodies is correct.
So I would like specifically to draw your attention to this now.
Another point I would like to touch upon is this: you are quite right in saying that we have not made sufficient progress with the institutional reforms needed for enlargement, and that at the extraordinary summit, and after it, we will have to put the necessary conditions in a context that still has to be sorted out here.
I am sure it is evident that the European Parliament must have the last word on the ratification of the enlargement treaties.
Please remember, when work is being done on preparing institutional reforms - which we regard as a condition for enlargement -, to make sure that the agenda and the conduct of the agenda are arranged in such a way that the European Parliament, too, is satisfied with the institutional reforms, so that enlargement is not jeopardized.
That is why I believe it advisable to hold the necessary dialogue with the European Parliament at a very early stage.
This should not just take the form of motions for resolutions that the European Parliament kindly forwards to you; it must also be pursued at other levels and in a constructive manner.
Similarly, we also need to look at subsidiarity.
If you are going to deal with subsidiarity at the extraordinary summit, you need to realize that this has to be geared towards the present Treaty text.
This means that one of the two parties to the codecision procedure, namely the European Parliament, needs to have a similar view of subsidiarity to that of the summit.
If the summit interprets it differently from the European Parliament, you can forget the summit!
If that were the case, we would not follow that model, and given the possibilities open to us, the policy would continue as before.
That is why it is also important to involve the European Parliament in the preparations for the summit.
We must make it clear that we have to find new instruments, or perhaps rediscover old ones.
For instance, directives could once again be adopted in the form of framework directives, thus creating the necessary frame of reference at European level, but giving national legislatures sufficient latitude.
It is certainly not acceptable for the Council to inform us what we can do, and then cram everything it wants into its own decision-making process, and try to stop us to boot!
This needs to be done through cooperation between the Council and the European Parliament.
We also need to recognize that this will only work if the Council reforms itself properly.
Lastly, I have to say - and Klaus Hänsch has already referred to this - that the method adopted up to now by the Council in legislating on general matters is one of the biggest jokes in the European Union!
In this area, the Council, just like Parliament, needs to reorganize itself if it is to fulfil its legislative role.
If this clear division between the Council as executive and legislature is not recognized and this leads to a lack of clear guidelines, then you can decide whatever you want about subsidiarity, but it will not make any difference.
That is your homework!
(Applause)
