Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, comitology is neither about an esoteric lore nor a new religion.
In essence, it concerns rather democratic legitimation and the supranational nature of integration.
I wish to make this clear with regard to two points: firstly, the European Parliament is a co-legislator and budgetary authority with equal rights.
In the comitology procedure which was organised before the Treaty of Maastricht, the representatives of the Member States take a number of decisions in the expert committees which affect the legislative and budgetary powers of the European Parliament.
This has to be amended, because there was no codecision in 1987 and the codecision procedure has become the norm in Community legislation through the Treaty of Amsterdam.
It is therefore provided for in the protocol statement that the Council will present an amendment by the end of 1998, Parliament's only involvement in which will be to deliver an opinion.
That is not sufficient for us.
We now therefore wish to begin talks with the Council, in order to assert our position strongly.
That is also the purpose of the resolution with which our debate today will end.
Secondly, the supranational nature of the integration process is a constant area of conflict between the interests of the individual Member States and the supranational perception of Community interests.
Legislative and budgetary procedures have until now largely done justice to this area of conflict.
At the level of implementing decisions, however, this balance has not yet been achieved.
Naturally, the interests of the Member States must be represented in doing this because the implementation of Community acts is mostly a matter for the Member States.
However, when implementing decisions of a general nature do not generally reflect the supranational level, what we have is back-door renationalisation.
The whole debate on subsidiarity demonstrates this problem.
In order to counteract this risk, the European Parliament is demanding a right of political control parallel to that of the Council of Ministers.
Certainly, the perception of common interests at supranational level is first and foremost your business, Commissioner, and is thus a matter for the Commission.
Since the management committee procedures often give the Council of Ministers the opportunity to outvote the Commission's position, however, the creation of a political counterbalance at parliamentary level is a sensible move.
We wish to have and we must obtain an interinstitutional agreement precisely on this basis.
