Mr President, I have a preliminary remark to make.
I would like to ask the Bureau to try to arrange even joint debates as thematically as possible, for it is rather complicated to trace a common thread of meaning between Burma, Nigeria and the 54th session of the Human Rights Commission in Geneva.
I say this in view of the fact that we have an audience.
But allow me to say something about the 54th session of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva.
For many people it represents hope, but it also disappoints many people.
For us, however, for the European Union - and therefore I would like to underline this very clearly here - it is a test case, to show to what extent the Union is serious about its own human rights policy and how it converts its own theories into practice.
Many countries, particularly Denmark, were all the more dismayed when some states of the European Union no longer supported the resolution on China introduced with great difficulty a year before.
Of course, no country is prevented from improving the situation of human rights in their own territory.
If that is really the case then we shall not be the last to confirm it.
This year, too, another proposed resolution is before the European Parliament, which calls on the Council to define joint priorities in Geneva.
The list of countries criticized because of their human rights policies is still very long, much too long, in fact, and just a few examples are Algeria, Iraq, Iran, Nigeria and the Democratic Republic of Congo.
In addition there are problems such as the international trade in human cargo, namely in women and children.
Nevertheless, we are not abandoning hope that the European Union will show a common strong front, for only then can we do anything.
This is directed equally at the President of the Council and the representative of the Commission.
Given, in particular, the enlargement towards the east of the European Union, we should take these questions very seriously and measure our own attitude against the criteria which we apply to other countries.
This applies above all in the year of the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which we want to see extended by an international Court of Human Rights.
In my opinion it is an exhortation to ourselves.
