Mr President-in-Office, in the light of past experience I would like emphatically to acknowledge the willingness of the Council presidency to enter into intense discussion with the European Parliament.
For me one of the highlights of the British presidency was Mr Gordon Brown's statement to the European Parliament on 2 May.
I might add that given the splendid explanation of the historic decisions, there was only one thing missing: the United Kingdom's immediate declaration of accession to monetary union.
I wish to point out that I regret the Commission's decisions to lift the export ban for the whole of the United Kingdom.
This is not in keeping with the exact wording of the Florence agreements.
And I just want to add that for two days now I have had in my hands a late report from the EU inspectors.
Here it states, and I quote: ' The level of non-compliance is rather high.
The official authorities do not check in the credible way, contrary to instructions.'
I could go on.
Against this background and also in view of a visit from the European Parliament, we were treated to a show at the time, but not to the reality of practical implementation.
I would like to state most clearly to Mr de Vries and Mr Santer: the issue the German Chancellor has raised concerning subsidiarity and the need for a more equitable system of income and expenditure, is supported by the large majority of the German population, and more recently by the Ministerial Conference of the Federal States.
And that is why, Mr Santer, it should be noted from the discussion on the agenda that the Commission is not only the engine of integration, but also very much a party in this affair.
If we wish to keep to the timetable in the course of the German presidency, there are two conditions that have to be met.
Firstly, the Commission must submit its agenda proposals in a revised form in autumn in the light of the current discussions also taking place in Parliament.
Secondly, we need a Council presidency under the proven leadership of Chancellor Helmut Kohl if this is to be drawn to a successful conclusion, because we should not leave the matter to amateurs.
