Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, naturally everything you have said merits our full support.
Nevertheless, I should like to preface my short speech with a few critical observations.
Commissioner, at first I gave you my full support in your differences with Mr Oostlander - I am not sure whether that was clear - but I still must question whether the European Union as a whole was prepared for what is now happening in Kosovo.
This is not the first time we have discussed Kosovo.
On one occasion, following a visit from the Delegation for relations with South-east Europe chaired by Mrs Pack, this House described Kosovo as a powder keg waiting to explode.
The European Union took little action.
There was neither any pressure exerted to open a European Union office in the area, nor was a special envoy appointed as we officially requested.
Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, I am ashamed when I turn on the television as I did this morning and see the American representative, the special envoy, in Pristina, but no special envoy from Europe.
Yes, the British Foreign Minister went to Belgrade, yes there is now a representative there, but why - knowing that it is the most dangerous potential flashpoint in Europe, knowing that it could develop into a conflagration at any time - did the European Union fail to do more in the past?
I know that it is not an easy matter since we have no proper contact on the Yugoslavian or Serbian side.
Nevertheless, the Americans are on the spot with their special envoy again and all Europe, and all the world, can see just who is tackling the problem on the spot - not the European Union but the United States!
I do not seek to lay the blame with anyone in particular, but we must acknowledge our failures.
We have been negligent.
Once again we have neglected a part of Europe.
Why is it so important for Europe to deal with this problem?
Firstly because, quite clearly, fundamental human rights are at stake!
Consequently, we must tell Mr Milosevic in no uncertain terms that we cannot accept his claims that this is a purely internal problem.
No, the protection of a minority, or to be more precise in this case, the majority of the people in the region is a matter which goes far beyond national borders.
Perhaps there is something else, perhaps we have failed to make it clear enough to Rugova and his people that we are simply advocating autonomy within Yugoslavia.
What is currently happening, the fact that Mr Rugova and others are calling ever more vociferously for independence and for a change in the borders, is also unacceptable to us.
We need of course to get our message across not only to Milosevic, but also to Rugova and the Albanians.
But it may be too late at least to change the mood.
Fired by frustration, the call for independence are growing stronger and stronger.
I fully support the measures, Commissioner.
We must show that we are trying to quell the fire and that we are helping those, in Macedonia in particular, who are especially affected.
I come now to the second reason why it is so important, why a conflagration could develop: Albania is unstable for unfortunately there are in Albania, too, forces - in particular those led by ex-President Berisha - who are now agitating, who are now stirring things up, who are now trying to pour oil onto this fire thus forcing Fatus Nano, the Prime Minister, who was initially very restrained, to take a more extreme position.
Thirdly, and not for the first time of course, the situation looks like a clash between Christian Europe and Islam.
Once again this argument rears its head.
On Friday I had a detailed conversation with Siljdzic, the Prime Minister of Bosnia Herzogovena, in which that very point came up.
This situation is, therefore, particularly dangerous and we have to do something about it.
I agree with you that we must apply political pressure, and economic pressure where necessary, although I do not see blanket sanctions as our strongest weapon.
Nonetheless, I am in complete agreement with the actions of the contact group.
We should consider whether a situation might arise in which we would send in forces of order - such action would naturally depend on the agreement of both sides - at least to calm the situation.
Milosevic must realize that, if the worst comes to the worst and he chooses violence, there is the possibility of military intervention as well.
If we are to avoid military intervention and if we are to force Milosevic to do as the President of the Council suggests, he must be convinced of this.
Mr President, I would like to lend my support to everything that has been said, but also to point out once again that, unfortunately, we missed our chance to set our preconditions in advance and to back them to the hilt.
I would like to see the European Union advocate autonomy for Kosovo, but prevent any changes being made to the borders in the region.
That would lead to another conflagration.
