Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the brevity of the speech by the Commissioner Marín should perhaps be a symbolic expression of the fact that we have not much time left.
I believe Mr President-in-Office of the Council that we should not lose sight of one thing: if the European Union were able to work out a common position then perhaps the message to Saddam Hussein would be clear, that he cannot play around with the world community.
This is further proof that our inability to formulate common foreign and security policies does not lead to the avoidance of war but in fact makes it even more probable.
Therefore, a greater ability on the part of Europeans to take action on such questions would be a gain for peace.
I hope that will finally be understood by political directors and foreign ministers, so that sensible mechanisms can come into force for a common foreign and security policy.
We would all like to have diplomatic solutions.
A military conflict should be avoided.
Therefore my group, too, is totally convinced that the mission to be undertaken on Friday by Kofi Annan must receive full support, in order to render a military conflict impossible.
We wish him every success with it.
But it must be clear that this must result in all United Nations resolutions being complied with and that there can be no compromise in the implementation of inspections designed to remove all weapons of mass destruction from Iraq.
Iraq has biological and chemical weapons of mass destruction, associated with the development of rocket programmes which represent a danger not only to the immediate locality in the Middle East but in the medium and long term can be a great danger to ourselves and our peoples.
For this reason there is great interest in their removal.
We have the difficulty of choosing between options, not all of which are pleasant.
But in my opinion, to do nothing and to let Saddam Hussein carry on ducking and diving as he has done for seven years with the world community, would lead to the spread of weapons of mass destruction and we sit there like paper tigers, who have lost any claim to authority in this world.
For this reason it must be possible, if the resolutions of the United Nations are not fully recognised and implemented in the near future, to take further steps to compel Saddam Hussein to comply with the resolutions.
If this should lead to military conflict it will not be the responsibility of those who want compliance with the will of the international community but of those who do not comply with decisions of the United Nations, that is Saddam Hussein.
We should make this responsibility quite clear and stand behind these decisions.
