Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Sir Leon Brittan, I am delighted that you are here.
We have reached a critical point in our relations with Belarus and I hope very much that this will be the last resolution we discuss and that we will now finally be able to move along a more positive route.
The latest decisions taken by the Belarus Government represent a serious breach of the Vienna Convention on Diplomatic Relations.
The Council's decisions merit our full support.
It now appears that new negotiations are on the cards and a settlement to the conflict seems to be in sight.
The Belarus Government has signalled a serious interest in finding a positive solution.
Clearly this is something we welcome.
However, we should also see the conflict as an opportunity to consider just what dangerous ground we are on.
A change of direction in our relations is urgently needed.
Belarus is part of the European family.
Nobody wants it to be isolated.
It will soon be our immediate neighbour.
I therefore particularly support the wording proposed by the Council and would like to suggest that we include the following words under paragraph 1.
I would suggest that we take the English text, unfortunately I do not have the original here, just the German version which is more or less the same and states that it fully supports the Council's desire, expressed in the Common Position of 13 July, to develop more constructive relations with Belarus.
But this must include clear positive signals from Belarus.
The European Parliament has shown right across the political board just how serious is its interest in improving relations.
But naturally this means respecting the democratic rules of the game.
We cannot, and of course we will not, overlook this point.
The delegation had an extremely positive meeting in Brussels.
Ambassador Wick illustrated clearly and pragmatically the steps he believes should be taken in order to bring about an improvement in relations.
We are planning another meeting in Belarus in November and I would hope that all of us here will have the opportunity to attend and to continue our work on improving relations.
