Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Joint Assembly is a body that is a forum for discussion and this must be particularly stressed as it is the only model in which development cooperation, which is the link to the principle of parity, is monitored by Parliament.
This in turn gives us the opportunity to discuss its decisions here in Parliament as well and to draw the appropriate conclusions from them.
I should like to refer to the general report which occupied us in two sittings last year.
It was a great pleasure and honour for me to be the general rapporteur and find out and monitor the outcomes of the big UN conferences - ranging from the education conference which was held in Thailand to the recent conference in Rome on food security - and to monitor what happened and what was still outstanding.
All of this can also be seen as part of the subject that likewise kept us busy last year and will continue to do so, namely the future of the Lomé Convention.
There has been a continuous development of the content of the Lomé Convention right up to the present convention, which also has weaknesses.
These weaknesses must be remedied.
Mr Robles Piquer's report also contains proposals which should be welcomed so that some constructive work can be done.
Happily, it has been possible in these past few years to define the role of women as a key role for development; we were able to intensify this work in joint assemblies and it has been a thread passing through the entire ACP cooperation.
The emphasis must be increased in this direction.
There is now great unanimity on this point but the practical activities leave a lot to be desired.
We can convince ourselves of this on a regular basis when we spend some time in ACP countries and take a look around.
There is still much to be done to involve the ordinary people and this means above all giving women a role and letting them participate in the development processes of ACP cooperation - all the way from planning via implementation to evaluation.
Women have the decisive role in all the issues that contribute to the security of daily life including, above all, food security and health security.
In our practical work it must be made clear that no measures may be taken that result in the marginalization of others; this is prepared for by all the discussions we hold, by the working groups that are set up and by all the activities in which the partner countries of the European Union and the ACP community take part.
This situation can arise very easily.
For example, changes in trading patterns conceal the danger that women in particular are excluded from small business and their earning power is diminished.
They do not have as much access to the formal sector and are often thrown back on the informal sector.
The problem is the same as in Europe; ultimately they are also responsible for the home and family and are therefore restricted in their choice of occupation.
Measures must be taken here to compensate for this and, when all is said and done, the best advisors there can be are the women in these countries themselves.
We are well on our way.
We have included this in all the areas that have been discussed, ranging from environmental issues, via issues of preventive health care and economic development to human rights.
In the meantime some very intensive consultation is taking place to find ways of applying human rights as women's rights, of understanding democratic rights in such a way that the equal participation of women is carried through in all of society's decision-making processes - in our ACP partner countries as well.
