Madam President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I have today already endeavoured to indicate what a member of the public can see by turning on his television set, and I have already pointed out just how negative the impression must be as a result of there not being a European Union representative in Kosovo while the Americans are very well represented indeed.
Another thing which any average upright citizen with a concern for law and order cannot have failed to notice at the moment is the great song and dance being made about Mr Pinochet, a man who led a regime of torturers and murderers and who, having been the head of the army for many years, is now taking up an undoubtedly well-paid and comfortable position as a senator in his country.
I am aware of the political thinking which lies behind this decision, but none of us can be happy with the fact that people who kill, murder and torture others are then courted and rewarded with offices of state.
We are still far from happy with the situation in Bosnia, although some progress has been made.
However, the masterminds behind the scenes who, historically, have time and again managed to avoid prosecution, have often been able to avoid all responsibility as well.
This is why the issue of an international criminal court is so important and so hard to achieve.
I know the political calculations which are being made when it is said that these matters are not important, that it is better to make peace than to deliver criminals to justice.
However, war and the arguments continue.
We must pursue a policy which aims to achieve both of these goals: to secure peace and to bring to justice those responsible for mass killings and serious crimes.
I am no moralizer and I also know that politics is not always about morals, but I am nevertheless very happy that Mr Cook's British Presidency, and you too, Mr Henderson, have repeatedly stressed that even foreign policy must find room for a minimum of morality and morals, whether it is in relation to weapons and weapons transfer or an international criminal court.
Foreign policy needs a moral dimension, and the public will only accept such a policy if it comes with a little morality.
For this reason, and on behalf of my Parliamentary group, I give my full and total support to this joint motion.
It is exactly in line with our objectives, the creation of an independent criminal court.
Politics and courts have different roles, but this court must be free to act independently.
It must be able to call witnesses who are obliged to appear.
They must not, as happened in the case of one Croatian politician, be able to avoid testifying.
This independence must be guaranteed, and it is with this objective in mind that tomorrow we will give this joint motion our full support.
