Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I was not satisfied either by the explanation of the President-in-Office of the Council or your explanation, Mr van den Broek.
We are talking about the fate of people who are forced to escape because they are threatened life and limb, because their property is threatened, because they are driven out of their native country, because members of their family have been killed and because their basic living standards have been destroyed.
Although what the President-in-Office of the Council tells us, and what you tell us, is right, cannot be denied and holds true in all respects, it is not enough.
We cannot respond to these phenomena merely with a technocratic reaction.
You made it precisely clear what the spirit at the Commission and in the Council of Ministers is when you said 'We must protect people from persecution, but we must also protect the citizens of the European Union from floods of refugees' .
No!
We do not have to!
The citizens of the European Union are not currently threatened by any flood of refugees.
This involves 800 people whom I myself was able to visit in camps and of whom the overwhelming majority come from the Iraqi part of Kurdistan.
Who are the 50 % currently in the camps in southern Italy escaping from then?
They are escaping from Saddam Hussein for example, and not only from Turkey but from the Turks as well.
But when Saddam Hussein occupies Kuwait and when this man produces weapons which are internationally outlawed and forbidden, an international alliance comes together to overpower him, which is right.
We talk about the victims of this man here as if we had to ward them off.
This spirit is dangerous, it poisons the atmosphere in the European Union and with this kind of policy and this kind of discussion we help such powers to have the upper hand in the European Union, who want what Mr Nassauer does not want.
We do not want a fortress Europe, that we agree about, but we are not the majority.
There is a whole group of people in this Parliament as well who do not think like you, Mr Nassauer, and do not think like I do, who want a fortress Europe and who construe this kind of debate which we are conducting as a justification and legitimation of what they think is right.
Therefore I hold a different opinion.
We ought not to confine ourselves to saying that we need harmonized law in the European Union, we also need something else.
Do you know what?
A ban on weapon exports in such areas, for example.
And we need an international outlawing of countries which pursue their policies in contempt of international law, as Turkey does in northern Iraq, and countries which unscrupulously repress minorities and deny them cultural and ethnic self-determination, because these are the real causes of their having to escape.
Please also allow us to discuss these substantively political reactions here as well, in addition to the mechanical reactions.
