Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have less than a year; by then everything must be in place - everything that we want to have discussed and decided in relation to Agenda 2000.
Less than a year is not much time.
So we really must set about rolling up our sleeves and getting started.
I believe Elisabeth Schroedter's report is a good start.
It provides a great deal of information without anticipating decisions which we have yet to debate intensively.
I believe this is exactly the right approach.
In past debates - at this juncture, I would remind you of the plenary session in Brussels - we have experienced what happens if we try to lay down measures rashly or in hasty speculation.
These cannot be the terms under which we work; instead, we must discuss matters seriously and thus find useful solutions.
The report provides some guidelines, even if I would not accept in blank everything contained in it.
There are also further amendments.
We will vote on it tomorrow.
Then we will finally have a result.
But I believe it is important that this step has been taken.
What is the aim of all this?
The aim in developing Agenda 2000 is not only to distribute money.
It is to achieve a balanced system.
It is also a question of working together to improve and develop an instrument of aid, and of how we get along together.
There can be no question of our standing here and saying "We have received money from the Member States, ' and the Member States saying, "Give it back to us - we know best how to distribute it.'
No, the aim is not to achieve a European added value.
We must work together on this.
I believe that in many places we must point out weaknesses.
In the conflict between globalization and regionalization, it cannot only be a question of bringing as much as possible back and saying to the people at home, "Do what you want with it, ' and sufficing with that.
Nevertheless, we will have to examine the Commission's proposals carefully.
Here, in many places, it is necessary to introduce simplification and the transparency which has been announced.
We will examine this carefully, as it has been pointed out to us that simplification, for example in partnership or in programming, would, of course, bring with it an increased level of pressure and bureaucracy, which we do not want.
We will consider this very carefully.
In my view, our task over the next few weeks and months will be to look at which countries need money and which countries receive it.
Of course, we must also ensure that this Community instrument is developed into a transparent instrument with which we can work together for the future of our regions.
