Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, as you have seen, the start of each Council presidency is a time for fine phrases and good wishes.
By the end, the praise is sparing: by the fruits of your labours shall ye be known.
Parliament and the European public will pass judgement come December.
I am convinced that at the end of the year Parliament's palate will be sufficiently discerning to decide whether the delicate outer case that you have served up today contains a substantial filling or just hot air.
We already know what people in Europe expect and we must say it today - jobs, democracy and a fair distribution of wealth.
Those are the deficiencies that people are suffering from.
Those are the criteria by which your presidency will be judged.
Many people waiting at the gates of Europe expect to be admitted into an area of peace and stability in the Union.
The programme that you have presented today, Mr President-in-Office, gives rise to a number of concerns.
What you do not sow, you cannot reap!
If you do not recognize the existence of problems, you cannot solve them.
You have not addressed the urgent questions relating to democratic reform in your programme today.
You have not said a word about the programme for the extraordinary summit, which Parliament is pinning certain hopes on, as it is after all the continuation of a protracted debate.
As Mr Hänsch has already said, the Council has put the European Union in this position because of its failure in Amsterdam, and you have not been able to allay our fears today.
I welcome your critical remarks and reservations about subsidiarity.
However, I regret that you have said nothing about the need to overcome the democratic deficit, which lies chiefly in the Council.
Are you prepared to make sure that openness prevails in the Council's law-making?
Are you prepared to subject the area of justice and internal cooperation to constitutional checks, that is judicial and parliamentary checks?
Are you prepared to use this extraordinary summit finally to tackle the institutional reform that the Council has dragged out for so long?
These questions remain unresolved, as do questions about the future of codecision by Parliament, its budgetary sovereignty, common electoral law, a catalogue of fundamental rights, and so on.
This is no time for transitional presidencies, it is a time for vision!
It is not true that the political dynamism of Europe simply needs to be upheld.
It needs to be recovered.
This presidency needs to be an icebreaker!
As far as social affairs go, I did not hear a single word about fiscal harmonization, which is one of your own Finance Minister's ambitions.
Not a word about reducing working hours or about a common economic policy!
I hope that these gaps can still be filled, so that we are talking about a real filling.
Unfortunately, up to now it all looks suspiciously like hot air!
