Madam President, in preparing the discharge to be given to the Commission in respect of the 1996 financial year, we had a pleasing new experience.
For the first time the Council complied with a request which Parliament had been making for many years by submitting in good time its position on the discharge, with the result that a detailed debate could be held in the company of the President-in-Office of the Council prior to the vote being taken in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
For this we should like to express our thanks to Council Minister Liddell.
As far as the actual discharge for 1996 itself is concerned, things seem less than promising.
In the excellent report which was adopted unanimously in the Committee on Budgetary Control, and for which I would like to offer my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur, Mr Elles, a proposal is made to postpone the discharge and, I believe, justly so.
On the basis of the report submitted by the Court of Auditors, for which we again express our thanks to the President, Professor Friedman, who is present here today, and to all members of the Court, and on the basis of in-depth information and discussions with the Court and with the Commission, the rapporteur lists five important reasons which justify postponing the discharge.
Then we also have the negative findings of the statement of assurance, which the Court of Auditors delivered particularly in respect of the Structural Funds, while its assessment of the agricultural sector was somewhat more encouraging.
There is still a period of grace for assessing the DAS, but once the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified, Parliament is obliged to incorporate its results fully into the discharge.
I fully agree with the comments made here by Mr Wynn, that our various institutions should first discuss how we should handle the DAS in future, how this is to be set up and how this is to be used.
As far as I know we have never before had such a large number of grounds for postponement.
Does this prove that the deficiencies in implementing the budget are on the increase?
What it does prove, however, is that Parliament in its supervisory role condemns these deficiencies and insists that they be eradicated.
If the Commission fails to comply with our demands before the September 1998 deadline, then the refusal to give discharge could ultimately remain in place, and this would be followed by a vote of noconfidence and the subsequent dismissal of the Commission.
But we should not make threats.
The rapporteur is quite specific about this and I agree with him.
Our approach is, on the contrary, a constructive one.
By highlighting the weaknesses and by urging that these be effectively overcome, we are in fact contributing to the efficient and rational use of budgetary funds and are helping to build public confidence in Europe and in its institutions.
If we examine the individual points of criticism contained in the present resolution, then it becomes clear that the present Commission can no longer plead that these deficiencies were the fault of its predecessors.
It has been in office long enough to have brought in the necessary improvements.
This applies equally to the transit procedure, where little progress has been made towards the introduction of computerization - though the Commission itself considered this a priority matter - and to the elimination of mismanagement and fraud, as attested by the deficient administration of the PHARE, TACIS and MED programmes.
I will say nothing here about events in the tourism sector.
The grievance often expressed concerning the failure to carry through the integrated control system for agricultural spending is in this respect just as significant as the inefficiency in promoting SMEs.
As far as UCLAF is concerned, I am pleased to see that what is being said is very much in keeping with what Parliament has been aiming at for many years.
I freely admit that the Commission has been making efforts to move towards our demands, especially in recent months, and I agree with Mrs Gradin, with you Mr Liikanen and with Mr van den Broek, that we should gradually reduce our catalogue of complaints.
But this must be done by September, and so I would ask that you give us clear-cut answers to clearcut questions.
This is also something which applies to your officials.
Long-winded explanations in unintelligible language obscure more than they clarify.
In conclusion, let me offer the Commission some advice: do not confuse Mr Elles' statement that "the auditor is a watchdog not a bloodhound' with the saying "his bark is worse than his bite' .
In closing, allow me to express my thanks and recognition to the rapporteurs, Mr Wynn, Mr Blak and Mr Kellett-Bowman.
They have done an excellent job and their reports have been unanimously adopted by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I recommend this to the House.
