Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to emphasise that the Commission intends to take the Protocol on protection and welfare of animals annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam very seriously.
According to this protocol, and I quote, ' in formulating and implementing the Community's agriculture, transport, internal market and research policies, the Community and the Member States shall pay full regard to the welfare requirements of animals' .
Of course this protocol also has implications for the future development of the common agricultural policy.
The most important agricultural policy objectives are, first, to ensure that agricultural production reflects the wishes and requirements of consumers, and, second, to increase the competitiveness of European producers on international markets as well.
The approach set out in Agenda 2000 in July last year specified that the Commission wishes to improve the competitiveness of European agriculture both within the internal market and on the international market, whilst preventing the formation of new surpluses like the butter or grain mountains of the past.
Not only does the Commission propose a reorientation of the CAP with less focus on price support and more on direct income support, it also anticipates that production will in future be geared more to consumer demand, both quantitatively and qualitatively.
This should prevent new surpluses from accumulating and it should therefore also eliminate the need to export surplus beef.
But market orientation is not just about price.
It is equally important for consumers that food should be wholesome and of good quality, and that its origin should be clear.
Animal health and welfare naturally have a part to play here.
We therefore proposed in Agenda 2000, as part of a new policy for rural areas, that there should be more funds for agroenvironmental measures as a second arm of agricultural policy, and also more funds for animal welfare.
We hope that this policy too will have a positive effect.
However, please bear in mind that the Community has already adopted a panoply of animal protection and animal welfare measures, and that the European Union is undeniably doing a good job in this area by international standards.
These rules are subject to constant monitoring and will be developed further if necessary.
Regarding transport, measures in this area are concentrated more on improving transport conditions and less on a complete ban on transportation, as transport will always be necessary, whatever happens.
With a view to improving animal protection for cattle exports, the Council recently approved a proposal which will make the payment of export refunds conditional on compliance with EU animal protection and transport rules.
The Management Committee on Trade Mechanisms recently approved the corresponding implementing Regulation, so we can now adopt that Regulation.
