Mr President, I should also like to offer sincere thanks to Claude Desama.
Following on from what he said earlier, we might also say that Council presidencies come and go, but the rapporteur Claude Desama goes on forever.
He has certainly worked on these matters for a very long time and has ensured himself a place in the history books of European politics.
The real problem we have in this case is Article 18.2.
It is our intention that it should be possible for combined heat and power to purchase gas as cheaply as possible, in other words to be accepted as a customer, everywhere, in every country.
Now the objection that arises is that people say: "Well now, that calls the Council compromise into question.
They went to a lot of trouble in the Council, so why should we now extend the procedure by means of a process of negotiation?'
I am sorry, but I cannot accept this argument.
If we accept this argument, then all proposals from the Council are reasonable as a matter of principle, and we can give ourselves a relatively easy life.
Translating this to national Parliaments would mean that, if the government makes a legislative proposal, it clearly will have had a reason for doing so, and consequently the Parliament would have to give its agreement.
I cannot go along with that, although I concede that the procedure will, of course, be extended as a result.
But there is also a second point in relation to this matter.
At the same time as we are debating this gas directive, the Commission has presented a paper, an interesting communication on combined heat and power.
We, the Parliament - the rapporteur is Mrs Estevan Bolea - shall also demand that the contribution of combined heat and power within the European Union should be doubled or trebled.
What Parliament is doing here is a contradiction.
On the one hand, we are calling for a doubling or trebling of the role of combined heat and power; on the other, we are afraid to write into our directive that they may buy their gas wherever they like.
If Parliament behaves like this, we shall lose credibility.
That is the worst thing that can happen in politics, and we are being severely punished for it at the moment in some places in the Member States.
That is why I ask you to support the Socialists' amendment, and then we shall see what happens.
After all, we are dealing with sensible people!
