Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the WEU is developing its operational capacities on the basis of internal optimization.
This means that, in accordance with the widening of its remit in 1992, it is on the way to becoming an instrument of efficient crisis management in Europe.
For this reason it is important that we continue to follow this process in this House, as we are doing today.
In my view, the WEU has two main tasks.
Firstly, to oversee the integration of new partners from Eastern Europe and, secondly, to strengthen the European pillar of the Euro-Atlantic alliance.
In this context, it is extremely important that relations between the WEU and both the EU and NATO are shaped with the necessary sensitivity.
This sensitivity is necessary firstly with a view to relations between Europe and America, but also in relation to various EU Member States, such as the United Kingdom, Denmark, Ireland, Austria and Sweden where, for a variety of reasons, the idea of the development of a military arm of the European Union is received with a certain amount of caution at the very least.
But, to address Mr Bonde from Denmark, we have absolutely no intention of influencing the Danish referendum on 28 May with our debate today.
Like every other country, since the Treaty of Amsterdam Denmark is entitled to opt out of any matters relating to military initiatives.
However, I do believe that we would be ill-advised not to take seriously the concerns of the citizens of the neutral countries.
I also have great sympathy for the position taken by the United States which - most recently on Corfu - advocated continued adherence to the NATO agreement to make independent collective resources available to the WEU only where this is required for urgent CFSP operations within the context of a specific crisis.
I am also resolutely against granting the WEU basic and permanent autonomous planning and intervention capacities within NATO, but - and here I direct my comments to the Europe of the Nations group - there can be no question of the WEU organizing European worldwide recognition à la Paris alongside NATO and without transatlantic agreement.
Its future role will be limited to dealing with crises like the current situation in the Balkans with a CFSP restricted to the performance of joint operational, humanitarian and peace-keeping WEU initiatives.
