Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a common market, common political institutions and a common currency which we are seeking to set in motion today, are all the results of a European accord.
They should lead to the people within the European Union growing closer together and combining their energies.
Yet the foundations upon which the States in the European Union have been building their Community for almost a half century, and the soil in which it will thrive derive from something which has linked the peoples on this continent for several thousand years: their common culture.
The Community European City of Culture initiative is based on this thinking.
It takes the very thing that could persuade Europeans to consider seeking a political accord in the first place, and uses it to strengthen this accord.
From time immemorial, European cities have been centres of culture.
Art, music, literature, dance, theatre, film, architecture in the past and now thrive best where people meet and are culturally active.
The "European City of Culture' programme should awaken new interest amongst the citizens of the Union for the cultural heritage in our cities, and focus their eyes more keenly on their beauty.
However, in the quest to become European City of Culture there is no place for cities that are inwardlooking.
Cities only have a chance of gaining this distinction by placing their own culture in a European context.
Where are the city's European influences, and in what way has it influenced Europe?
It is the task of Europe's cities to illustrate this by means of cultural events.
And, in terms of the initiative we are to adopt today, this will be all the more successful the more cities cooperate with other European cities on their projects and involve creative artists from other cities in their campaigns.
All Member States of the European Union basically agree that, in order to maintain the cultural diversity of Europe, it is imperative to preserve the cultural sovereignty of the Member States.
Yet, in terms of the European City of Culture, it is a question of being aware of the riches generated by this diversity whilst keeping in view its common roots.
The great opportunity of this initiative is that it can reach all citizens of the Union, for everyone can be culturally creative and take pleasure from culture.
Precisely because culture has such a strongly integrating effect, we in the European Parliament would re-emphasize our call as a legitimate democratic body to participate in the decision on the European City of Culture from the year 2002 and to make available ECU 2 million as an annual contribution to finance the initiative.
Finally, I offer my warmest congratulations to the rapporteur for producing a sound report.
