Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is in the interests of the farmers and the consumers of the European Union to study critically the use of gene technology and to consider both the advantages and the risks.
The use of gene technology cannot be excluded out of hand, but we need clear rules and a clear administration.
It is a concern of all farmers that the confidence of the consumers is fostered and that can only be ensured, through the greatest possible transparency and unambiguous marking of food and animal feedstuffs which are produced by means of gene technological methods.
It would be wrong to negate these new developments, since in many parts of the world they are already being used professionally.
In my view it is nevertheless necessary to orientate the statutory framework conditions to the greatest possible extent to the needs of the consumers and the farmers.
An optimal framework of control must be created in order to make possible a biotechnological sphere which is aware of its responsibilities.
In other words, we need a statutory framework which is efficient, quick and transparent and at the same time meets the requirements of the most comprehensive clarification possible of all safety questions.
For me the essential element in this context is the situation and management of imports from third countries.
I therefore demand that this is dealt with immediately.
A step by step procedure in the release of gene technology modified organisms is a necessary condition and we must not allow a general go-ahead to small and large-scale open experiments.
Each case must be tested separately, in the same way that our decisions here must be made.
At any rate there must be the greatest possible degree of safety and all questions about any procedural step must be clarified before a further stage in the development can take place.
I am against the general shortening of the testing periods.
I would like once more to emphasise how extremely important it is to ensure that when gene technologically modified organisms are used, neither the health of the people nor the environment is impaired.
