Mr President, since the start of the 1980s we have known about the damaging effects of overfishing in the seas of the EU.
The multiannual programmes, the MGPs, which are before us today, were introduced as a counter-measure; for instance, this year there is MGP IV, the fourth generation.
The absence of uniform assessment criteria is ridiculous.
Is a brake being deliberately put on progress towards uniformity, or why is it that we cannot get results which suit the whole of Europe, based on either tonnage or engine power?
This problem should have been sorted out a long time ago.
There are also gaps in the register of Community fishing vessels, which reduce its effectiveness.
This issue really should be resolved as well.
So a greater will to implement the directives is necessary.
National interests must not take precedence over higher-level European fisheries policy.
In any case failure to achieve the goals will unavoidably result in destroying many fisheries businesses on land, once fish stocks have degenerated too far, if not before that.
We should not let ourselves be deceived about the shortcomings of other countries in this area just because total capacity has been balanced out by particularly conscientious countries.
We cannot allow the countries which comply to become resigned as a result.
Their achievement must be a spur to the stragglers, otherwise there will be no progress in future.
It seems that there are not enough incentives to achieve the goals set.
The overhang from the previous MGPs is scarcely motivating.
It must be compulsory to keep within the limits, even if at the moment there are no effective sanctions along the lines I have described to ensure that it is done.
A quota reduction such as the rapporteur has suggested could also be effective.
But - and let me emphasize this again - it is more important to increase the awareness of the Member States.
Because they, the Member States, are responsible.
I would like to take this opportunity to thank you, Mrs Bonino, and DG XIV for the important discussion this week about Agenda 2000 and the subsequent legislative proposals on fisheries.
It was a good discussion, and I look forward to working together more.
