Mr President, first of all I should like to thank Mr Schmid very sincerely for an excellent report.
We should not be surprised; he does after all come from Bavaria, and all sorts of good things come from Bavaria.
This report yet again illustrates in a particular sector the extent of the problems caused by internationally organized crime.
The latter has a decisive advantage.
At a time when there is really an explosion of knowledge, when new technologies appear virtually every day, there are still governments which always arrive on the scene too late, like Dad's Army.
They clamp down only long after the matter has been resolved.
They shut the stable door only after the horse has been stolen.
That is the real problem, and it is good to highlight it in an area which directly affects our citizens, namely credit cards.
We have a completely new dimension today, with a world-wide struggle against internationally organized crime which is obstructed by political conditions.
Before the Second World War there were perhaps 20 countries in the world that were of any great significance.
Today we have 190 in the UN alone.
Many of us - I know because I used to be on the Committee on Development and Cooperation - do not even know their names.
These countries are increasingly and deliberately being targeted and bought up by international crime and certain dangerous sects, so that a new situation is emerging in international relations as a whole.
In addition, we are also dealing with the problem of major international speculative capitalism.
According to a report from the World Bank, these groups have at their disposal nowadays a sum of between 800 billion and 1 trillion dollars.
If you believe the news, we shall shortly experience another great international crisis like the one in 1992.
That is why we have to proceed on the widest front.
Today it is a question of creating security in the area of credit cards.
But we should not stop there; we should go further, because there are even greater dangers in store.
We face a major international struggle against international forces which are criminally organized and which respect no laws, because they are always quicker than those who are law-abiding.
I would like to thank Mr Schmid for pointing this out.
(Applause)
