Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank Mr Garriga Polledo sincerely for his report on the Court of Auditors' Special Report on the audit of certain aspects of German reunification measures in 1990 and 1991.
There is no need for me to emphasize how difficult and complex German reunification was in its entirety.
I am sure that there is no need either for me to emphasize that reunification was the only correct decision in this historically unique situation.
We had to integrate the new federal German Länder into Community law without a transitional period.
As far as the common agricultural policy in particular was concerned, the process was far from straightforward, as you can imagine.
I am grateful to Mr Garriga Polledo for his explicit recognition of this fact in his report.
In all, three measures were adopted for the integration of the former GDR: firstly, funding of the programme for the slaughter of cattle which were infected with enzootic bovine leucosis; secondly, the introduction of a regulation on the disposal of the meat through special export refunds, since this meat is quite suitable for human consumption; and thirdly, compensatory payment for the slaughter of animals to comply with the milk quota.
These measures fully accorded with Parliament's resolution on reunification in April 1990.
In its report, the Court of Auditors puts forward the view that there was a cumulation of subsidies and irregularities in the application of the programmes because the measures overlapped.
It also finds fault with the fact that there was no qualitative differentiation in the special export refunds.
However, it has to be borne in mind in this respect that the stock of East German cattle was simply too big for it to have been possible to comply with the milk quota regulation from the outset.
The stock was also partly affected by bovine leucosis.
The Commission had to get to grips with the difficult situation quickly, and implemented the three measures which I have mentioned.
Different assistance conditions applied in each case for the measures in question.
As a result, the number of animals affected was clearly not always the same, and similarly the number of those receiving assistance was not the same.
The fact that all three measures benefited some animals does not constitute a contravention of the provisions of Community law.
That is why, in the Commission's view, the Court of Auditors is totally unjustified in its conclusion that there was an inadmissible cumulation of subsidies.
As far as the irregularities are concerned - this also applies to point 5 of the draft resolution - the Commission has provided for a financial correction for Germany in the sum of DM 6.9 million after considering all the available data.
The Commission is currently in the process of collecting this amount from the German government and in December 1997 it deducted half of the amount - to be specific, DM 3.4 million - from payments for the eradication plan for 1996.
The other half will be deducted in the same way in the second half of 1998 from payments for the eradication plan for 1997.
As regards the failure to differentiate qualitatively in the export refunds, the Commission points out that healthy and normal commercial quality is the only available criterion for export refunds, so that there was no case for any more detailed differentiation.
I am glad that the rapporteur largely supports most of the Commission's arguments, particularly in relation to the cumulation mentioned by the Court of Auditors, and that he has endorsed them.
In order to prevent delays in on-the-spot financial controls in the framework of the EBL eradication plans, the Commission immediately introduced special controls after learning of possible irregularities in this area.
Unfortunately, the Commission has at its disposal only limited resources for on-the-spot controls from programmes which are cofinanced.
However, it has set itself ambitious objectives in this area.
I should also like to add that systematic administrative controls are being constantly carried out, particularly by comparing technical reports from the Member States with the final financial reports.
In conclusion, I should like to offer the rapporteur my sincere thanks for his acknowledgement of the problems which the Commission had to overcome in this difficult situation in connection with the integration of the former GDR into the common agricultural policy.
