Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, as I listened to your speech I thought of the saying from my country: "Nimm dir nix vör, dann slei dir nix fehl' - in other words, if you never try your hand at anything, you'll never have any failures!
There has been an abundance of subjects for initiatives and events during your Presidency, as Mr David has said.
I would be happy to contradict Mr Provan on the matter of implementation, but the longest lunch was an implementation disaster!
Let us take the convention on arms exports.
I congratulate you on seizing the initiative, but the results are nothing to be proud of.
There was nevertheless an agreement on annual meetings and we can only hope that there we will be able to make appropriate improvements and arrive at binding multilateral regulations.
My impression is that there has been a great deal of fuss about speeding up procedures, but at the expense of political substance.
The Presidency also carries some of the responsibility for the state of the Union and cannot just settle for its skills of packaging and word-spinning.
The central problem is simply this: if we want to offer ordinary people something, we have to offer them politics which affect their interests.
We have to show them that European politics satisfy their interests better, and geographical lists do not help them.
Geographical lists of who is who in Europe will not feed the unemployed, or create jobs, and they will not open up any new prospects either.
The British Presidency, as your speech made clear, has no clear project, which of course also means that there is no failure to be recorded.
In employment policy, there has been no clean break with the failed neoliberal policy model, which Mr Provan - I can contradict you on this point - has offered here once again.
Deregulation, wage reductions, are supposed to create more jobs and stimulate growth at some point and in some miraculous way.
You yourself no longer believe any of this!
Luxembourg saw a fall from grace when employment policy was largely confined to labour market policy.
France and Italy were left out in the cold.
The creation of new jobs by reductions in working hours, a new economic policy, or tax restructuring by means of eco-taxes, none of these is on the agenda.
There is clearly the danger that some Member States will revert to the Essen procedure, under the national action plans which have now been submitted.
This is a matter in which the Commission, in my view, Mr Santer, has an obvious responsibility: in its evaluation it should spell this out clearly and also demand improvements so that we really do arrive at a binding procedure, and so that the objectives do not just appear on paper but are implemented and supported with measures and not just with philosophical reflections.
Nor do we need measures which are already being implemented in any case, or which other bodies, such as local authorities, are supposed to implement.
At the very least, we need an energetic response to youth unemployment, and we are not getting this in the present state of affairs.
We are taking very seriously the "no' which the Commission's President has formulated in this case; the misuse of the principle of subsidiarity for the purpose of re-nationalisation fundamentally serves the interests of the right-wing and ultimately its unsavoury representatives.
We must join forces against this.
