Madam President, the prime role of the economy is to serve the people.
That is why I think it so important that we are debating the Multilateral Agreement on Investments today.
Nevertheless, the Kreissl-Dörfler report contains several statements reminiscent of the campaign being run by various interest groups for some time now to use the MAI to stir up people's fears about globalization.
I am being quite open about this criticism, Mr Kreissl-Dörfler, because you know that I rate your work very highly and want to carry on being honest with you.
Of course as a parliament we find it hard to accept that the negotiations have to a very great extent been kept secret from the public and from parliaments, as the report notes.
However, this criticism should be levelled at the Council, not the OECD, as there is a meeting of the Council's ad hoc working party on this very subject today.
Your report includes a call for a socially and ecologically balanced economic policy, and the other side of the House - I see Mrs Castellina is here as well - takes this to mean that the MAI would circumvent existing environmental and social standards.
The Austrian Ministry of Economic Affairs said in its opinion that the MAI does not impinge on a country's right to have its own environmental and employment protection standards, as long as foreign investors are not subject to stricter requirements than domestic companies.
It envisages outlawing social and environmental dumping, which means a ban on lowering environmental and employment standards as a means of attracting foreign investment.
Nor will the MAI lead to any limitation of EU law.
A proviso to this effect is included.
The arrangements for intellectual property are such that the MAI cannot affect TRIPS.
Furthermore, the OECD agreement is already subject to a democratic ratification process.
If we really want people to benefit from the economy, we cannot cram an investment agreement with conditions that only an army of lawyers can make sense of.
After all, it would also hit small and medium-sized enterprises, which do not have huge internal organizations.
Of course we also want the Council to keep the Parliament promptly informed about the progress of negotiations.
