Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in order to achieve the free movement of services for everyone who wants to make use of this right, it is necessary for there to be clear, unmistakable and reliable Community rules.
The second banking directive made an attempt at this but, as has been shown in practice, this objective has not been achieved.
To this extent recognition should certainly be given to the fact that, with this communication, the Commission has attempted to reduce uncertainties in the interpretation of various terms.
However - and here I agree with those who have spoken before me, Mr Rothley and Mr Wijsenbeek - the chosen route of a communication may be regarded as a suitable instrument only if two conditions are fulfilled.
The communication cannot and must not undermine or circumvent the democratic legislative process - clearly the codecision procedure in this case - in which the Council and the Parliament are legislators with equal rights, and it must in addition be subject to the express proviso of any further judgement by the European Court of Justice.
Given these pre-conditions, I nonetheless consider the Commission's communication to be a practically focused measure which may be extremely helpful.
With the imminent start of monetary union, all the experts anticipate that there will be a significant increase in cross-border services in the banking sector, so we need clarity quickly.
In my view, the main merit is that the communication gives a systematic presentation of the extensive judgements which have already been given by the ECJ in the area of the free movement of services and the general interest clause in the second banking directive.
It thus mainly serves the cause of greater transparency and greater information.
I should like to deal with one concrete point, the question of the electronic counter.
I believe that in this case we must await developments with great care, and any premature commitment to the application of the right of settlement or the right of service provision must be left up to further technological development.
In conclusion I should like to inform you that the Group of the European People's Party will support the rapporteur's report in its entirety.
Taken as a whole, the communication will be of use to banks and also consumers.
