Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, once again this House has occasion to express its concerns about human rights and freedom of speech in Turkey.
We do so without any exaggerated view of our own capabilities and without belittling our own problems, even within the European Union.
Nevertheless, the cowardly attack on Mr Birdal, the president of the Turkish Association of Human Rights, and the legal actions taken against members of the former Refah Party, in connection with political views which had been expressed, are quite dreadful events.
Democratic states are convinced that banning political parties hardly constitutes a solution.
It is certainly no solution to the internal arguments which have been waged in Turkey between those holding different political views, such as Erbakan's party or the successor Fazilet Partisi (Virtue Party).
Democratic states are quite rightly not very keen on banning political parties, for such bans soon get a reputation for being themselves undemocratic and for stifling political activity and freedom of speech.
Turkey itself is undergoing the process of transition to a normal society, which is something the laical constitution of Kemal Atatürk cannot live up to, for in my mind this constitution does not allow sufficient scope for religious freedom and for the religious activities of its citizens.
Neither a ban on political parties nor the threat of imprisonment can prohibit this process of transition, and this is a problem which Turkish society and the Turkish political parties themselves will have to solve.
Respect for human rights has certainly improved in a number of areas in recent years.
This is a fact which we should not conceal.
Nevertheless, it is shocking that attacks on journalists and human rights activists are not prosecuted with the necessary vigour.
Prime Minister Yilmaz has promised that firm action will be taken to find those responsible for the cowardly attack on Mr Birdal.
We can only hope that this will be the case.
The same applies to Mr Erdogan, the mayor of Istanbul, who was given a 10 month prison sentence for expressing his political views.
In our opinion, this state of affairs cannot continue indefinitely.
We are therefore calling on the Turkish government and Parliament at long last to grant its people freedom of speech and freedom of conscience.
