Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the only response politics can have to the political upheavals in Europe, the greater transparency that the euro will create, the expansion of the EU, greater cultural diversity, increased mobility and the sensitive treatment of minorities is to boost education and mobility throughout Europe.
What is needed is intercultural learning and extracurricular education accompanied by opportunities for service and study abroad for longer periods.
This includes greater opportunities for youth exchanges than we have at present and strengthening the necessary infrastructure.
Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud that it was this House that took the initiative.
It was not the Council and it was not the Commission.
Rather it is they who have latched on to this House's initiative which Alexander Lange and I introduced here five years ago.
I am very proud that we were able to bring the Council and Commission on board at that time.
Of course, the right conditions for this have still not been created, even now.
I support everything that Nicole Fontaine has said, but I should like to mention one point in particular.
We need a specific statute for this important service.
The service will be unacceptable for most people unless it guarantees, in a binding manner, a residence permit, work permit, social security entitlement, tax exemption arrangements and the continuance of any national allowances and benefits.
If it does not, we cannot expect many young people to become involved in this service.
Ladies and gentlemen, a certificate must be issued on completion of the voluntary service for young people.
However, society also has to get to a stage where this voluntary service to the community is rewarded by giving participants preference when taking on employees and not looking at how quickly a person has done something, how quickly a person has studied, but whether a person has also rendered a service to the community.
We can take a leaf out of the USA's book: there anyone who has carried out voluntary service is always preferred over a person who has not.
Let us therefore follow that example and this can become a good achievement.
