Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we decide to include Poland and the Slovak Republic in the Youth and Training Programme of the European Union, this is an important step.
But this step is also a logical result if we want to go further down the road which we took with the decision to enlarge the European Union eastwards.
Why?
A politically stable and peaceful Europe is the goal we have in our sights when we open our Community to the states of the former Eastern Bloc.
We hope to achieve this goal by helping the future Member States strengthen their democratic structures and reinforce their economic power.
But how can we achieve this?
Only by learning from each other; by exchanging experiences, knowledge, ideas and concepts; and by trusting each other.
The more citizens of the Union are involved in this process of growing together, the more successful it will be.
The younger the people are who take part in this process, the more deeply a feeling of belonging together can take root in their hearts, and the less susceptible the future Community will be to breaking up.
The Leonardo, Socrates, and Youth for Europe programmes seek to prepare the ground for such a development.
They help people to cross linguistic barriers, and encourage the transfer of training and the exchange of students, employees and young people in Europe.
They work towards helping young people in existing and future Member States learn to conceive democratic values as worthy of protection.
The Slovak Republic is not a member of the circle of countries which will initiate the eastwards expansion by their entry.
The judgement that democratic culture in that country must make further progress has led to the postponement of its entry into the Community.
The estimation, however, that the population of the Slovak Republic is open to further democratic development of its political system has led to our desire to see the participation of that people in our programmes.
In July last year, the European Parliament had already decided to include the Czech Republic, Hungary and Romania in the programmes.
The Slovak Republic and Poland had to wait, since we first had to see whether we got additional Socrates resources.
We have achieved this and so I am pleased today that after Hungary, the Czech Republic and Romania, the Slovak Republic and Poland will come into our programmes.
Thank you, Mrs Leperre-Verrier, for your fine contribution.
