Mr President, it would probably not come as a surprise to you if I wanted to begin, like Mr Schulz, by saying that the Group of the European People's Party will vote in favour of this report, though probably not because Bernd Posselt is a hardline right-winger, but because he has prepared a report which tells it like it is - exactly as Mr Schulz has described very accurately - and which demonstrates the necessities which exist in this area.
If we are talking about realities here, permit me to begin with a minor factual correction or small remark.
The term 'eastward enlargement' is used again and again in this House.
As an Austrian, this always surprises me, when I consider that two of the applicant states have their capitals located a good distance west of Vienna.
The enlargement we are considering is an enlargement into central Europe.
If we were going to expand into Belarus and the Ukraine I would be happy to talk about eastward enlargement.
One aspect of this report which seems tremendously important to me is the fact that it reveals that the Community, or European Union, is changing more and more from an economic community into a political and thus a security community.
It reveals the security dimension, namely the security dimension which we must extend to the applicant states.
I think this is tremendously important, because the external - but also internal - image which the Union conveys again and again is, unfortunately, purely economic.
That cannot be correct.
Those states which wish to enter the EU expect certain solutions, particularly in such areas as security.
Each of these states has its own problems with ethnic groups or minorities, just as each Member State of the European Union does, without exception.
I believe this is particularly important if we are referring to the causes of this problem and trying to suggest solutions, as for example in paragraph 4, as regards ourselves - that is, the fact that the field of justice and home affairs must be integrated in the next institutional reform, which must take place before enlargement.
There is a further point in this report which I would like to emphasize because it seems particularly important to me as an Austrian.
Mr Posselt has already mentioned it: the need for a European border control force.
In Austria, we have experienced the consequences of exposure to such rapid change, to a very, very great extent.
We have had to make massive changes to our border control units in Austria over recent years.
Thank heavens our borders with Germany and Italy in the south were opened one or two days ago.
This is hopefully the last major step we have had to take for the next three or four years.
Then there will be further changes, as soon as the enlargement of the European Union has actually taken place.
I do not regard it as particularly practical for us to demand massive measures in the area of border security now from the applicant states, in whose infrastructure we shall have to make massive investments if they have great difficulty in actually implementing them.
I believe that is also one of the key points of the report.
