Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as we are talking about transit today, we are, of course, also going to be talking about the fact that for 40 years in Europe we have supported a common market and that we have therefore always promoted a society based on the principle of the division of labour.
Today we find ourselves in a position where two out of our four major routes through the Alps run through Switzerland and we cannot therefore accept the creation of an artificial barrier which would burden the other two routes, our friends in the Brenner - Mr Voggenhuber, you were quick to pick up on your cue there - with additional traffic.
The European Union has always supported the principle of the shortest route and that means that we need the appropriate transit routes through Switzerland.
In terms of the Alps in general, we have a set of very different rules.
In Austria 40 tonnes, but an eco-point system, in Switzerland a 28 tonne limit and bans on night driving.
That does not constitute the uniform policy which we, as the PPE, are calling for and expect from the Commission.
However, we also expect an alpine traffic policy to be based on a set of uniform rules applicable throughout Europe rather than the methods of highway robbery and the robber barons.
I have already mentioned the principle of the shortest route, which must has to be taken into account.
There is also the question of the environment.
No one can tell me that long diversions are better for the environment.
And no one can tell me that rail can be made more competitive by artificially making roads more expensive.
On Monday we had the Sarlis Report on the revitalization of the railways.
The railways also have to get into shape so that they can compete with the roads.
This will not happen simply by making lorries more expensive.
In this spirit, I call upon the Commission to continue its negotiations with Switzerland.
I hope that the matter will be brought to a close under this British Presidency.
