Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the activities of the Commission in the context of the SLIM programme started back in 1996 are extraordinarily welcome.
The report now before us represents a further step towards improvement and simplification of Community law, even if it is only a small step, considering the massive and urgent necessity to create simple regulations for the single market.
Of course I wish that the SLIM programme would be reflected very much more quickly and more clearly in solid results which everyone can see.
Then in addition a less important role is played by the series of projects subjected to the SLIM procedure.
I wish this programme would lead to perceptible relief for the medium, small and very small companies, but also for the big ones, thus strengthening their ability to compete and bringing more jobs.
The monitoring of Intrastat and the sphere of value added tax are really worthwhile objects in this respect.
I wish the SLIM programme to be perceived as a real blessing and that it would inspire the Member States to thin out their laws in the same way, voluntarily or even perhaps subject to deadlines.
Our laws must no longer be perceived to be the expression of blind legislative madness on the part of Brussels or national bureaucrats.
The legislature must not overstep a mark still recognizedd as reasonable with its frequently compulsorily burdensome effects on the citizens and companies.
These wishes and demands can of course be addressed only to the Commission.
The legislators, Council and European Parliament were and are also asked.
We, the European Parliament must ask ourselves self-critically: What is our contribution to the achievement of the goal which has been set?
When I measures our resolution which we have put to the vote, with the same criteria of clarity, legibility, conciseness and focus then I am disappointed.
This is by no means a reproach for the rapporteur, absolutely not at all.
It is primarily the result of our own internal parliamentary voting procedures, at the end of which frequently many unconnected points are lined up together.
This statement applies quite generally.
Independent of this I find it hard to see what sense, for example, points 10 and 11 make in this resolution.
I of course unreservedly support the demand for a European form of company.
These points 10 and 11 really have very little to do in my opinion with the aims of the SLIM programme to improve and simplify the existing legal arrangements.
If Parliament is trying to implement the SLIM programme then I cannot quite work out why it wants to be included in point 15 and 16 even during the individual monitoring procedures of the Commission in the context of SLIM.
As co-legislator it should concentrate on cooperating in the conclusions and not drag out the process in its initial stages.
SLIM is a worthwhile undertaking.
I thank the rapporteur, the Commission and in particular Commissioner Monti for his perseverance and I am pleased that the current Council Presidency accords the SLIM programme a particularly prominent significance.
