Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislative procedure hitherto has shown that the basic objective of the proposal for the directive is widely approved by all those involved.
The supervisory authorities of the European Union are to be able to determine more effectively in future the actual degree of solvency possessed by insurance undertakings belonging to an insurance group.
This is a question of guaranteeing consumers - the insured parties - the highest possible level of protection.
They are to be protected in the event of the insolvency of their insurance company.
There is some dispute as to which precautions are necessary and appropriate in order to achieve this aim.
The Council's common position and the European Parliament's Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights take clearly differing positions on some important points, aimed at limiting the financial burden to an appropriate amount.
In particular, the European Parliament welcomes the fact that the Council has adopted most of the amendments which aided clarification.
We are also particularly pleased that the Council has at least come closer in its common position to Parliament's call for all the aspects of solvency that apply to the supervision of individual insurance undertakings to be applied to the supervision of group undertakings too.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has said that it does not agree with the common position where this provides that the financing of insurance participations for insurance holding companies is now to be dealt with through other aspects of the provisions governing the solvency of individual insurance undertakings as well.
In practice, these are essentially subordinated loans and dividend rights capital, but not other financial instruments, such as loans, convertible loans and other outside funds.
This reduction of financing approaches at any rate seems inappropriate in holding companies.
Their shareholders are not insurance undertakings.
The target group of the increased protection is the insured parties and not the shareholders, who are not subject to individual supervision.
Amendment No 5, adopted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, is aimed at reducing this excessive protection to an appropriate level.
The scope of the group supervision provided for in this directive remains the main point of contention.
The common position now includes any participation of an insurance undertaking in other insurance or reinsurance undertakings, whereas at first reading, the Parliament provided for its application only above a threshold of 20 % and where the influence was dominant.
This represents an increase against the first reading and the Commission proposal.
If the directive were adopted in the present version, it would have clearly negative effects on the capital structure in Europe and the European insurance industry.
The existing insurance groups would have to raise considerable funds on the money market to finance their increased own funds requirements.
Capital is expensive, and the insurance undertakings would try or would be forced to balance out the costs incurred either by increasing premiums or rationalisation measures.
Increases in premiums would be charged to the insured parties themselves, and the rationalisation measures would threaten jobs.
The directive would cause additional problems in raising capital for insurance undertakings such as mutual insurance organisations which do not have access to the money markets because of their legal form.
This problem may well be relevant in terms of competition.
There would be the danger that this would permanently undermine areas of insurance which have developed traditionally in individual Member States.
A compromise as regards the scope might be to modify the threshold values according to the respective regulatory areas.
This would fully meet the requirements of supervision in terms of transparency and transaction monitoring.
At the same time, however, Parliament's demands from the first reading would also be taken into account.
These provide for limiting additional solvency requirements resulting from belonging to a group to cases in which risk-enhancing influences between undertakings may actually be possible as well, particularly where a dominant influence is being exercised.
Amendments Nos 3 and 4 were tabled for this reason.
The main reason for not continuing to include minority participations is that the holding of such participations without a dominant influence does not provide any opportunity for unfavourable intra-group transactions.
They do not produce any risk factors.
However, risks may well result from supervision being carried out inadequately on the basis of the existing rules.
Another point in this context is that, unlike the European rules on the solvency of individual insurance undertakings, the directive and the common position only harmonise the supervisory intervention criteria and not the supervisory measures themselves, to say nothing of the various methods permitted for calculating adjusted solvency which are only said to be equal to each other anyway.
This may result in the supervisory authorities of a Member State demanding increased capital when a deficit is established in calculating adjusted solvency as provided for by the directive, whilst the supervisory authorities of another Member State demand at most a report.
This inevitably leads to distortions of competition, which are specifically to be avoided through the directive.
Finally, another objection is that the responsibility for assessing the presence of a dominant influence is to lie with the competent authorities.
