Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that we are today able to discuss the approval, by the Conciliation Committee of Council and Parliament, of a text in relation to the environment and sustainable development in the European Union, is thanks to the persistent efforts - persistent seems to be a much better word than sustained - of the rapporteur, Mrs Lone Dybkjær, and of the chairman of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, Kenneth Collins.
With this persistence and great wisdom they persuaded the Council to be open to Parliament's ideas and to accept the proposals on a far broader basis than we could have hoped at the beginning of the negotiations, and in particular at the beginning of the first reading.
On behalf of my group, I thank you very sincerely for this.
It is clear to all those involved with environmental issues that this programme can only be the beginning of sustainable development in the European Union.
For this reason I am particularly pleased that the objectives of this Fifth Action Programme already state that still more progressive priority objectives and measures will be necessary beyond the year 2000, so that the Community action does not lose its momentum and, of course, so that we can succeed in including the applicant countries in this environmental process.
I would need much more speaking time than I have, if I were to discuss all points on which there was agreement and which could contribute to an improvement in environmental legislation.
Therefore, I can only mention a few key points relating to some of these.
It is particularly important that environmental policy is included in agricultural policy, and I am very grateful to the Commission that this additional statement on the common agricultural policy has been included in the decision by the Conciliation Committee.
I am also very grateful to the Commission for stating that it will make proposals regarding ways in which environmental liability really could be legally regulated.
We talk about this regularly in the House and we will certainly publish a White Paper on it at some stage which we can discuss and which can take into account national differences, to such an extent that we can finally achieve a good pan-European directive on environmental liability.
I consider it very important that a system of green accounting should be introduced in the individual Member States so that we can carry out a form of environmental accounting - the German term is not very beautiful - once the individual Member States have reported back.
This is particularly important as, in precisely those places where we can integrate environmental protection very well, in operational processes and other processes, this integration of a system of green accounting into general accounting has many advantages and is excellent for transposing environmental provisions into national law.
Transposal is a very important catchword.
We must also have more effective monitoring, as Mrs Dybkjær has already said, and this will lead to us finally having better health protection; this was also established more firmly in the Conciliation Committee than ever before.
There is no time to go through everything.
I would like to conclude with one point.
Many of us concerned with globalization and international trade issues see how much more difficult it is if environmental and precautionary aspects are not dealt with adequately within the framework of the WTO.
This text also states that the Commission will continue to do its utmost in the negotiations which are supposed to be concluded the year after next, but which will at least be very advanced by then.
Once again, I thank everyone involved.
Even if it is a compromise, it is a compromise which brings us further forward on environmental issues.
