Madam President, the draft directive before us is an example of how standardized, trans-European rulings can antagonize the people and shake their confidence in the Union.
Open borders and an open market demand uniform consumer protection guidelines.
This also applies to the buyer's statutory right to protection from defects in acquired products, in short to a standardization of warranty law.
However, if a proposal for a directive is presented, as it is here, where the periods within which the seller is liable for defects in his product are quadrupled - as in the case of Austria, for example - this is hardly indicative of great tact and sensitivity.
There is little fine feeling too in the arrangement planned for allowing the consumer a free option in the first year of warranty between repair, price reduction, rescission of contract and replacement.
It seems reasonable to suppose that, in the majority of cases, the buyer will prefer to receive a new product rather than have the old one repaired, a solution which, we believe, is neither economically nor ecologically sensible.
And if one brings the proposed change in the burden of proof into the equation, i.e. the supposition that the fault was already present at the time of purchase, this overall arrangement represents an increased burden on the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular, who would in no way be in a balanced position in relation to the improved consumer protection brought about by this change.
It is precisely in today's difficult employment situation that this additional imposition is not acceptable and will in the long term reduce the number of consumers protected.
We therefore share the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, of waiting for the study into the impact of this directive to come out, which has been commissioned due to the contentious nature of the subject matter.
There is no reason to be overhasty in approaching this issue.
It would do the cause more harm than good.
