Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, after 9.00 p.m. in the evening, I am almost inclined to greet everybody individually.
I am speaking on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists and have no wish to conceal the fact that I am, of course, also a Member who comes from East Germany.
I still remember with gratitude the vote in this Parliament and the proposals by the Commission aimed at rectifying the problems neglected by the East German shipyards and in this respect I shall express myself in very moderate terms about the proposal.
I think the Commission's proposal is very good.
We live in an age when we must consider whether industrial policy can be ruled by means of subsidies alone.
Nevertheless, I have also made it known to my group that I - and subsequent speakers will no doubt go into this - have my difficulties with some of the amendments tabled by Parliament and the committee.
Basically it has to be said that productivity in the European shipyards has increased in recent years.
Of course it must also be pointed out that this was often due to numerous closures, lay-offs and reductions in capacity.
Unfortunately the OECD agreement was neither signed nor ratified, and I have the impression that some Member States are not angry about it at all.
In view of the crisis in Asia and the devaluation of the currencies there, the shipbuilding industry will come under increased pressure.
This has to be withstood and the Commission has submitted proposals which reduce the extent and amount of subsidies, albeit a moderate reduction.
To that extent, this is a reaction to the progress sought in productivity.
I have difficulties with some of the amendments tabled.
I am specifically concerned that in so-called Objective 1 regions, the local shipyards should not be disadvantaged in comparison with other industrial sectors in the Objective 1 regions.
We are strenuously pursuing this matter.
It is not an honour for any Objective 1 region to be labelled as underdeveloped, but more help and some regulations are still needed in order to extricate ourselves from this situation.
In this respect, I consider the proposal which has been submitted to be a good one.
All Members should examine critically the amendments tabled by the committees and other Members.
I nevertheless request that some consideration be given to the fact that our East German shipbuilding industry still has difficulties, and my colleague, García Arias, will certainly also bring up the subject of Spanish industry.
