Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it truly is wonderful that young people from the countries of central and eastern Europe can now take part in European exchange and training programmes even before their countries become full members.
I personally witnessed the huge expectations of and commitment to the programmes in the Czech Republic during recent talks with members of parliament and the government in Prague.
I really must stress here that educational exchanges with central and eastern European countries will not be a one-way street and exchanges will work in both directions.
Young people from Prague, Budapest and Warsaw are prevented by the division of Europe from taking advantage of training possibilities in London, Paris, Bologna and elsewhere, while young people from the EU are deterred from spending a year in Poland, Romania or the Czech Republic.
This should become a matter of course and we should motivate young people to do it.
I hope that even more study courses will be set up which offer this as an integral part of the course.
I would also like to stress that the inclusion of these countries in the training programme is, first and foremost, an important component in supporting the enlargement process.
Enlargement towards the east is not merely an economic process; it is a gigantic learning curve for us all.
It involves building trust and breaking down the prejudices which have failed to disappear now that the borders are open and which are, unfortunately, harboured by forces both here and in these countries which are basically opposed to European integration.
Nor should the significance of the transfer of know-how be underestimated.
Personal exchanges of experience in teaching, science, vocational training and teacher training are an excellent driving force during the difficult adjustment process on the path towards full membership and are usually more important than investing in material assets.
For the rest, they also help to prepare young people for the mobility needed on a larger European job market.
We must make sure as a matter of priority that participation in the programmes increases steadily over coming years.
There is another point which I would like to stress.
During our talks in Prague, it was suggested that representatives of the central and eastern European countries should be offered the opportunity to attend the EU training programme accompanying committees.
I would like expressly to support this move and to ask the Commission to support it, because personal cooperation in committees represents an important step towards integration and offers our partners in these countries an excellent opportunity to become acquainted with the complex EU administration and programme structures at a specialist level.
The financial resources available to candidate countries are limited.
As I have said, we must ensure that the numbers of people involved in exchanges increase still further over coming years.
More the pity that, now of all times, the Council of Finance Ministers has tabled a proposal to reduce the funds for Leonardo by two-thirds from ECU 140 million to ECU 40 million next year.
It is downright scandalous.
This is especially true given all the full-blown announcements at the Cardiff Summit as to how we want to pursue an active employment policy, focus on European qualifications, facilitate mobility on the European job market and push on with the integration of central and eastern European countries.
As we heard from the President-in-Office of the Council in this House just two days ago, all this is to become reality.
This reduction applies yet again to training policy to be exact, to vocational training more precisely, money is being refused to the weakest on the job market but not to industry-related media programmes.
Surely the public must get the impression that this is a dishonest policy.
I am outraged and ashamed when I think of the multitude of good, cross-border projects set up by companies, training institutes and technical colleges which will now have to be cancelled and of the dashed hopes of young people who, perhaps for the first time in their lives, might have been able to finish part of their vocational training in another country.
Given the imminent enlargement of the EU towards the East and the increase in the number of candidates, the question of funding for EU programmes is already becoming even more urgent.
Now there is a risk that de facto training projects and candidates from central and eastern European countries will have to compete with projects and candidates from the EU for even less funding.
It does not create a very good impression.
I therefore urge the Council to renounce this short-sighted and antisocial policy and to increase rather than reduce the funds.
This is also a piece of European credibility.
(Applause)
