Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, in principle I quite agree with the basic points you made.
But the Commissioner's words suggest a certain dissatisfaction that more stringent measures were not taken.
I would like to know what these measures or proposals were and why the Council did not take them.
I am in favour of stronger measures.
I was appalled at the difficulties that arose when it came to imposing the ban on flights.
What can Milosevic think of a Europe that finds it so difficult to take even such a minor measure?
In that respect, I endorse what the Commissioner said.
One thing I wish to make clear.
We must openly oppose all - and I mean all - the forces of nationalism, no matter how large, medium or small their responsibility for the current crisis.
This certainly applies first and foremost to the Yugoslav forces.
There is no doubt whatsoever that most of the blame lies at their door.
But it also applies to the KLA, which must realise that it too bears its share of responsibility and that its activities are certainly making it difficult for Europe to intervene.
The peaceloving forces, especially those around Rugova, must be supported.
Unfortunately, as I have said on several occasions, they were not supported at the right time.
Secondly, the situation is Macedonia is very precarious.
We are well aware that Kosovar independence or a greater Albania would create serious internal difficulties for this country.
But at the same time we must ensure that the policy Macedonia is adopting in principle, namely respect for the Albanian minority, is pursued consistently and, where possible, developed further.
Thirdly, Madam President, let me add a small footnote in regard to your approach to Albania.
As you indicated, Berisha is exploiting the situation in Kosovo to the hilt in order to destabilise the situation in Albania too.
Of course I too believe that Fatos Nano and his government must observe the rule of law in their pursuit of accusations, crimes, and so forth, and must not fan the flames.
But it must be made clear who is chiefly to blame for the current conditions.
In the final analysis, the pursuit of full independence would create the same difficulties and problems that arose in Bosnia.
This could further boost the growing power of the nationalist forces as reflected in the elections.
My final point concerns the refugee question.
Here we must offer our full support and oppose any tendency in Europe to say that because we did much for Bosnia, we cannot do as much for Kosovo.
We must do everything in our power to help the Kosovar refugees.
