Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Commissioner, I think I can very largely associate myself with the very clear words of the rapporteur.
The ALTENER programme is the only programme we have in the European Union that is available exclusively for the assistance of renewable energy sources.
By the year 2010, the proportion of total energy consumption to be contributed by renewable energy sources is to double, according to the European Commission's proposal in its White Paper on renewable energies.
They know that in calling for this, they are knocking at an open door as far as the European Parliament is concerned because, in the Mombaur initiative report, in my report on the Green Paper, we called for a significant build-up - at least 15 % - in renewable energy sources because of our profound conviction that, from the viewpoint of climate policy, from the viewpoint of environmental policy, from the viewpoint of import dependence, with regard to rural areas, and with regard to additional jobs, the European Union needs to do a great deal more in this respect.
I also know that it is not only - perhaps not at all, when it comes down to it - a question of European assistance programmes which will determine whether the desired goal is reached.
Political decisions which lead to genuinely fair competition conditions through fair access to the grid, and which lead to the internalization of the costs of different ways of generating energy through European energy taxes, are fundamental preconditions.
A political strategy which leads to a restructuring of taxes in energy policy needs to pervade almost all Community policies, and needs to be implemented through coordination between the Member States and the European Union.
Nonetheless, facilitating the use of new technologies for energy generation from renewable energies through financial incentives and through concrete assistance will be of exceptional significance if genuine market penetration is to be achieved.
The Commission has proposed a breakthrough campaign in its White Paper.
One million photovoltaic roofs and house fronts, 10 000 megawatts from wind, 10 000 megawatts from biomass.
ECU 4 billion of public funds are required for this.
I know that a good deal needs to come from the Member States as well.
But I also know that the 22 million envisaged for two years here is at best a drop in the ocean, and perhaps not even that.
That is why it has to be quite clear that there has to be some room for manoeuvre over the budget at least for next year, and that we can top it up.
Secondly - and you, Mr Commissioner, can be sure that you will hear from us when the time comes to consider the successor to ALTENER II in the energy framework programme.
We expect that there will be a significant increase there as well.
Thirdly, and on this point I give my full support to the rapporteur, it is absolutely necessary that the Council really does reach a decision on 11 May so that measures can begin during the current year.
