Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I comment on Mrs D端hrkop-D端hrkop's excellent report, I must make a short additional remark on this afternoon's debate on legal bases, as this seems relevant to me and was not mentioned.
The crucial point is not whether a judgement has to be complied with.
That goes without saying.
The crucial point is how we can get the Council to agree to policies that Parliament wishes to initiate.
Unfortunately, we have not received any institutional reply to this question so far.
As long as the Council refuses to make any concessions on this point, we will have to use the means available to us as the Budgetary Authority and bring pressure to bear.
At the last meeting of the Committee on Budgets, all the groups were in agreement that if the Council dug its heels in, we should make full use of the margins available to us in categories 3 and 4 of the 1999 budget.
The Council has to realize that we know perfectly well how to get round its blocking tactics.
After all, we are talking about at least ECU 1.3 billion.
The Council can be quite sure that we are in a position to spend this money well.
It will have to come clean on this in the trialogue.
Now let me turn to the D端hrkop report, which - if we leave the specific estimates to one side for the time being - refers to three important institutional disputes that need to be resolved in the context of the next Interinstitutional Agreement.
In addition to the problem of the legal basis, which I have already mentioned, it also refers to the classification of expenditure and also sounds a warning note about using the creation of a reserve to achieve increased flexibility.
To this extent the D端hrkop report is an important stage on the difficult road to interinstitutional cooperation.
My group supports the efforts of the rapporteur and of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development to pay more attention to evaluating programmes.
This also applies, of course, to sustainable regional agriculture programmes.
However, we wish to stress that everything possible must be done to guarantee that these particular programmes, which call for a high level of commitment by Member States, are made relevant to our citizens.
With regard to creating an insurance fund to compensate for damage suffered as a result of animal diseases, I would like to emphasize that for me the key motive is to reduce the burden on the budget.
Checks could accordingly be carried out so as to guarantee the self-insurance principle.
I cannot, therefore, agree to the creation of a budget line at present.
Finally, I have another point about expenditure under the common foreign and security policy.
We entered into the ad hoc procedures under the Amsterdam Treaty because it seemed important to us to preserve the non-compulsory nature of this expenditure.
Nevertheless, these procedures assume a minimum of responsibility on both sides, which I believe the Council has not fulfilled.
It is particularly regrettable that neither the Council nor the Commission has so far complied with Parliament's wish to establish a European Civil Peace Corps.
