Mr President, I hope you will not mistake me for Mr Falconer if I now say something about the roll call.
But first let me just point out that Mr Avgerinos is not present.
It is he who was entrusted with the work of reviewing matters of topical and urgent debate.
I myself am always present for the urgencies, but I rarely see Mr Avgerinos.
So it comes as no surprise to me that some of the ideas contained in his proposals are rather confusing.
Now to the urgencies.
When one looks at what is going on in China, when one hears what previous speakers have said about the alleged trade in human organs, when one reads the reports presented by various organizations, such as China Watch and the Fresenius company, then it is like being in some kind of horror film.
Death sentences are being carried out to order and the condemned persons are being executed in such a way that certain organs remain unaffected, so that they can be turned into cash.
The number of death sentences, the executions and the methods used are treated as state secrets.
The new code of criminal procedure has been drawn up so that court procedures can be handled in such a way that the legal defence of the accused is impossible and something so basic as the presence of observers at court trials is totally out of the question.
The European Parliament has always pleaded for people sentenced to death, and has always spoken out against the death penalty.
Naturally we cannot remain silent about the gruesome consequences of these death-penalty decisions.
We have to adopt a clear position here.
I therefore believe that it is only natural for us to make minimum demands, for example that practices of this kind should be stopped.
The United Nations which, so we are told, this year at long last is to investigate the slave trade - an action which I believe has been inspired by a resolution from this Parliament - should also set up an international committee of inquiry, and the Council and the Commission should do everything in their power at least to put a stop to the activities of those European firms involved.
This is an issue which should certainly be addressed by our delegation during its forthcoming visit to China.
