Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, freedom of movement - and here we share the same opinion - is the focal point of the Treaty on European Union.
Here we created many legal conditions to allow this to take place.
We continue to have many problems in achieving freedom of movement, not only of workers.
I now welcome the action plan presented by the Commission to improve freedom of movement for workers at least.
I welcome it because the Commission presented very specific proposals here.
In this context, I also welcome Mrs Weiler's supplementary proposals because she believes, quite positively, that bureaucracy should be eliminated, social rights must not fall by the wayside, citizens should be informed, mutual recognition of training is necessary, and a social insurance card should be introduced, perhaps to prevent, too, the abuse of a directive on posted workers.
There are many positive points on which we are in agreement.
However, you are now being too ambitious, Mrs Weiler.
In the context of immigration and residence of third-country nationals, you have demanded the same rights for third-country nationals as for citizens of the Union.
Looking at it systematically, we can only approve it if Union-wide rules have been drawn up in advance on the migration, admission and residence of workers in the European Union, which apply to all Member States.
You are doing things the wrong way round.
Your second request is the immediate abolition of visa requirements.
The Commission has now announced that it is a very ambitious goal to consider this.
You want to achieve this immediately, without any pre-conditions.
This is regarded as entirely realistic by others who think that we should introduce a transitional period, wait five years and then the Council decision should be passed.
We must not forget that the third countries must also ensure that they have sufficient border security to prevent problems in terms of people crossing the borders into the Union, and as a result within the Union.
Thirdly, you insist that the right of residence be extended to all relatives, independently of nationality, and also to all partners.
In this you are clearly taking the same line as Mr Lehne.
In doing so, you are opening the door to abuse.
I believe you have taken on too much.
You have lost all sense of what is feasible.
I agree with certain passages in the report and would support it if Mrs Weiler would support our demands that Community rules be established concerning migration, residence and asylum, so that we may then realize completely the principle of freedom of movement, including for third-country nationals.
I agree with some of your proposals, but there are some important points with which I do not agree.
Thank you.
