Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, 70 % of the areas dealt with in the European Union will be subject to codecision by the European Parliament following ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty, which should be concluded by the end of 1998.
Up to now, this figure was only approximately 35 %.
Therefore, in a few months, we will become a true legislator in additional areas of European integration.
We have not only been granted greater powers, we also have the burden of greater responsibility for European legislation which is close to the people, comprehensible and to which all individuals can relate.
The amendment of Article 189b, now Article 253 of the EC Treaty, offers the European Parliament a new opportunity to be involved in a greatly changed legislative procedure, the main points of which are as follows.
Firstly, the legislative procedure will take up less time.
The third reading, for example, will no longer exist, and other simplifications are possible.
Secondly, those involved in the procedure, the Commission, Parliament and the Council, must prepare the texts more carefully and also formally, as the first reading may now end the procedure and at this stage a regulation can become law.
Thirdly, the European Parliament may exert its influence at an early stage in the procedure.
For this reason, even at first reading we require a structured dialogue between the institutions involved, not a round table of people who are potentially interested but not really competent.
Fourthly, Parliament must consider and maintain carefully its parliamentary and political influence on the public.
This should lead Parliament to consider at which reading, first or second, it considers itself to have greater influence.
We must therefore adapt our Rules of Procedure fundamentally and we must continue to use to the utmost the powers accorded to us by the Treaty and to fully utilize our responsibilities.
Together with the Council and the Commission, we must establish a clear interinstitutional framework which reflects the new balance of power in the interinstitutional structure of the European Union and makes it practicable.
Finally, we must give our voters an excellent form of legislation which is close to the people, of a quality which shows them that not everything in Europe is complicated.
On behalf of the PPE, I would like to express to the rapporteur, Mr Manzella, our thanks and recognition for the care, competence and political perspective with which, in his excellent report, he found solutions for almost every issue.
