Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report on the situation of frontier workers is one of a series of reports which deal with the problems of people who use or want to use one of the most important basic freedoms in the European Union.
The rapporteur has devoted a good deal of work to drawing up the report in order to demonstrate the diverse problems of workers in frontier regions.
Although in theory and in practice the internal European frontiers are intended to present no obstacles to the free movement of people, there are plenty of difficulties in terms both of tax law and of social security law, so that clarification is urgently necessary in the interests of the workers.
The first thing to be done is to arrive at an unambiguous definition of the term frontier worker.
It is all too often the case that different interpretations are advanced.
It would be splendid if the Commission could work towards producing some proposals in this area.
In our group, we have looked at these issues in depth, and we are able to agree with many of the rapporteur's ideas.
We would like our draft amendments to contribute to ensuring that the report on the problems of frontier workers sticks with this issue, and that it is not muddled up with other sets of problems.
We shall reject those points dealing with compensation funds.
In this matter, our view is that no genuine solution can be achieved on the basis of this sort of more or less voluntary individualisation between the Member States.
On the contrary, it would simply be a postponement which is the last thing the workers concerned want.
If there were any result, it would involve a lot of agreements between countries which would simply compound the confusion and no country would consider itself obliged to make any effort to work towards a common and fundamental solution of the problem.
I would like to encourage the Commission to take concrete steps in this regard and to press for the proposals which it has already put forward.
The Council has put a tight leash on itself by virtue of the unanimity procedure.
These are brakeblocks which should at long last be abolished now in the interests of the European cause.
We shall also reject the demand for checks and directions to be introduced into free collective bargaining.
Free collective bargaining is something that we have always strongly defended.
Our Amendment No 10, which relates to point 13, was withdrawn by me, because it was drawn up on the basis of an error in translation in the German version.
That also relates to the term "Europaprüfung' in the German version, but we have already come to an agreement with the rapporteur about ensuring that care is taken to make the appropriate changes in the different versions.
