Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, first of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Olsson.
He made every effort with this report in the course of the procedure, and I believe that he has presented a good report.
We need to take action in the environmental field, even if at the moment it is not popular everywhere to talk about the environment.
We have many unsolved problems.
To name just one, there is the issue of how the European Union and the Member States intend to carry out their Rio and Kyoto obligations in terms of CO2 reduction.
There are various possible ways of tackling these problems.
We can use administrative law or we can allocate state subsidies.
These are all necessary, but in my opinion they are not the ultimate pearl of wisdom.
It is better to use the market economy in this area also, because it not only provides the most efficient solution to the problem, but it also allows the polluter pays principle to come into play.
Of course, we must now ask the general question: why are environmental taxes and duties not much more widespread in Europe and in the world, in our Member States and at Union level?
This is partly due to the fact that if we want to impose environmental taxes we expose ourselves to suspicion that we are doing so to finance new public services.
Unfortunately, the previous speaker was not very precise either about this.
She said that we could do new things which the State could provide for.
We, the Group of the European People's Party, reject this concept.
We want environmental taxes in order to reduce taxes and duties in other areas.
In Europe we need less taxes overall, not more.
We need a redistribution of taxes and charges, increased taxation on use of the environment and a reduction in the burden on the labour factor.
But I would ask my colleagues to beware of using pushing this instrument too far it is intended to create new income for the State.
That is why we tabled the corresponding amendments.
These instruments should be tax neutral, not a means of increasing the tax burden.
Otherwise, I consider the report to be very good.
It rightly says that it is better to introduce a charge of this kind, a tax of this kind at European level.
However, as long as this is not done, the Member States must, of course, be encouraged to use such instruments and must not become discouraged.
Unfortunately, we have had cases in the past, for example the introduction of an ecological car tax in Germany, when the Commission hesitated for a long time to promote environmentally friendly technology, and this must be different in future.
States which wish to use such instruments must be supported in this.
In conclusion, I would like to suggest an amendment to the Value Added Tax Directive, as I believe that some Member States would be very willing to introduce an increased value added tax on energy-related emissions, for example.
Certainly, the European Union's existing VAT Directive allows the application of a lower rate of VAT on energy but not a higher one.
The Commission should consider whether it should not be exactly the opposite.
Energy consumption should be reduced and taxes on labour should also be reduced, and it is for this reason that this should be considered.
