Madam President, Mr Cunha has presented a very good report.
My group will support him.
He has made it clear that in the past this intervention system led to great disparities and injustices among producers, countries and regions, and that it had a destructive effect on jobs and the quality of food.
As I said before, Mr Fischler, a policy of price reduction within the intervention system leads to farms being excluded, and is fatal for farms and regions which are sensitive in their production and do not belong to the favoured sectors.
Here we must make a radical change.
We must move away from the intervention system and instead move towards an integrated development of rural areas, as is intended in the second pillar of Agenda 2000.
It is essential here that we offer a structural policy on a horizontal basis as in many areas we cannot sustain a policy of price reduction or a departure from the intervention system without regional markets being strengthened.
This would lead to the destruction of further jobs.
For this reason, we must be able to compete in terms of quality as a matter of urgency, Mr Fischler, and this should also apply to production in the world market.
Those who wish to produce for the world market may do so, but they should do so without state aid!
This would lead to an increase in prices on the world market, giving many farmers in Third World countries a chance once again to secure their livelihood by producing food for their countries and regions.
If we continue to dump to the tune of millions, this development will constantly be destroyed and it will result in social and ecological dumping.
I would like to mention external protection briefly.
This is, on the whole, confirmed by the parliamentary groups and I hope that the Commission will keep to its plan of also protecting regional development within the EU by protecting against external social and ecological dumping.
This would also help to stabilize the situation in the world market, which in turn would benefit those countries that are weakest in terms of agricultural production.
