I would like to thank Mr Elles for reminding me that two years ago I was already busy with that proposal.
In fact, by chance, I am here today to answer your concerns over the report of Mr Kellett-Bowman.
To a certain extent, this reminds me of my previous activity in the Committee on Budgets and in the Committee on Budgetary Control.
We have no objections at all to the proposals which have been made with discharge and financial control in mind.
I think this is already important common ground.
The only area in which we are not in agreement is the amendment proposals affecting the inclusion of all revenue of the decentralized agencies in the budget plan and, with that, the right to supervise the amount of the fees.
Everyone here knows why things are this way.
The Commission believes that this would interfere with the management autonomy of these institutions, at least in that it involves the agencies' own, original rights and they are also obviously controlled by the respective administrative bodies - naturally, they do not operate without any control at all.
That is why we would like to recognize the legal personality of the agencies while allowing a maximum of public control and transparency in the management of funds.
We do not see any reason in encroaching on the regulation of fees and duties that are paid by companies for services or on the regulation for amending the scale of fees.
We agree with Parliament where improved control of any surplus income produced by the self-financing agencies is concerned.
In this way, some of these agencies could be prevented from regarding themselves as purely economic enterprises, which they are not.
Insofar as such surplus income arises, control obviously needs to be guaranteed.
On behalf of my colleague, Mr Liikanen, I would like to express to you once again our regret at the actions of the Alicante agency, which has already been addressed.
We regret this and reaffirm our commitment to inform Parliament of all important agency decisions that have a financial impact.
