Mr President, the agency is a matter for the initiated.
That is why I would like to congratulate Mr Kellett-Bowman and Mr Tappin on their report, for the agencies are indeed something for specialists particularly from a budgetary point of view.
As general rapporteur for the 1998 budget, I had the pleasure of gaining an insight into the activities of the agencies.
I would like to report on this.
We had a meeting with the agency director in March of last year.
We reached agreements on the needs of these agencies in the 1997 budget and the 1998 budget, and we discussed the problems already mentioned here.
We agreed on working together and developing the greatest possible transparency in order to create trust between the agencies and the section of the budgetary authority representing Parliament.
Today I have to say that the majority have adhered to this, but some have not.
The translation centre, for example, decided to increase its staff from 68 to 115, while Alicante - Mr Tappin has just spoken about this - and London quickly allocated ECU 300 000 from surplus income before the end of the budget year so as not to have to justify this in principle to the budgetary authority.
Those are actions in themselves, which perhaps have their own reasons, but to take action without informing the budgetary authority is the surest way to generate mistrust.
I consider Amendment No 1 in the Kellett-Bowman report to be the key element for the agencies in London and Alicante and for the Trademarks Agency.
Here both the Commission and the Council should take the position of the European Parliament very seriously.
For three years we have constantly decided in the budgetary procedure on zero growth for the staff of the Commission, as well as the other European institutions.
Where the agencies are concerned, there has been an average annual growth of 17 % in staff.
I ask myself whether this is an honest or dishonest game the Commission and the Commissioners responsible are playing, or have the agencies already escaped control here if such abuses are able to occur?
The Group of the European People's Party will not tolerate the EP being deprived of its rights through the formation of agencies and all that comes with it.
I am not bothered about the work of the agencies; observing the Financial Regulations and respecting the budgetary authority is what concerns me.
We cannot fight for the full democratic control of budgetary expenditure in the European Union, whilst the agencies continue to evade the Financial Regulations.
