Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the question of conditional access is a central interface for the whole range of services in our information society.
What we have here in fact is the question of what are the conditions under which conditional access should be introduced.
It is, therefore, a matter of defining the conditions for conditional access, and this poses a series of fundamental questions.
Firstly, the relationship between fee-payment and private acquisition must be determined, because we could not, of course, allow someone to acquire Shakespeare and subsequently demand a fee whenever Shakespeare's work is performed.
The fact of the matter is that our culture is always a combination of individual and joint achievements.
Corresponding lines of demarcation need to be drawn here.
Secondly, it is a question of the relationship between the information-rich and the information-poor.
We must not allow conditional access to lead to a situation in which essential elements of our culture, essential elements which are public property, are accessible only to privileged minorities who can afford to pay for them.
Ultimately, we are dealing with a segmentation of the public which can indeed restrict people's freedom to form their own opinions.
The appropriate conditions must be imposed here so that, if private acquisition is necessary and sensible, it can indeed take place and rights can indeed be properly exploited as well.
We just need to bear in mind that we shall keep coming back to convergence, and there would certainly be a connection.
But basically, we have here a first opportunity to talk about the problem of convergence at this interface as well.
I have also complained about the regulatory minimalism which the Commission has displayed, instead of using this interface aggressively.
We have been particularly struck by two points.
Firstly, the fact that national boundaries and technical ranges do not coincide.
This leads to all sorts of inconsistencies in practice which have not been satisfactorily addressed.
If, for example, you use a decoder for Sky television as an English-speaking viewer in Belgium, is that structurally illegal?
Surely not!
Secondly, there is a very dangerous tendency for those who exploit rights to put themselves in the position of the copyright holders or of the originators, and to some extent to give these rights a subordinate character.
We must ensure that the originators and copyright holders are also protected.
That seems to me to be a necessary condition.
When we talk about conditional access, we are at the same time talking about the conditions that we want to impose on private industry for the introduction of conditional access.
With that in mind, I think that this ought to be our fundamental approach to the subject.
