Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are so used to the thorough and committed approach of the rapporteur, Mrs Fontaine, that I have to say that there is almost nothing left to add.
Today's agenda includes a whole string of reports which are important for our citizens.
These include, in particular, citizenship of the Union and the directive now before us, which is to amend 14 different directives on the recognition of professional qualifications.
The updating of mutual recognition of professional qualifications which we are debating today is especially important for young people, who are expected to be ever more mobile.
On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I would, therefore, specifically like to welcome the European Commission's response to a request made by Parliament on several occasions, to the effect that nationals of Member States who complete their education outside the European Union should also be taken into account.
The approach adopted is tentative.
We would have preferred actual recognition.
Nevertheless, we realize that the Commission needs to gain experience in this area before it goes any further.
We also specifically welcome the simplification of the advisory committees and the extension of their powers.
My group also fully supports the amendments, which will lead to greater transparency, and which call for the deliberations of the Coordination Group to be made accessible to the general public.
It is only in this way that we can genuinely respond to the public's demand for greater transparency, making the results easier for our citizens to understand.
We have deliberately refrained from tabling more far-reaching amendments at this stage, because we are aware that the Commission needs to embark on a general process of further simplifying legislation in the general area of mutual recognition of professional qualifications and must do this by 1999.
For this reason, we are somewhat impatient to see the report the European Commission is to prepare on its experience to date with the implementation of the directives.
We were promised this report for this spring, but it is still not available.
We need this report quickly, as we want to create as positive a future as possible for young people.
That is our job as legislators and we want to do justice to this task.
