Mr President, exchange programmes are the most effective means of letting young people experience how enriching it can be to participate in other people's cultures at a personal and even political level.
A major focus of this programme is also to train young people to develop their interpersonal skills.
I would therefore like to thank you, Mrs Cresson, for this initiative.
This programme is attracting an extraordinary amount of interest from young people.
For example, there are 10 000 applications in Germany alone as against a total of only 2 100 available places throughout the EU.
What is striking is that 90 % of the 223 German participants were women.
However, we have to be clear about one thing.
The resources provided to meet such a lively interest from young people must be backed up by an infrastructure which can cope with this amount of interest.
This is not yet the case.
In many countries this infrastructure is practically non-existent.
Although it does exist in countries like Germany, as for example in the compulsory civilian services, the traditional providers of the established social services have initially been very reluctant to get involved, with the result that the existing infrastructure could not be used by the European Voluntary Service.
Previous experience has shown that if we want to make the European Voluntary Service a success, it has to be done within a realistic financial framework.
The infrastructure must be further expanded and better employed.
To achieve this it is vital that volunteer services be coordinated with national civilian services.
Parliament's renewed call for the programme to be funded to the tune of ECU 80 million in the period 1998-1999 takes this view into account.
I would like to thank Mrs Fontaine for her commitment.
However, it is only when Parliament succeeds in carrying through these demands that the European Voluntary Service will be able to make the long-term contribution to European integration that we would like to see from it.
