Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this report has a political significance which transcends the actual content.
Why?
Because the rapporteur has understood exactly how to highlight where the difficulties lie.
He points out how uncommonly difficult the Member States and the Council find it to take a truly political stance on questions of judicial cooperation, especially in the criminal sector.
This is a central point which the rapporteur makes clear in his critique and for that we are grateful to him.
I really have trouble believing that the draft actually states and I quote, "no concrete proposals for improving legal provisions in this area' and that it does nothing to further the action plan.
It is a declaration of political bankruptcy by the Council and the Member States in an uncommonly sensitive political area because, as we all know, cooperation and integration are not needed just for the internal market and it is perfectly clear that the criminals are several jumps ahead of the political institutions when it comes to making decisions and solving problems.
This is the background against which the Council has submitted this ridiculous proposal to us.
This needs to be said, because it is the Council which is the legislator, not us.
Judicial questions and criminal law are normally the bread and butter of parliamentarianism and yet we only make a moderate consultative contribution.
I would, therefore, like to thank the rapporteur for his extremely critical comments in the report on the involvement of Parliament, especially in the explanatory statement.
It is extremely important in this context, I feel, for the committee and the rapporteur and, I hope, the full House, to respond to this uncommonly meagre Council proposal with proper legislative, substantive work.
I think it is important for the European Parliament to get things moving on the content side.
It is most welcome that the rapporteur and the committee have made up their minds to do so.
I think we should take this opportunity to stress how strikingly inadequate the powers of the European Parliament are under the third pillar and how they need to be strengthened.
This is clear from this example and we must ensure that political decisions are taken and institutional conclusions are drawn in this area in line with social developments.
The report proves this and the rapporteur has my wholehearted thanks.
