Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have made further progress in the fight against unemployment.
In Essen, in 1994, under the German Presidency, we laid the foundations for a comprehensive strategy on cooperation between Member States.
In the five spheres that have been identified, there are actions in favour of those groups particularly affected by unemployment, of which a disproportionately high ratio are women.
At the Employment Summit in Luxembourg in 1997, action plans were decided upon to combat long-term and youth unemployment, and to move from passive to active measures.
These concern women especially.
What is known as atypical work has long since become typical - voluntary work, fixed-term contract work, and help from family members.
Part-time work is sensible if it allows the demands of work and family life to be better reconciled, including through homeworking and teleworking.
It is not sensible if working by the hour is extended so much that it more or less becomes a full-time job, and an underpaid one at that.
Part-time work without social cover, opportunities for further training and career advancement is merely something for companies to fall back on when they have a lot of orders.
Here, as the PPE Group has pointed out in its amendments, the danger of dismissal is ever-present.
The social security section of the 1997 Directive on Part-Time Work needs to be fleshed out.
In order to make it easier for women to enter into their preferred career, skilled child-care is also needed.
It should be affordable, appropriate and with flexible and extended opening hours.
Germany's Law on nurseries, which lays down the right to a nursery place, is a good beginning which other countries should copy.
We in the PPE Group support Mrs Marinucci when, in her committed report, she calls for it to be made easier for women to return to professional life.
A person who interrupts their career to bring up children, look after elderly dependants, in the service of someone else in other words, should not be held back.
They must be supported, even by taking this into account when it comes to pension entitlements.
I cannot however share one of the assessments made by the rapporteur, of the value of education and training.
Of course it is unacceptable that women, who happily by now make up the majority at universities, should suffer more from unemployment than their male counterparts and should be over-qualified for many jobs.
Nevertheless, higher education qualifications are always worth having, even if they are no guarantee of a job.
They increase the chances of securing a job and increase selfconfidence.
There are still considerable difficulties in climbing up the career ladder.
Companies headed or founded by women are still in an all too obvious minority.
That is why promoting the enterprise culture, or easier access for women to financing and loans, are top priorities for the PPE Group.
At the suggestion of our Committee on Women's Rights, let us do what we can to ensure that these ideas are adopted by the economy and society.
