Madam President-in-Office, Mr President, I believe that a new strategy is currently being tested in Kosovo.
Last week I had a chance to see it in action out there.
The new strategy is a scorched earth and ethnic cleansing strategy.
That is a method we simply cannot tolerate.
We cannot allow the militant Serb forces to roam freely three kilometres left and right of the main traffic routes and create a firing range there, destroy every tree and every house and leave scorched earth behind.
Nor can we check the flows of refugees into our countries, since we have no means of access there.
Apparently some 60 000 refugees are now living in the open in the forests or in inadequate shelter.
We do not know the exact numbers because we have no access.
But we should demand access by all possible means and under all possible circumstances.
We must be more specific in our statements.
When we refer to autonomy, whatever form it is to take, we must also set certain basic, minimum conditions, such as very clear control of the police, the administration and the judiciary by democratically elected Kosovar forces.
That is one minimum condition we must set in our demands.
We must also use plain words to Mr Milosevic.
Let me say one thing quite clearly: the experience of the past eight years has shown that one cannot negotiate with him; at best one can negotiate about him, and that must be in The Hague.
Let me now also make a few comments on Albania.
After all, this is not the first attack on Mr Hajdari.
He was murdered on the third attempt.
We must not forget that on the first attempt he was shot at in parliament by a representative of the government party.
On the third attempt he was murdered.
We must not forget that it was a representative of the government party who fired at him in parliament the first time round.
I am very glad that Mr Swoboda has spoken up again; hearing him say that Fatos Nano is acting in accordance with the rule of law really makes me doubt his understanding of the law.
Fatos Nano is not observing the principles of the rule of law.
Think of the blockade of the Democratic Party headquarters yesterday evening - which does not say much about his understanding of the law.
We must use plain words and we must act!
