Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I truly believe that this has been a historic month for Europe, because of the European Conference, the discussions about accession partnerships and the first round of negotiations.
Mr President-in-Office, you spoke about symbolism and symbols, and we have also seen many photographs which have documented the start.
But, thankfully, you have also told us that there are matters of substance.
It was this Parliament, and above all this party, which pointed out that the European Conference will become a farce if it is merely a social framework, if occasional photographs are all that matter.
I am very glad that a start has been made with matters of substance, and that perhaps some people who saw things as very open and very casual have now changed their conception, that we are actually talking about subjects which are very important for Europe and the future.
In the short time available, I would just like to mention a few points: First, we must point out in this framework and these discussions at the European Conference that we want a larger Europe, but a stronger Europe.
The enlargement and the larger Europe must not proceed at the cost of Europe's strength.
We see day after day how many deficiencies we have in our common foreign and security policy, and also in other areas.
This is also important because quite a few of the countries which now want to join have only achieved their independence very recently, and are asking themselves whether joining a new community can be combined with their striving for independence.
They may urgently want to join the Community, but they imagine it to be looser and less binding whereas it is important to us that the Community does not develop in this way.
Second, because the negotiations and discussions about accession will continue for a long time, we shall have to set some signals in the next few years, signals which say to the countries: the moment of accession has not yet come, but you are preparing well for it.
You are on the right path.
Such signals are expected.
I say that because I was recently in the three Baltic states with Pauline Green and saw how hungry they are for signals from Europe.
At the same time, Europe has just partially introduced obligatory visas or visa charges.
It is grotesque - to take just this example - that we expect countries and people in Europe to act on the basis of the Schengen rules, and at the same time force other countries - including Austria - to introduce obligatory visas or visa charges.
This practice is incomprehensible and unacceptable, and I believe that we should change it.
Third, I would like to point out that the discussions with Slovakia are very important.
We are very sad that the Meciar regime is operating a policy which damages its own people, and I believe that the European Conference is the right framework for forcing Slovakia into pro-European behaviour.
It is also decisively important to consider today how the European Conference can be further developed, and what the relationship is with Russia, Ukraine and in particular Turkey.
Mr President-in-Office, I thank you for your report.
I believe that it was a good start!
It will be Austria's responsibility to continue this good start.
