Mr President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, firstly I would like to thank the rapporteur for her willingness to cooperate.
She made a significant contribution to the quality of the report.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I would like to note the following: the Structural Funds must adjust their support objectives in accordance with the objectives of the treaty and the tasks of the Community.
This includes inter alia the balanced and sustainable development of economic activities, a high level of employment and of social protection, equality between men and women, and economic and social cohesion and solidarity among Member States.
The principle of subsidiarity must be considered to a high degree in this context, as must the financial framework.
Under no circumstances must enlargement be used to reduce the upper limit of 0.46 % of Community GNP for structural spending or that of 1.27 % for total expenditure.
In my view, countries participating in monetary union can no longer receive additional support from the Cohesion Fund.
Moreover, solidarity does not mean taking more assistance than necessary.
Thus, for Objective 1 the 75 % threshold of per capita GDP must be adhered to rigidly.
I therefore welcome a transitional period for regions currently eligible for aid within the framework of Objectives 1, 2 or 5b.
The new Objective 2 is, unfortunately, not logical, Madam Commissioner.
It is and remains a scrambled objective.
80 % of EU citizens live in towns, and if rural areas become increasingly disadvantaged in terms of EU support the relationship will deteriorate further.
This means that migration from rural areas to the towns will increase even further.
There are two possible ways to improve the Commission proposal.
The first is an independent objective for rural areas and the second is a subdivided objective with two separate budget lines.
The criteria must be capable of being extended and weighted by the Member States in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity.
Under no circumstances must the planned concentration of funding hold the Member States back completely from determining the level of assistance they are to receive.
The upper limit of the de minimis rule must therefore be raised considerably.
Aid from Objective 3 must be flexible and easily applicable.
The reduction of Community initiatives to just three is to be welcomed.
But PHARE-CBC funds previously earmarked for cooperation with Interreg cannot under any circumstances be used at the borders between the CEECs.
SME assistance must be increased but, even more importantly, it must be simplified, Madam Commissioner.
The 10 % level for reserve funds is too much.
In this way, the Commission is attempting to gain greater influence because in the end it also determines the use of these reserve funds.
In my view, this is a clear violation of the principle of subsidiarity.
