Mr President, Commissioner, the rapporteur had made a very valuable contribution to the discussion and - although of course technically he should not - also to the arguments for the reform of the Structural Funds.
If it is the case that these guidelines are intended to reflect the objectives and the European dimension of structural fund policy, and therefore if they really do specify programming priorities, then quite clearly they should not be too numerous.
Guidelines should not, after all, be a source of confusion.
Paragraph 7 of the motion for a resolution can give the impression that these guidelines are taken as very specific quantitative indicators, in other words, concrete figures and quotas.
I should like to warn against this, for I believe that it is possible to meet European guidelines even where specific targets may be missed by a short distance, .
Concealed behind this argument - as we are all aware - is the problem of this Commission proposal, the 10 % reserve.
The specific question we have to answer is how in the future - if we take the decision on this line next year, for example - the Commission will decide whether a Member State would have such a sum deducted and whether these funds would then be distributed to other regions.
This should only be the case, if at all, where a Member State has genuinely failed to meet guidelines, not simply failed to achieve a set of figures.
It must be a genuine case of failure to meet a small number of important European guidelines.
If - as is currently envisaged and as we in this House would also wish - in the future Member States really are to be given greater leeway in the national implementation of European programming, then these guidelines must neither be too detailed, nor too numerous.
Otherwise, although we would technically be giving the Member States and the regions greater leeway, we would not be doing so in detail.
Finally, and even though we are rather depleted in number, I should specifically like to thank Mr Howitt for what he has achieved.
Anyone reading this report in detail - something I would recommend to all my fellow MEPs - will see that he has not only given formal consideration to the issues, but that he really has spoken to everyone, from senior Commission officials to the project agencies in the various Member States, and recorded many suggestions.
I would recommend anyone taking part in the forthcoming discussion to read it thoroughly.
