Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of the Russian State Duma, in my capacity as chairman of the Delegation for relations with the Russian Federation, I can assure you that this Parliament constantly follows developments in Russia with great interest and goodwill.
Our hopes and our belief that the reforms had begun to take effect have, however, been steadily dashed and confounded over the past few weeks and months.
A sigh of relief resounded through Russia and the Western world when our colleagues in the Duma took the first step out of the political crisis by unanimously electing Yevgeny Primakov as Prime Minister.
This political crisis, however, is but a reflection and a symptom of the structural crisis in the entire country.
The real problem - as we have all come to see very clearly - lies in the fact that the ground has not yet been cleared for a radical rebuilding of the Russian economy.
There is no platform on which the Russian economy can be built.
The measures taken to date have not succeeded in creating a new legal framework within which economic activity can be pursued.
There are no conditions on which businesses can rely.
There can be no doubt that the inadequacy of the rules governing taxation, banking and the acquisition of land have led to the present desperate situation.
Moreover, since the conditions are not there for a proper trade cycle to develop, only certain groups in Russian society have been fully involved in the reform process.
Too few people in Russia have seen their standard of living improve in any tangible way as a result of the measures that have been taken to date.
Too many people in Russia live in grinding poverty.
It is crucial to the future development of Russia that, under the new Prime Minister, a stable government is formed which enjoys the backing of Parliament.
That is the only way in which the new Russian Government can succeed in curing the paralysis that has stricken the political system and in tackling the fundamental reforms that are needed more urgently than ever before.
As you know, the Joint Parliamentary Committee, which my colleague Vladimir Ryzhkov and I have co-chaired since the entry into force of the partnership and cooperation agreement, is meeting at the present time here in Strasbourg.
In that context, I should like to assure our Russian partners of the solidarity of the European Union.
We ourselves in the European Parliament will do everything in our power to support the continuation of the reform process through the constructive dialogue to which we have become accustomed with our colleagues from the State Duma.
But we must also consider whether the TACIS programme in its present form meets the requirements arising from the situation in Russia.
May I call on our colleagues from the Duma to make responsibility for their country their guiding principle in the coming weeks and months and to play their part in helping to solve the delicate problems confronting the Russian nation.
In particular, this entails the rapid adoption of the overdue and indispensable legislative bills.
It is up to you now to create the legal framework for the economy your country so urgently needs.
In this spirit, my wish for the Russian people is that their politicians will lead them into a better new millennium.
