Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, allow me to say to you: ' I was very pleased to hear that the major environmental spheres of water, air and waste are included in your list of priorities.'
If the British Presidency of the Council assists the European Parliament in this respect it will count amongst the progressive and successful presidencies.
However, I would also urge you to bear in mind that what you refer to in such general terms implies integration in other spheres of policy, and that when you are considering the revision of the structural funds regulation you see very clearly that environmental policy is applied in all structural funds, and also that you keep an eye on this over the next six months and tell everyone else about it as well please.
When I see the Commissioner for Transport nodding, at the same time I also applaud the fact that you link transport and environmental policy, because these are important spheres.
And I will be grateful to you if you can reduce emissions of noxious substances.
It is of course no surprise that I expect you to place consumer protection at the top of your agenda.
You did not mention this but I know that it is close to your heart.
So close, indeed, that on Friday I know you will take very attentive note of how the WTO panel decides on the hormone question, and will definitely ensure during the presidency of the Council that the European Union adheres to its prohibition of hormone and growth enhancers.
I will say something else about consumer protection, and that is what everyone now expects from me: BSE.
Of course I will say something about this.
It is certainly a coincidence that the Commission, right at the start of the British Presidency of the Council, will consider a partial lifting of the export ban, and I know that you, Mr Kinnock, have fought particularly strongly for this.
I am on your side if consumer protection and safety are taken into account, and I ask you, Mr President, to make it very clear that Great Britain - although, and precisely because, you have the presidency of the Council - will ensure in a completely unselfish manner that safety and vigilance are given top priority, that deception in the meat trade and other areas, for example, is combated and that you will not jeopardize the trust that you have also re-established in Europe, in the European Parliament and amongst the people.
(Applause from the Group of the Party of European Socialists)
