Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, further to the comments already made by colleagues in my group, I should like to draw the attention of the presidency to some of the written resolutions of this Parliament in December, which are of great significance both to the Commission as well as the Council.
In its resolution on the second reading of the budget the Parliament also formulated various criteria which are significant to the working programme of the presidency, and I should like to ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, whether you are prepared to comment on these today or to deal with them when the presidency participates in the individual committees.
On the basis of the successful budgetary procedure for 1998 we said that we anticipate an informal collaboration with the Council at the beginning of the year in order to put in motion the setting of realistic common budgetary objectives.
Secondly, we said that in view of the successful procedure for agricultural expenditure we anticipate that this procedure will be institutionalized and that we should have a discussion on this in March 1998 at the latest.
I should also like to say that in the resolution on the working programme of the Commission we urged that on the question of the legal basis we must finally come to an agreement between the institutions, and I think that the British Presidency of the Council should also devote itself to this tiresome subject.
I want to add that along the lines of what was discussed in Luxembourg and what has always been the view of this Parliament, preparations for the reform of the system of capital resources must also be made because this is a very lengthy process which cannot be dealt with within six months.
In view of what we learnt in the BSE Investigatory Committee, for me there is also really something missing from what must already have been discussed in the general Council under the Luxembourg Presidency.
It is good when you say that we want to have public debates in the Council in the interests of openness and transparency, but in the interests of positive and improved cooperation between all the institutions, and irrespective of the legal interpretation of Article 3 of the inter-institutional agreement on the right of the Investigatory Committee, I also expect the Council to formulate a declaration whereby in the future it is made clear that, irrespective of the legal interpretation of this agreement, national ministers will also say that in the interests of transparency and responsibility we will accept invitations of investigatory committees of the European Parliament.
I would be very pleased if you would provide a positive answer to this in your capacity as President-in-Office of the Council as well.
Two brief comments on agricultural policy.
Clearly, here you have also presented the traditional, historically determined agricultural philosophies of the United Kingdom.
I am very anxious to know whether during the course of your presidency of the Council you will - also in terms of the basic philosophy - manage to set in motion the necessary adjustment to the regulation of the banana market and harmonize this with the concepts your presidency of the Council has of agricultural policy.
This will be a very exciting debate and I would add that we must be very much on the alert in this respect.
Improvements are necessary with regard to the Agenda 2000, which the Parliament is also discussing: liberalization on the one hand, increased levies for European agriculture and at the same time a reduction of expenditure, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
This is in fact a crash course which no one can withstand.
What we must agree on is a necessary reform, an adjustment, to achieve a smooth passage enabling the implementation of a model European agricultural policy and at the same time the realization of a consumer protection clause within the framework of the WTO.
