Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
If one examines the text of this directive where it refers to the Council's common position on the adoption of an EP and Council directive on the operation of settlement finality in payment and securities settlement systems, then one has to say that the title is somewhat irritating.
The important point is that inter-bank payment systems within the European Union, should be protected from bankruptcy and the effects of bankruptcy.
In the broadest sense this also means intervention in the national bankruptcy law and in the national insolvency law.
All this is justified by saying that we are creating inter-bank payment systems of Europe-wide significance, such as the Target system of payments, which is after all one of the requirements for the introduction of the euro.
And in these inter-bank payment systems we also have to ensure that in the event of insolvency of a particular bank, this will have no effect on the payment systems nor indeed on other banks.
That is why this directive was proposed and that is why we now have a common position.
My report clearly illustrates where the incompatibility lies.
On one hand there is a desire to protect the inter-bank payment systems in order to keep the financial system workable and, on the other, there will be the interests of creditors which have to be taken into account in any normal case of insolvency or bankruptcy.
The problem here is how to strike an appropriate balance between the two opposing interests.
In the first reading Parliament disagreed with a number of points in the Commission's proposal and submitted its own amendments.
Parliament believes that the outcome of the common position is now better than the original Commission proposal, as submitted in the first reading.
As before, however, we have identified three aspects of the common position which, from Parliament's point of view, have still not been resolved to our entire satisfaction.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has submitted to the plenary suitable proposals for amendments for tomorrow's vote.
One of these amendments seeks to restrict insolvency protection not only to the point in time at which transfers were made into the inter-bank payment systems, but also to those transfers which have been effected on the same day, irrespective of the exact time at which they were made, in other words, commissions which were effected after the opening of the insolvency.
In this we identified an opportunity for wilful banks to indulge in manipulation.
The amendment which we proposed in this respect seeks to reverse the burden of proof in order to strengthen the goodfaith provision - something not previously provided for in the common position.
Furthermore, the directive contains a ruling allowing the individual national legislatures to exceed the protective scope of the directive.
We sought to make changes here too.
The Committee on Legal Affairs has instead proposed that the supervisory powers of the national Member States be increased.
An additional aspect which we have included is the obligation to provide information for the benefit of customers.
We have held a series of talks with the Commission, even during the second reading, and I should like to thank the Commission, and in particular Mr Monti, for their cooperation and for the close contact which has been established with the Council.
The aim, of course, is to obtain a Council Resolution after the second reading which accepts our resolutions from this second reading, so that this directive can come into force as soon as possible.
This is also bound up with the introduction of the euro and there is therefore a real urgency here.
I would also like to make a number of comments on the Minutes which have arisen in the course of the recent debate.
It has been pointed out on behalf of the European Monetary Institute that the EMI, and later the European Central Bank, would have to be responsible for notifications.
It goes without saying that this directive, as a subordinate European law, can only achieve validity within the framework of the treaties and that if the treaties, as the higher-ranking law, govern the jurisdiction of the European Central Bank, then naturally the provisions of the directive cannot run contrary to these.
The second comment which I wish to make is that inter-bank payment systems operating with so-called currentaccount arrangements, that is those which do not operate a conventional netting system but which have netting of their results, in other words where the final outcome is similar to the netting system, should in my opinion as rapporteur be included within the scope of this directive.
To achieve this we do not need to amend the definitions which we currently have in the directive.
This is my position as rapporteur.
Tomorrow I shall therefore propose that we approve the common position with the amendments which have been introduced by the Committee on Legal Affairs and subsequently by the PPE and Group of the Party of European Socialists.
The rapporteur therefore recommends that all six amendments be approved here by the House.
