Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all thank you very much, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten.
You have seen fit to comment on this issue, Regulation No 1408, on occasion before, of course.
I thank you for your tenacity and persistence here.
You know that the Socialist Group - and, I think, the whole of Parliament - support you in this matter.
The technical amendments to the present Directive are all correct in principle and long since overdue.
Unfortunately the Commission was once again somewhat fainthearted.
That is why we have supported some amendments of yours.
I also think these were needed in order to send a message to particular groups, such as students, pensioners and the unemployed, and to show generally how seriously we take freedom of movement.
The right to freedom of movement is already anchored in the Treaty of Rome.
However, it is always surprising to discover what obstacles and barriers the Member States put up against this and how reluctant they are to bring about equality of social treatment.
A series of Commission proposals and parliamentary opinions are lying dormant with the Council.
They are not being implemented because the political will is lacking.
I welcome your suggestion, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, that we should be given an overview of which Member States are blocking progress so much.
I welcome it regardless of who the culprits are!
The Commission likewise is a bit too complacent and cautious in several areas.
This is shown in the new action programme on freedom of movement, which fails to represent social security with the same commitment shown for the free movement of capital, goods and services.
It is our aim as a Parliament, as elected representatives, to guarantee workers the right to freedom of movement, to reduce discrimination and to plan and take a courageous step towards further integration, and not wait, as so often happens, until the European Court of Justice has taken the lead.
I think it is proof of how impoverished we are as parliamentarians if the European Court or national courts need to show us the way in the matter of European integration.
This is a political task and not, in fact, a job for the judiciary.
I hope with this Regulation we can move a little closer to the objectives I have just stated.
Though I hope, too, that we can finally record a success, to the extent that an amendment to a Regulation proposed by the Commission, which we have unanimously passed in Parliament, will be implemented by the Council of Ministers.
If this is the case, then I am certain that some of the scepticism of Europe's workers and citizens will be reduced in the process.
