Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, antibiotics are a good example of the way in which an invention that was a blessing can turn into a genetic time bomb.
Invented and used in the Second World War, at first on the Allied side, it was a blessing in their care for the wounded, then used in the case of serious illnesses and in operations on people to save lives by using a medicine "against life' - antibioticum which is equal to anti-life - subsequently spilling over into veterinary treatment as well, but finally generating a flood of prescriptions now that doctors resort to antibiotics whenever anyone gets a cold.
What is interesting is that dangerous bacteria are not on the retreat as a result and are not checkmated over the long term by this medicine.
Instead these bacteria are reacting, they are reacting with mutations, they are reacting with resistance.
In turn, the response to this has always been to develop new antibiotics, and the wheel turns faster and faster.
And then things go completely mad: now people have begun to make use of this means of prolonging life, that is so important for injured and ill people, as a prophylactic or preventive ingredient in animal food, because this medicine overcomes latent illnesses in herds of animals and above all does so in herds which are not kept in an appropriate and ecological manner, where serious mistakes are made in stock-keeping.
In these cases, the antibiotics exercise their greatest effect in improving yield because they suppress illnesses which would otherwise break out.
Now the circle is being closed even more quickly.
We are observing the development of resistance here as well, in the case of animals, in the prophylactic field.
New antibiotics are being invented with ever greater speed, at ever shorter intervals.
We have a great raft of antibiotics which are no longer effective in the case of most animal illnesses.
A time bomb is ticking away because, although there is no direct connection between antibiotics in animals and in human beings, there is an indirect one in the way in which "life' becomes resistant to applied medicines and then threatens us in the shape of disease germs.
Commissioner, all this could take on the same dimensions as BSE.
I think that there is an urgent necessity for the Commission to turn to scientific work and in the first instance to take the preventive action that Sweden has already taken, namely banning prophylactic use in animal food, and for us to develop scientific bases in order to hold our own in WTO negotiations.
