Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur very much for her sound report and also for the fact that it takes into account many of the proposals made by the Committee on External Economic Relations in relation to the content and organizational tasks of the Foundation and its role in establishing practical vocational training in third countries.
I would like to say clearly that the Foundation is doing good work.
The recent expansion of its vocational training activities should be welcomed.
The evaluation of the work carried out to date will lead to a much needed clarification of the status of the Foundation and its relationship with the Commission, an issue of great importance to its very committed staff, as I was able to discover for myself on the spot.
This evening, the debate has focused quite rightly on the role of modern vocational training in these countries in terms of new economic and employment structures and improved external trade relations.
In addition to capital aid, they also need to modernize their vocational training and further education systems at all levels, not only in management.
The Commission now needs to make full use of the specialist skills available at the Foundation in the preparation of accession candidates from central and eastern Europe in order to accelerate the alignment process as quickly as possible, and I also hope that in the process an effort will be made to speed up the disbursement of PHARE funds.
The experience gained by the Foundation to date must be used to the advantage of our new Mediterranean partner countries without delay and the Foundation must be given independent responsibility for certain, well-defined areas.
As far as I can see, little progress has been made as yet in terms of support measures for the MEDA programme.
It would be helpful, Madam Commissioner, if the Commission were to report to Parliament on this issue as soon as possible.
Brussels should not be allowed to overly restrict the Foundation's field of activity.
Project-based cooperation between the Foundation and the partner countries should be more intensive.
