Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can subscribe fully to 98 % of your statement.
That does not happen very often, that our two sides are in such agreement, but on what you said about Albania I am almost completely in agreement with you.
The fact is, Renzo and I were the two participants from this Parliament in this tripartite attempt at reconciliation.
The fact is, however, that reconciliation in this country between the two hostile camps has not yet been achieved and will not be achieved for some time to come.
It is constantly being undermined by both sides.
The language alone is revealing.
There, the leader of the opposition calls the parliament a Kalashnikov parliament.
The Prime Minister publicly calls the opposition a terrorist group and their leaders are called criminals with immunity.
It is therefore hard for a fruitful coexistence to flourish.
As the then socialist opposition did two years ago, the conservative opposition is now boycotting the Parliament.
We have always made it unmistakeably clear that a return to parliament is absolutely essential and it is also important for the opposition party, for it is only there that we shall listen to them.
The joint action, as Mr Imbeni has said already, was important.
It was unique in its cooperation and therefore it was of major significance to the Albanian public and the political representatives.
We all listened and our conclusions took into consideration all points of view on the internal politics.
The results included the fact that, firstly, amongst other things, the democratic place for decision-making was in the parliament and therefore the Democratic Party should finally return there.
Secondly, the parliament must, however, observe the dignity of the individual member and adhere to the democratic rules of the game, and in this respect the observation carried out by representatives of the OSCE or the Council of Europe should be helpful.
Thirdly, we also of course expect that the middle management staff, particularly in the legal field - and you referred to this earlier, Commissioner - which in recent years was trained with our money, are not arbitrarily thrown out into the street, but that use is made of their experience.
Fourthly, Albania needs a constitution, particularly for important investment projects.
According to existing law, the parliamentary committee should draw up the draft constitution, it should be accepted with a majority of two thirds and them - as they have committed themselves - a referendum by the public should decide.
I think that the composition of the committee destined to carry out all these procedures must be somewhat improved.
News in recent days reports, on the one hand, illegal police attacks on supporters of the Democratic Party, while on the other hand, the same event is represented as deliberate provocation of the police by the Democratic Party.
I find myself unable to say which of these is right.
It is very difficult to know from here but it proves one thing, that the fronts between the political camps are very firm and appear almost insurmountable and that force is the language of the politicians.
A joint action, such as we have undertaken can only be implemented once.
We do not churn them out on a conveyor belt.
As you have rightly said Commissioner, it is the job of politicians in Albania now to take their own fate into their hands at last and, if it is at all possible - and I address this both to the Council and the Commission - I would make a heartfelt request for pressure from both sides.
I do not mean gentle pressure but really energetic pressure, so that they finally get together in reconciliation and in the interests of the tormented people of Albania.
