Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, once again, Mr Secchi has been very successful in his role as rapporteur on taxation.
There are, however, a number of comments I should like to make on certain basic points.
As I see it, progress in European tax harmonisation is moving ahead at a snail's pace.
The single market and economic and monetary union mean that changes are urgently needed in this area, because it is not, as it is always blithely claimed, only direct aid which distorts competition in the single market, but also the rules on taxation.
The Commission's tax proposals before us will certainly help to eliminate double taxation within the European Union by applying common rules regarding interest and royalty payments to associated companies, and by taxing payments only in the Member State where the company receiving the payment is located.
Levying withholding tax on payments of interest and royalties often led to double taxation of companies, and it could not always be ensured that tax was charged in the Member State in which the company was located.
It is regrettable that this Directive only applies to associated companies for the time being, and we should ensure that its scope is extended to cover all companies as soon as possible.
While I am on the subject, we should also try to ensure that the package of Commission measures is implemented in full some time during this legislative period and also that other rules are adopted which are designed to put and end to double taxation, reduce administrative costs, lower the costs of cross-border financial transactions and remove obstacles to flexible financing methods.
That is why we need EU proposals to be put forward and implemented.
The Directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different Member States follows the right approach towards harmonisation and definitions in order to attain maximum neutrality.
Distortions in the single market are to be removed, tax losses incurred by individual states prevented and structures which are favourable to employment encouraged through the introduction of measures to end double taxation and to cut back on administrative costs, such as by reducing the costs of cross-border financial transactions and by removing obstacles to flexible financing methods.
There are still criticisms to be made on many points, such as restricting the suspended application of the directive to clear cases of tax evasion, or ensuring that the whole of the package of measures to combat tax competition is implemented.
The use of standard terminology in European tax law would also be a very good idea, and taxation should be extended to cover all company premises.
There are also other examples which could be included here.
Nevertheless, this directive is another important step on the very painful road to tax harmonisation.
The aim is not primarily to have tax harmonisation at any price because of the different taxation systems and conditions which exist in Europe: the aim is to have national regulations which lead to fair competition.
Coordination is the right first step here.
The Commission and Parliament need to bring much greater political pressure to bear, particularly on the Council, if progress is to be made.
