Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, my group is also waiting with bated breath for the answer to the four written questions, for Asia-Europe relations are very important not only for our own foreign relations but also as regards the economic and social situations in the 25 countries involved.
It is our view that the ASEM process should not simply be left to the Ministries of Foreign Affairs and the bureaucrats, but that the European Parliament and the Asian parliaments, which represent the people involved in the process, must also be included.
We support this process which must encompass a broad spectrum of cooperation ranging from political dialogue, through economic partnership to social and cultural cooperation.
We would also be very interested to find out whether the Council intends to discuss the enlargement of the ASEM with its Asian partners.
We see the inclusion of India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, New Zealand and Australia as interesting possibilities.
I do admit, however, that it must be our Asian partners themselves who take the decision, in the same manner as we have reservations in the case of Burma, due to its human rights situation, and are unable to accept the inclusion of Burma.
The London Summit can be successful only if the 25 heads of state and government can demonstrate that we can find common solutions to ending the financial crisis in Asia.
It is a question of creating greater transparency in the international banking sector.
It is a question of finding a mechanism to check short-term currency speculation.
I support those in the Council and in the Commission who hold the view that a country like Indonesia which is not only refusing to implement the reforms agreed with the International Monetary Fund, but is actually choosing to reject them, should not be able to count on the support of the Asia-Europe partners and that, on the contrary, both the Community and the Asian countries should work towards changing the political and economic circumstances in this country.
I share the view of my fellow Members that if it is to address economics, trade, finance and foreign policy, the ASEM Summit will also have to discuss the underlying problems which are common both to ourselves in Europe and to our Asian partners, that is, issues such as the fight against poverty, the observation of human rights, the development of democracy and the rule of law and the environment - let me remind you of the forest fires in certain parts of Asia which have not only local, but also global effects.
Finally, I believe - as some of those speaking before me have already said - that it is important to involve the European Parliament and the Asian parliaments in the process.
This is also an opportunity to support democratization in general and to strengthen Members' responsibility for international relations in particular.
This is why the involvement of the Asian parliaments and the European Parliament is of such great importance.
In conclusion, let me make just two further remarks.
Firstly, I would be very pleased if the President of the Council and Commissioner Sir Leon Brittan would announce personally that they will be making an official statement on the outcome of the London Summit at the mini-part-session in Brussels at the end of April, so that we will have another opportunity to debate the outcome.
Today we are discussing expectations, but it is also important that this House has a chance to debate the outcome on the basis of an official statement by the Council and the Commission.
Finally, ladies and gentlemen, may I take this opportunity to wish the Council and the Commission every success at the ASEM Summit in London.
