Mr President, I would like to comment on the point about whiskey; I find that interesting.
I have discovered this evening that whiskey can be artificially aged by irradiating it.
It is not your fault, but I would nevertheless like you to convey the mood of this House to the President, who is responsible for this matter.
I am referring to Rule 72, not to the sentence that you referred to, but to Rule 72, 2c.
It states that amendments are only admissible if they seek to amend a part of a text which was not included in the proposal submitted in first reading, etcetera.
I have checked with various colleagues on a cross-party basis, and they agree that the text does contain new points, because there have been developments in this field in recent years.
What we have before us today did not exist then, probably not even in people's wildest dreams.
So it is not only logical or possible, but urgently necessary to allow these amendments to be tabled.
Everyone agrees on this, there is no dissent.
Please convey this to the President.
Secondly, I would like you to clarify what happens in a situation when the chairman of the Committee on the Environment decides, by virtue of his office and personal views, not to accept amendments, and the President then refuses to admit quite different amendments by virtue of his own prerogatives.
There is a mismatch, a lack of consistency.
What happens then?
There is obviously a real muddle between these two gentlemen.
I would be grateful if you could clarify this.
What is the right thing to do now?
Do we have to have a total rethink?
Thirdly, I would like to refer to Rule 125, according to which the President has the last word and his decisions cannot be contested.
I ask you seriously, is there a limit to what cannot be contested?
For example, is there a limit such as logic, intelligence or doing the obvious?
Are there any such limits, or are we in that Grimm's fairy tale, the Emperor's New Clothes?
The one where everyone says, wow, he looks great, the President has got brilliant clothes, until someone comes along - a little child - and says that the President is in the altogether!
Are there no limits to the inviolability of the President's decisions?
I am asking you, because I know that you are very democratic, Mr President!
