Mr President, the European Union pays for expensive two-page advertisements in magazines, in which it extols the virtues of quality honey marked with an EU Member State as its place of origin.
The advert features the question: ' Do you treat honey with as much respect as Saint Ambrose did?' .
Saint Ambrose is the patron saint of bee-keepers, because he was a great honey-lover, an archbishop enthusiastic about the industrious activity of bee colonies.
Unfortunately, in preparing the proposal before us today, which is intended to simplify the directive on honey, the Commission has not followed the advice which it has spent so much money on giving to consumers in its adverts in glossy magazines.
Mr Bangemann, your proposals do not accord honey, a natural product, the respect it deserves.
I am very grateful to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and its rapporteur, Mr Lannoye, for incorporating in its report the many amendments which I submitted in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development.
The main thing is that the honey produced in our Member States, a highly nutritious agricultural product, should be protected against lower quality cheap imported honey, and it should therefore most definitely be compulsory to state on the label whether the honey is produced in the Union or in a third country.
Unfortunately, in some Member States there is honey on the market which is up to 80 % adulterated.
Furthermore, honey filtering, which destroys genetic fingerprints so that its regional origin can no longer be identified, should be absolutely banned.
We should be listening to the bee-keepers, not the bottling lobby, to make sure that as many bee-keepers as possible are prepared to produce high-quality honey despite the much higher costs involved.
This should also ensure, as I have always preached in my reports on bee-keeping in Europe, that the European Union will have enough bees, which pollinate over 80, 000 different plant varieties.
I consider it essential that our amendments should be accepted.
They mean that the statement of origin would make it clear that the honey does not just meet a fair number of the quality requirements, but the majority of them.
I have run out of time now and will say the rest when we vote.
