Mr President, many years ago the European Community introduced pan-European standards for tractor seats.
We are still waiting for a solution for the electric plug.
We have gathered a great deal of experience in the field of standardization, and we have also been punished very severely for a great deal of our standardization, for example the angle of curvature of bananas.
Today we are talking about standardization in the case of vehicles for the carriage of passengers.
This is a very important area.
At this point, I thank the rapporteur, Mr Murphy, for his impressive commitment and his understanding of the detailed solutions mentioned.
The Group of the European People's Party largely supports these results, particularly as regards persons with reduced mobility.
I myself have proposed in committee that the definition of disabled should be made more specific and that it should be extended.
We are in favour of the use of boarding aids even for Class II vehicles, appropriate forms of handrails, entrances, luggage racks and special destination displays, in order to make the use of buses both possible and practical for disabled persons.
Our concerns lie in a different direction, however.
From today we are no longer regulating just tractor seats.
The European Parliament is about to design the perfect bus.
More than 100 amendments on technical details have been tabled.
There is mention of a radius of between 2.5 mm and 5 mm for corners, of retractable steps, of obvious markings on edges and even of hot drink vending machines and cooking equipment.
In our view, we must, however, distinguish between political initiatives and questions of technical standardization.
The latter should be dealt with by appropriate committees of experts, such as standards institutions - for example, the CEN - in other words, by specialists who build and/or use the buses.
We are therefore also convinced that some important political points must be addressed.
In this area, a SLIM initiative should also be implemented, which concentrates on the essential political aspects.
We believe that, above all, the proposals concerning the safety of vehicles and/or the accessibility of vehicles for the disabled, in Appendix 7, which go beyond those of the Commission, are sensible.
However, we should have a debate where it makes sense to do so; namely, in a technical committee.
That is also the reason why the Group of the European People's Party will tomorrow propose that it should be referred back to the relevant committee.
We believe that the extent of the debate should be clearly reduced, but should be all the more specific, so that it can contribute further to a proper standardization of this area.
