Mr President, I believe that to say that the report is very cautious and unsystematic is to do Mr Caudron an injustice.
Nevertheless, we should remember that this problem was discussed in all its detail and all its contradictions in the Delors Report of 1993, and we should also remember the tenth chapter where a strategic conclusion - that of the need for a new development model - was at least hinted at.
In my opinion, before beginning the debate we have to redefine at least two things, and despite his many sensible ideas Mr Caudron was not able to remedy this.
The first is the term "industry' , which can be defined in many ways, perhaps as the demarcation of industry and the craft trade in terms of repairs, or perhaps as the development of new branches of the industry which no longer resemble the old ones, such as in terms of contents production, the information society or the transport/telecommunications sector which give the term "industrial structure' , which Mr Caudron rightly uses, a whole new meaning.
Secondly, we must consider more carefully the importance and meaning of the term "competitiveness' .
It is not simply a question of costs; it is also a question of quality and particularly of benefits for others; it is not so much a question of export surpluses, in any case not in a large European Economic Area whose export quota is under 10 %.
Mr Caudron addressed real problems: for example, the lack of investment.
But I believe that we should not conceal the fact that it is linked to a situation in which for the last 15 years cost cutters have had control of both the private and public spheres and this has had devastating results.
It should also be noted that, as far as the technologies of the future are concerned, Europe is currently giving away the lead it had, and to a certain extent still has, in environmental technologies.
Because of this I, as a member of a small parliamentary group, wish simply to quote the great axis analysis strategy which could alternatively be applied and which in some ways agrees with what Mr Caudron proposed but is further-reaching.
First of all, at a European level, we urgently require something like a gouvernement économique which then also takes control of the various dimensions of dumping - fiscal, social, ecological - and, by means of a new policy relating to market economics, sets new conditions of development.
We then need a renewal of the European model of society and consensus, which itself is a condition for innovation and also a factor of productivity.
If complaints are being made about a lack of innovation we should not forget who caused it.
I think it was neoliberal deregulation policy which caused it; this frightens everyone and prevents innovation.
The third requirement would be a necessary axis of social and ecological reconstruction as a systematic exploitation of technologies, procedures and resources appropriate for the future, moving towards a revolution in efficiency and sufficiency and a refocusing of the economy on local and regional requirements.
This would finally be a practical discussion, unlike the quite old debate on the question of whether we should have an industrial policy or the debate brought up again by Mrs Carlsson about the purpose of deregulation, as those are the wrong debates.
