Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, some time ago the media presented a report which worried a lot of people, gave rise to a number of jokes and became a real talking point.
The story was not about the European Commission nor about Parliament.
A major German-based car manufacturer had carried out trials on a new model, which had reportedly overturned during testing.
What did the manufacturer do?
It re-designed the car and restored customer confidence.
If the Commission had been this same manufacturer, it would have said: "let us first carry out an internal investigation to establish whether the car actually existed and whether or not there were any moose in the area at the time' .
Years later - and by this time the company's shares would have fallen through the floor - we would probably have received a report stating that, while there were moose around, it could not be said with any certainty that a moose had personally been involved in the car overturning.
In the meantime, the Commission would probably have improved the car anyway, but would have said nothing to anyone about this.
On a more serious note, much of what we are debating today has been discussed before on numerous occasions.
Almost everything which the rapporteur, Mr Elles, writes in his report, and which I can support on behalf of my group - in other words, all parts of the report -, are points which we have often expressed.
The question of why we are now postponing the discharge is an obvious one, since much of what is addressed there could well have been said at any time during the past 12 months.
Many of the new issues involved may well have been present a year ago in a different form.
We could just as easily have got together and said "discharge with critical comments or postponement of discharge' .
The difference is a matter of degree.
What does this reveal?
It reveals a loss in confidence.
Not only a loss in confidence between a few Members of the Committee on Budgetary Control and the Commission.
We possibly still have much more confidence in you than others do.
But it reveals a loss in confidence in European institutions - and not only in this House but with the public at large.
This is a major problem.
I do not think that we can solve it by postponing the discharge, but perhaps we can use this to illustrate what is wrong.
Reports will be appearing this week in the media, or may already have appeared, on the subject of Europe - and not on the discharge or on the granting or postponement of the discharge.
These European themes include enlargement, monetary union and everything connected with the concept of Agenda 2000.
If we want to achieve all these things - and we really want to - then the face of Europe will be dramatically changed in the years to come.
We want this change - and here I am speaking both to the Council and to the Commission.
We want this change and we want to be involved in bringing it about.
But it can only function if the citizens of Europe put their trust in the Union and its institutions: if they feel they are based on clarity and transparency, that there is democratic accountability and that Parliament is not just there to make comments now and again, but is in real dialogue with the Commission - which by this means and this means alone is subject to democratic accountability.
This is the fundamental problem and I believe that it is the reason for postponing the discharge, in order to make it clear that improvements have to be made - and not only in our personal relations, for I do not think that the situation here is as bad as all that, but rather in terms of the external impact involved.
I would like to illustrate this by means of an example, since this has already been touched on by almost every other speaker in one form or another.
Madam President-in-Office of the Council, I address my remarks specifically to you.
The criticism which has been made of the computerization of the transit system is not to do with the fact that it is a very difficult subject, or that it is a complex process which has lasted longer than was foreseen.
We all know that this sort of thing can happen at any time.
No, Madam President-inOffice, ladies and gentlemen of the Commission, we are talking about something quite different.
The call for computerization was the central demand of the first Committee of Inquiry set up by this Parliament.
The Commission's undertaking to do this and to make this the central issue has contributed significantly to the fact that in our final report our dealings with the Commission were actually quite harmonious and resulted in a well-balanced report with well-balanced demands, rather than simply succumbing to directing criticism at the Commission.
You met us half-way and you proposed a plan as to how to proceed further.
We know that the unexpected can always happen.
But why did you fail to inform us?
You drew up a timetable and you then confirmed it at a time when you already knew that it could not be met.
That is where the mistrust lies.
You informed us that there was to be a delay, but you told us too little, too late and only after repeated inquiry, and I would like to know why.
Hence the misgivings on our part.
It was not that nothing could have happened to delay such a complex project.
We can well appreciate that.
In spite of everything, we still live in the real world and know that things can go wrong, that problems can arise and that sometimes it is not possible to keep to schedule.
But the point I am making is the fact that you again failed to keep us informed; that is where the confidence building comes in.
This is the key point.
And for that reason this issue perhaps affected us much more than any of the others.
Then there is the integrated control system.
How often have we discussed this subject?
Deadlines were set and then extended and all the time we were told "we are on the way, we will have an impact on the Member States, we will get results' .
We are quite ready to believe this, but I want to know why are we still standing here making the same demands as before - only this time things are worse.
The situation itself is not worse - what is worse is the fact that we are not going to believe what you tell us.
This is indeed a dramatic turn of events.
A final point, which Mr Elles did not mention, is one which was introduced through amendments tabled by Mr Bourlanges.
This concerns staff policy.
Here too it can be said that much of what has been criticized in other points, such as the implementation of the programmes and so on, is still connected with the fact that the Commission tells us that we do not have enough staff, that we have bottlenecks and so on.
We accept that.
But at some point there has to be a plan on the table, there must be transparency.
When we are told that there are still efficiency reserves, that restructuring could be introduced, then we have to know how big these reserves are, when they are to be mobilized and how.
If the Commission really believes that we cannot enter the new millennium with many more Member States and an increasing number of duties to perform, since the reserves must run out sooner or later, then it must tell us this and demonstrate it in a plausible manner.
It simply will not do for the Commission to say, when it comes to each and every little programme, that we have five people missing here, three people missing there and maybe even twenty people missing somewhere else.
This is why we engaged some company or other to sort out the problem.
Later, years later - as was always the case when we put our minds to it - this company tells us "that really was the reason, but we are on the right road' .
Yes, I really do think that we are on the right road, but we should be doing more than just showing that we are on the right road, we should be doing it in such a way that people can believe us.
I shall say one more thing and this will be my final word on the subject.
The European Union has an institution which is responsible for, and which can influence, the people's trust in the Commission - and that institution is the European Parliament.
If you fail to convince us, or if you do not win or regain our trust, then no-one in this European Union will trust you in the future, for you yourselves cannot be voted in or out of office.
We are the middle-men, we are the democratically elected body.
We need a strong Commission for the future and we need a strong Parliament too.
But this Parliament needs a Commission which it can work with and to which it can say "Yes, we can confirm that and give it our full and unreserved support' .
