Mr President, there has been much talk of accession today, although actually the European Conference should definitely not be seen as an instrument of pre-accession strategy.
For this reason, Turkey, which I do not consider to be a candidate for accession although I share Mr Langen's political assessment in all points, was accepted into the conference.
But in my opinion this European Conference has an important task to fulfil apart from accession, and therefore it should be opened to other states, as Elmar Brok said.
It should be opened to states which are not yet at the gates as candidates for accession, either because they have been internationally slandered - like Croatia, which is at least as ready for accession as Slovakia or Cyprus - or because, like Ukraine, which still has to live through a difficult time, and which we must help massively, they are not yet in a position to move closer to Europe or the European Union.
However, the London Conference, in spite of the difficult, unclear position in which it found itself, made one specific statement.
That was its declaration on justice and internal affairs.
My report about expansion eastwards and internal security will be presented tomorrow.
But beyond that, the European Conference can achieve a Pan-Europe of law and internal security before the last agricultural problem in the European Union is solved.
People will only accept a greater Europe if it results in more, not less security.
This approach, putting internal security at the centre of this conference, is therefore to be welcomed.
Also to be welcomed is the consideration of Kosovo, one of the most important problems which the whole of Europe will face in the next few years, and there it is important that Turkey as a partly European and Islamic country should be involved in this region, because of its special historical connection.
We must restore the autonomy of Kosovo under international control with international peace-keeping troops, for we have already gone beyond the eleventh hour there.
I am therefore glad that the European Conference has concerned itself with this subject, although the outcome was inadequate.
