Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as a Christian Democrat and member of the Group of the European People's Party I naturally welcome the report which has been presented by Mr Desama and Mr Malerba because like my colleague Mr Ferber I too perceive that it contains elements from our contributions in committee.
Of course, I also welcome the excellent collaboration which has taken place with the Commission, in this case with Mrs Cresson, Mr Bangemann and Mr Kinnock, on the subject of guidance systems
I believe that the small interest groups to be found in this House - here in this Chamber, in the Intergroup on space travel and also in the space-travel Task Force, which has been formed from the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy - will develop into a major movement, and that the fascination which emanates from space travel will, I hope, attract greater attention both within this House and indeed from the wider public outside.
On the way home this evening you have only to gaze at the clear, starry night sky and at the wondrous full moon to be convinced of the fascination of our universe.
Unfortunately we are meeting here in a windowless room and cannot appreciate the magnificence of it all.
I do not want to repeat what has already been said.
It has all been said already.
I believe that the most important issue for the future - to be dealt with in the next report, which has already been submitted (and of which I am the rapporteur) - namely the position of the European aviation and space industries, will provide us with answers to the global challenges we have to meet.
How big should our factories be?
What should we be manufacturing in them?
What sort of businesses do we need as Europeans in order to remain competitive in the global marketplace?
I think we should point out clearly that in future the development of guidance systems and aircraft navigation systems, which have already been touched on, and the work of successor organizations to GLONASS and GPS, will constitute a valuable contribution from the European Commission.
We eagerly await an action plan which will allow us to make a start on these projects this very year.
Let me close with the following remarks.
Mention has been made of the problem of space debris.
In this context, we really should find a European scrap materials company capable of dealing with the problem of orbiting scrap, and we should also raise a warning finger to the various attempts being made by a number of people to have their own ashes scattered on the moon.
Moon-dust is strange enough on its own without being further altered by the addition of the cremated remains of human beings.
I do not want to see our moon becoming the favourite stamping ground of Mr Malerba.
I really believe that this particular subject merits our attention.
