Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the people of Europe need cleaner air, and I think that the Commission's proposals on air pollutants are splendid.
They are a major step forward.
Anyone who comes from a country which has very strict threshold values cannot expect all the countries of the European Union to fall into line overnight.
We have to set more modest targets and be grateful for any gradual progress made.
However, I hope that you will permit me to offer three observations from an Austrian point of view.
Firstly, in relation to Article 8 on informing the public, I would like to offer a few basic observations.
According to the Commission's proposal, information is to be regularly passed on to relevant organizations.
Experience in Austria over many years has shown that it is not necessary to have an active system for passing on this information.
While there may be a keen appetite for it at the beginning, interest soon tends to fall off.
In Austria, information of this kind can be obtained at any time by teletext, Internet, telephone or fax and, since everyone now has access to one of these information channels, it is proposed that this information should not be actively transmitted but simply made available.
As far as the threshold for sulphur dioxide is concerned, a one-hour limit value of 350 micrograms has been set, which is derived from the WHO's 10-minute average value of 500 micrograms.
Austrian experience has shown, however, that the proposed one-hour threshold cannot guarantee compliance with the 10-minute average value.
We propose that the one-hour threshold should be set at 250 micrograms in order to achieve the right correlation.
As regards nitrogen oxides, it has to be said that, although an alarm threshold is a wonderful idea, a value of 800 micrograms is really much too high, Madam Commissioner.
We propose that this value should be lowered to 400 micrograms.
Even if these proposals cannot be adopted immediately, I would still hope that in due course all European countries will be able to comply with these Austrian limits.
