Mr President, Mr Commissioner, the starting point for our discussion are the negotiations with Switzerland.
Switzerland has taken the view that by not joining the European Union it can remain in a sort of happy isolation.
Switzerland can see that it is in an isolated position.
However, I would like to reject most adamantly part of what has been said here today - by Mr Ferber and previously - and that is that this is the behaviour of robber barons, of highway robbers.
As has already been said, Switzerland has a very specific, highly comprehensible traffic and environmental policy.
However, Switzerland must also fit into the overall European picture.
There's no way around it.
Secondly: Obviously the basic characteristics of the landscape are a given.
It may be the case that other landscapes are worth protecting.
But that shouldn't stop us giving special protection to this special landscape and to the special situation of the populations in the narrow valleys, whether they be in Switzerland, Austria, France or Italy,
Thirdly: The European Union has a set of traffic policy principles.
Some speakers appear to have forgotten this.
I would reject absolutely accepting the principle of the shortest route, which I otherwise support, without mentioning that there are also other principles, that we have environmentally friendly and environment-oriented traffic, that it is indeed a matter of external costs.
It is not that we want to pass the external costs on to lorries without justification, but rather that the external costs only arose in the first place due to the excessive number of lorries.
The step-by-step transfer of traffic from road to rail is the founding principle of European traffic policy.
And in the interests of our environment and our population we must deviate not from it.
However, we must understand that, as a result, we need to find a way of incorporating Switzerland into an overall concept, that the diverting of traffic which is currently taking place - and represents some 30 % to 40 % of the traffic in my home country of Austria, especially in the Tirol - where it still exists and has not already been transferred to rail, must be stopped.
Our goal must obviously be a general reduction in the level of traffic on the roads.
But this goal cannot be achieved by simply blocking off one country and diverting the traffic into others.
In Europe, at the end of this century, it must surely be possible to create a genuinely common traffic policy.
So, where are the policies which the Commission, the Parliament and the Council should be following?
I should also say that I would not lay all the blame at the door of the Commission.
The Parliament too was very circumspect in making it last resolutions and in general terms agrees completely with what Commissioner Kinnock said.
There are certain countries which are represented in the Council and exert more resistance there.
Firstly: The aim must be, step-by-step, to reintegrate Switzerland into an all-European traffic policy shaped by the EU, and to do this as quickly as possible!
Secondly: No traffic should be diverted.
Thirdly: Wherever necessary diverted traffic must be returned to original routes.
Fourthly: No single country in the EU should be placed in a worse position than Switzerland in terms of the levying of charges, tolls, etc.
We accept the fact that charges have to be levied, that there is place for the toll and that it fulfils a control function.
But it must be clear that a country outside the EU cannot be afforded more opportunities than the countries within the EU.
If these principles are observed it must surely be possible to create a reasonable European traffic policy and to use the instruments available, including the toll, to create an environment- and therefore people-oriented traffic policy for the whole of Europe.
