Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as chairman of the committee responsible, I must first inform you that the committee decided by a small majority to bring the Murphy report in this form to a sitting of the European Parliament.
I therefore do not speak as the committee chairman, but as a member of the Group of the European People's Party, and as such I support the proposal to refer this report back to the committee.
Why?
It has been my opinion for many years that we as the European Parliament can in future no longer afford to pass technical legislation by means of hundreds of amendments.
Since Maastricht, we have had co-decision in these matters.
The new directives are no longer directives of the Council alone, but directives of the European Parliament and of the Council.
As Parliament, in the case of this legislation, we can contribute to ensuring that the protection of the health and safety of citizens and of disadvantaged people is taken into account.
That is extremely important.
We have always done it successfully in the past.
But what we need here are not 112 technical amendments, which none of those present understands and about which no-one knows what interests lie behind the individual amendments.
We need one amendment which states that buses must be designed which are suitable for the disabled.
The execution of this legislative instruction of the European Parliament is then the responsibility of the technical bodies.
(Applause) This is called the legislative procedure of reference to technical standards, which I have always supported and which must always be the way in which we operate in future.
For this reason, I personally would be happy if it was possible to discuss it again in the committee, so that we can find a sensible solution in this matter.
I will now make a personal declaration: If this proposal is not referred back to the committee, I shall stay here, but I shall not take part in the vote.
I ask that this should be minuted, because as a parliamentarian I am not prepared to cooperate in this nonsensical kind of legislation.
(Applause)
