Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner - the ministerial conference in Geneva could not, of course, answer all the many open questions concerning sensible ongoing development for the WTO.
I am thinking of adherence to social standards and the reduction of adverse impact on the environment due to manufacturing, as well as involvement in the current negotiations on multilateral investment accords of developing countries not actually represented in the OECD.
A corresponding WTO code of conduct for multi-national firms would thus be worth advocating.
Such a code would give clarity, providing international terms of reference.
In order to permit the undisputed benefits of world-wide trade to become a tangible reality to as many people as possible - not only shareholders and big companies - we must continue to work intensively, within the framework of the WTO, with the consequences and by-products of world trade as they affect national distribution of prosperity.
If this is not tackled, free trade will be discredited altogether and the advances in prosperity achieved thus far through the WTO will melt away.
However, one positive outcome of the WTO ministerial conference is that, in the face of increasing uncertainty among international economic players as a result of the crisis in Asia, it confirmed the need to keep the multilateral liberalization of world trade on course.
Nevertheless, this liberalization is not an end in itself.
As the ministerial declaration stated, it must benefit all concerned.
Unfortunately, that is not yet strictly speaking the case, because, at the end of the day, the undertakings made at the Singapore summit and reiterated at the 1997 high level meeting in Geneva - to facilitate market access for the least developed countries - must be put into practice by all WTO members.
The EU has taken a step in the right direction by harmonizing market access conditions to include those non-ACP nations that are among the world's least developed countries.
Of course, the least developed countries must take action themselves to drive world market integration and internal growth forward step by step through economic diversification.
In many cases, this necessitates new thinking on the part of those in positions of leadership; that has to be stated clearly.
Today, the balance of payments in many developing countries is weighted not only by debt, as addressed in the ministerial declaration, but also by other factors, for example, keeping to traditional energy imports.
Thus, for example, we need to build up genuine cooperation between the EU and developing countries in the energy sector in order to give developing countries and third countries alike the possibility of developing their own alternative energy production under their own steam.
The House has already addressed this in detail earlier this evening in a different context.
All in all, I would like to use this report as an opportunity to point out that the European Parliament needs to make its voice heard more audibly regarding the future of world trade policy if it is to follow government cooperation more critically in this area; in terms of employment policy, this is very important.
It is my impression that at the national level, this area tends to get lost in the slipstream of debate on domestic policy.
Sir Leon Brittan, we really appreciate that you yourself have always been prepared to appear before the Committee on External Economic Relations to report on current development in the WTO.
However, what we need is formal Parliamentary participation in WTO matters; we particularly need written annual reports on the activities of the Commission in this area.
That would be very much appreciated.
