Madam President, Commissioner, you yourself are also responsible for information, amongst other things.
You will therefore not be surprised when I tell you that I have not found the thread running through the labyrinth of comitology in the statements - which have indeed been produced with some effort - but that this term still, in my view, represents a kind of magic square for our citizens, who are unable to see through it.
When numbers are mentioned here, it must be said that the practice currently followed in what are estimated to be several hundred management and regulatory committees, consisting of representatives of the Member States and placed alongside the Commission to implement legal acts, has led to an unjustifiable mixture of legislative and executive functions and removed the classic separation of powers in the EU's system, and indeed done so in an unreliable way.
This does not just involve codecision, but also programmes in the field of external relations, for example, which are also controlled above a certain ceiling by these management committees.
We are not so concerned about Parliament intervening in the executive, but rather that the Council is intervening much more strongly in the executive authority of the Commission, and in an unacceptable way.
I think the Commission and Parliament really must try to obtain a form of control, as you have just pointed out, but for which the information available to us is actually insufficient.
Our citizens will be questioning us on transparency, clear responsibilities and democratisation in the next few months before the European elections.
Then we shall have to answer for you, rather than for your officials or indeed those of the Council.
This is where the root of the matter lies.
We are therefore very interested in the conclusion of a sensible interinstitutional agreement which sets out these elements with much greater force.
In this respect, we fully support the line taken in Mrs Aglietta's report, in all its complexity.
