Mr President, there is no doubt that the Malerba report is a good one, and well written.
Nevertheless, I must express some reservations about its whole orientation and also about some speakers' contributions to this discussion.
I very much value what Sir Leon Brittain has done, because I know he has endeavoured somehow or other to achieve a situation in which we can create a reasonably tolerable community with the USA in this particular area.
It is therefore a very valuable attempt.
Nonetheless I have to say that there are many signs that this attempt cannot be very successful, for a simple reason: the Americans are certainly our friends.
We owe them a great deal of gratitude.
But on the other hand, it cannot continue to be the case forever that one power asserts itself in the economic area, imagining itself to be outside international practices and laws, and intervening where it has no business to do so.
I would particularly like to refer to what is implemented time and again by means of extraterritorial legislation.
The way in which US industrial interests repeatedly manage to find loopholes - the very thing with which the Japanese are reproached - verges on the brilliant.
They do this so that in practice they do not have to keep to what they have committed themselves to in writing.
This situation arises particularly in the matter of international legislation.
I would like for example to mention here a fact which undoubtedly affects our trade: I refer to the new US measures under which sporting events that take place in Europe can no longer be shown on television because they display advertising for drinks such as wine and other alcoholic beverages.
That has a very great effect on our interests.
That eliminates us from competition in advance.
I believe we should be clear about one thing here - and I would like to endorse Mr Souchet's remarks, although I do not share his views on all matters.
Unfortunately the Americans have a strong Government that knows what it wants and has laid down a political line, and we still do not have a real decisionmaking body to guide foreign policy for us.
If we did, we would be much better off!
