Mr President.
I should like to congratulate Mr Lange and Mrs Hautala on their reports.
I am not at all surprised to see so many Members jumping for joy today, but I do not wish to mark my agreement in such unqualified terms, because from an institutional point of view, I do not believe that this procedure was such a breakthrough.
Mr Bowe has just given me a cue, which means that I will have to restructure my whole speech.
You just said that the oil industry has announced today that it has had the fuels we are demanding for the years 2000 and 2005 for a long time.
This is the whole point.
Unfortunately, people forget all too often that, if a car is to produce clean exhaust emissions, it has to run on high-quality fuel.
That is exactly what we did not manage to achieve in the Conciliation Committee, because the committee was under pressure of time.
It should all have come under consideration on 28 June; it had something to do with the Council presidency, and of course we were happy to do our bit to bolster a Council presidency.
It was a shame, because it would have allowed us to show those responsible for fuels in the Commission that we were prepared to take them on.
We would have been able to show the lobbyists that something which they had thought was completely impossible at the time - I put that on record at the reading here - was actually possible.
You admitted as much as soon as the meeting of the Conciliation Committee was over.
We in Parliament all showed weakness in this regard.
That should not happen again.
The oil industry is experiencing difficulties, not because of European standards, but because of structural problems and many other factors.
I do believe, however, that we have taken a step forward.
There are 200 million motor vehicles in Europe, and my group is firmly in favour of mobility, in contrast to the Green Members.
They would prefer to abolish mobility.
That is the prerequisite of this single market: mobility of persons, goods, products and services.
And because this is what we want, we need highquality fuels, so that we have clean engines and clean exhaust emissions.
There have been some improvements.
On-board diagnostic systems have in no way resulted in car bonnets being locked electronically, as we had feared.
This would have prevented medium-sized businesses from carrying out repairs.
I am glad that the testing procedures have been improved.
I am glad that medium-sized businesses will, in many cases, have access to this market.
All in all, the battle is won, but in the future we must show a greater willingness to take on those who are working with us on this European project, so that we can be even more successful for the sake of our children, because they need a healthy environment.
