Mr President, it seems that we do not have "the same procedure as last year' , to coin a phrase.
The rapporteur has done very well and for that I offer her my sincere thanks.
The motion for resolution includes an early mention of the national constitutional courts.
I would like - and I hope that I am proceeding along the same lines as you here - to say something about the Federal Constitutional Court, which has a constitutional appeal pending in respect of the euro.
The Federal Constitutional Court must know what it is doing.
It may be plunging the European Union into a deep political crisis from which the EU may never recover.
But it must know what it is doing.
Let me just single out one of the many practical examples mentioned by the rapporteur, namely the control procedure and the role of the citizen.
I wholeheartedly support the initiative of the citizens' representative and of the rapporteur that, should this control procedure result in a negative decision by the Commission, then this decision must be substantiated.
This has something to do with democracy.
I have followed the midday debate on whether Commissioners or officials are now politicians, civil servants or whatever, with a certain amusement.
From the outside the situation looks somewhat different.
Allow me to quote from a recent edition of the Süddeutsche Zeitung , which states: "It is certainly true that without the expert knowledge and diligence of the civil servants in Brussels a century project like the euro would never materialize, because it would be talked to death for years.
It is not true that one of these civil servants will have to take some sort of responsibility if the experiment fails.
One obviously hopes that they have the sense of responsibility which Max Weber demands from politicians, but they are not responsible for their work, they just have to carry it out.'
The western inventors of democracy certainly did not conceive it thus.
It matters that we should establish this public openness between the Commission and its citizens, and for that reason I am particularly thankful for this part of the report.
While I am talking about the basics, let me quote from a very old text which, though penned more than 200 years ago, is still relevant today.
It was written in 1795 by Imanuel Kant on the subject of eternal peace and goes as follows: "All deeds which relate to the rights of other men, and whose maxim is not compatible with publicity, are wrongful.'
This maxim, Kant goes on to say, is one which I may not divulge without at the same time thwarting my own intention, which itself must be kept absolutely secret if it is to succeed and to which I cannot publicly admit, without provoking inevitable opposition from everyone to my design; such a maxim can only have its origins in injustice and therefore constitutes a threat to us all.
My appeal to the Commission is therefore as follows: Please take this matter very seriously.
Something which is not founded on injustice can be made public, can be made accessible to public discussion, can be opened up to public debate.
This establishes trust rather than secrecy.
