Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this evening's debate is concerned with citizenship of the Union.
We all know what that means and what a key role citizenship of the Union occupies for the citizens of Europe, and above all in European integration.
But I wonder if people in Europe actually know about this?
Do the very people whose rights are associated with citizenship of the Union know this?
Do they know to whom they can turn, whom they can ask and where they can obtain information?
In the course of many conversations with ordinary citizens, I have repeatedly had the feeling that people only have a sketchy idea and precious little knowledge about this.
However, it is not only our citizens who know very little about this.
For example, take a look at the information issued by the European Commission, which often does not deal with certain areas at all.
For instance, we were recently sent a brochure, the Single Market Review, which contains over 38 reports describing how the internal market is being implemented in practice.
Yet this brochure contains next to nothing about freedom of movement.
When I see that, I wonder how our citizens are actually supposed to be informed!
Another example: when I mention to officials in the Commission or Parliament or even outside that as a citizen of the Union with a Dutch passport I have a seat in the European Parliament for Germany, I always get asked: how is that allowed?
Where does it say that?
How is that possible?
This demonstrates that even the right to vote and to stand for election, to the extent that it must be in the Treaty, is something we have not really grasped.
Nor has it really been grasped by the people who decreed it or by our citizens or by my colleagues.
Many of my colleagues have not actually realized this yet either.
I think it is important that we ourselves should take on board citizenship of the Union, with everything that it implies, and give it serious thought.
We will then be better placed to inform people about it, so that people really understand it too.
