Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely for the excellent work he has done and to congratulate him on it.
The Commission's proposal on support for combined transport takes account of the fact that the European Union needs a reliable trans-European transport system to guarantee efficient trade and also mobility.
I therefore deeply regret that the Council has only accepted a small number of Parliament's proposals.
This would be a perfect opportunity to act instead of just talking for once.
As I have already said, I think it is a matter for regret that in its common position the Council has not seen fit also to give priority to projects which create links with the central and eastern European countries and thus achieve synergies.
Likewise, in selecting projects the Commission should try to strike a balance between regions and Member States, so as to avoid distortions in competition.
Parliament accepted this point at first reading and it has now been confirmed in the amendment tabled by Mr Jarzembowski on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party.
I urge the House to support this amendment too.
I would also like to mention that it is essential to integrate trans-European 'rail freight freeways' for the sake of environmentally sound development and to utilize trans-European transport networks.
I see these freeways as a particularly important and innovatory aspect of the transport policy.
Regrettable is not a strong enough word for the budget, which the Council has set at just ECU 35 million.
Appropriations of at least ECU 43 million are required for the period from 1997 to 2001, if, as has already been said, we want action and not just words.
A budget of this level should therefore be approved, even if I still think this is only a drop in the ocean.
I believe it is vital to develop the European Union's transport system, particularly in view of enlargement and the everincreasing significance of environmental issues.
I therefore support the amendments tabled, as do all the Members of my group, and I hope that they will also enjoy the support of the House.
