Mr President, Madam President of the Council, representatives of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, as the PPE Group coordinator for Asian affairs, I should like to confine my remarks to the financial crisis in Asia.
Let me emphasise that the reasons for the Asian financial crisis are indeed manifold and that each country's problem therefore has to be addressed in a different way.
In Japan, the main issue is still whether the Japanese can overcome the banking crisis.
Only if they manage to do that will they stand any real chance of pulling out of recession.
All parties in Japan are now called upon to get to serious grips with this legislation and not to be mutually obstructive, which will only serve to plunge Japan and all of us into serious difficulties.
In other countries such as Indonesia it is not just a matter of banking systems but of the entire economic order.
But without social and political reforms, countries like Indonesia cannot succeed in solving either of these problems.
Moreover, we also have the urgent task now of saving sections of the population from undernourishment and famine.
We welcome the fact that the People's Republic of China has not devalued its currency, but we must also ensure that this situation does not lead to upheavals in trade relations.
In China too, economic and political reforms are needed.
All in all, we must look at each individual country in order to assess how progress can best be made.
We Europeans can and must help to overcome the crisis, but what some speakers have said about Russia I should like to extend to Asia, namely that the key to the resolution of the crisis lies in these countries.
It is up to the government and parliament of each country to overcome the crisis.
We can only help.
The critical pressure for reform must develop in these countries.
They must not seek salvation in the short-term solution of protectionist measures against trade and the movement of capital - quite the contrary.
The uncontrolled banking system, the intransigent web of economic collusion, the corruption, the absence of a market economy embedded in social justice and the lack of democratic pluralism in these countries must be overcome, and that has to be done by these nations themselves.
