Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say first of all that I find it extraordinarily regrettable that Commissioner Marín has already left the House.
In any case, he was here for the commentary.
He could easily be here and speak in somewhat greater detail in a final speech on certain humanitarian measures and suchlike; I very much regret that he did not feel that this was necessary.
On the other hand, I am of course very happy that the discussion is being held here today, since it is simply high time that we in Europe speak with one voice - I am very happy, Commissioner Marín, that you are again with us -, that we speak with one voice on a subject that has already been described by CNN as the "showdown in the Gulf' .
I sometimes wish that this one voice were rather more harmonious and somewhat louder.
Nevertheless, it is good that it is actually happening.
I am also sure that many colleagues present yesterday saw two things on television which were interesting: on the one hand, the permanent members of the Security Council dispatching Secretary General, Kofi Annan, and the good advice which he has taken with him; and on the other hand, the speech which President Bill Clinton made to officers in the Pentagon, in which he very clearly threatened Saddam Hussein.
We must be clear on one point: the journey of this Secretary General must undoubtedly not turn into a flop like the one made by the Secretary General in 1991, which was practically the introduction to the Gulf War.
I can only hope that lessons were learned from these mistakes.
We should also make our opinion clear in the sense that only on the basis of clear concessions can we really exhaust all diplomatic possibilities of preventing this war.
However, we must make quite clear our attitude to those states which are using biological weapons.
Here I would point out that Iraq itself has anthrax at its disposal as its main weapon.
Anyone who has observed in our own continent the effects of anthrax over 50 years ago in Scotland on Anthrax Island, understands that it is really necessary for us to speak with one voice here, because we cannot foresee these effects, nor do we want to foresee them.
