Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the European Parliament has always spoken out clearly against human cloning, arguing not only on purely technical grounds, but also on issues of principle.
Therefore we are not in favour of a moratorium on human cloning, but rather a general ban.
I also believe that everyone at this plenary session is united behind this demand.
But what is human cloning?
That is the question addressed by the previous speaker and which we must now define.
On this subject, too, the EP has always taken a very clear position.
Both in the vote on the Patent Guidelines in June and within the context of the Fifth Research Framework Programme in December we found a clear definition.
The Legal Committee and the Research Committee have both dealt with these matters intensively and in the Research Committee this issue was the subject of a unanimous vote when all others were hotly disputed.
I believe it is very important that we continue to hold this position.
And this is why the EVP has included amendment 8.
Banning human cloning, for example, does not mean banning work on human cells designed to make skin transplants possible.
It does mean, however, that both cloned babies and the production of human embryos for use as spare parts for organ transplants must be outlawed.
For this reason we are very shocked by amendment 1 proposed by Mr Bowe, Mr Monfils and others which rules out cloning for the purposes of reproduction only.
This could mean, however, that a situation in which one produced a human embryo or, taking the interpretation a stage further, a baby without a brain, cloned it and then used if not for reproduction but as a supply of spare parts for organs, this would clearly not be excluded.
We must be very clear here.
The Council of Europe's Monday Clone Protocol expressly omits any reference to reproductive clones and is therefore further-reaching than the demand which has just been detailed.
As such, it represents a good step in the right direction.
In conclusion, we must nevertheless ensure that this clone protocol is not open to misinterpretation, like the dangerous image, for example, drawn by the President of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, and it is for this reason that we have submitted Amendment No 9 to close any backdoor routes.
