Mr President, going from ECU 25 million to ECU 75 million is a major achievement.
This is all down to Mrs Pack and at this point let me thank her most sincerely for her successful efforts.
As part of the debate on the eastwards enlargement of the EU we must be careful to ensure that these new member countries also have access to the European education programmes.
But this cannot be done without the financial means.
One of the most important points concerns the preparation of the countries in question and the creation of a solid basis for universal education and vocational training.
I am sure that their involvement in the Community programmes will have a positive effect on the participants and that this represents an excellent basis for preparing for membership.
How else should young people better learn about democracy than in an exchange with other young people in Europe?
And I am in no way excluding Turkey from these considerations.
Here too, participation in the various programmes will help young people greatly increase their understanding of the democratic processes and I would very much welcome the opportunity to resume this debate in the coming months with my report to the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, where I am hoping for support.
Now I am anxious to know how the programmes are progressing.
We will have to carry out a census in order to identify and retain those which are successful.
Admittedly some aspects deserve criticism, such as the amount spent on application procedures.
I also hope that we can count on increased resources for adult education purposes.
Lifelong learning is now more important than ever and we must continue to impress this on the national consciousness.
The 1996 European Year of Lifelong Learning has already proved successful and it would be logical to follow this up by launching projects within the Socrates and Leonardo programmes.
Finally, let me say how much I welcome the increasing emphasis being placed on quality assurance in Socrates.
I hope that the Council will support Parliament in its efforts to set up a European network.
