Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the control of smoking in Europe is undoubtedly one of the greatest challenges that we face.
This is something which we should all become involved in.
My colleague said just now that we were again discussing the ban on tobacco advertising six years after our first efforts in this area.
Well, I would like to inform him that, as budget rapporteur, I have tried six times in the last six years to cut ECU 2bn from the tobacco subsidies in this budget, which is an area in which we do have appropriate powers.
I have never been so isolated in this House - not even now - as when I was seeking support for this idea.
And when I was trying to change the system of tobacco subsidies, I got precious little support from those who have been making grand speeches on the subject here today.
No, not everyone, but the majority!
Ladies and gentlemen, every day we spend ECU 5m on subsidizing European tobacco which not a single person in Europe wants to smoke!
And then they have the nerve to sell this tobacco outside Europe, notably in the Third World.
In the same breath, we are raising tobacco taxes from the citizens of Europe - 20bn alone in my own country, for example!
And then we think we can simply decide not to accept advertising for this product.
I once talked this over with my children, who are aged between 13 and 20.
They simply could not understand this behaviour.
That is why I think this report is tackling the problem the wrong way.
We all agree about the objectives.
What is more, we all have the same fears, including me.
But if we are to pursue our objectives, then we shall have to adopt a different approach.
What does indirect advertising, by way of a Benelux news agency, have in common with a tobacco firm in Europe?
Can we really ban indirect advertising so easily?
I do not believe that it will be as simple as this.
If it were not to go beyond tobacco, then I would understand this approach.
But, Mr Flynn, you demonstrated the domino effect some while ago, because the next directive on banning car advertising has been lying in your office for quite a while.
We shall soon be discussing the subject of alcohol, and so on, and so on.
I believe that we must take a more global approach to this subject.
If we really want to tackle the problem, this proposal is too simple in its structure.
We need a concerted campaign to give real protection to our young people, to change our consciousness, to make real progress in reducing subsidies.
And we need a standard of behaviour towards non-smokers.
Of course we need this.
I get the impression that there are many people who believe that they can make progress by throwing the baby - and a cleanly-washed baby at that - out with the bathwater.
But in doing this they would not even be washing their own hands of the matter!
