Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Desama's report illustrates the different approach to space travel on either side of the Atlantic.
The number of employees in this sector alone - 200 000 in the USA as compared with about 40 000 in Europe - tells its own story.
The growth of the commercial sector in Europe is certainly impressive.
But technological advance and the development of new activities in the field of space research will certainly not be financed by the commercial sector.
We can be absolutely sure of that.
I support the idea that European space policy should be regarded in its entirety, something which is advocated in the report.
I wish to emphasize that science and the technology of manned space travel are of vital importance, and we should not merely restrict ourselves to their commercial applications.
It is therefore essential that the Fifth Framework Programme should focus on the funding of space research for the benefit of the information society, earth observation and navigation.
The British or Austrian Presidency could demonstrate its receptiveness to the technological development of Europe by convening a separate meeting of the European Council, in addition to that of the ESA-Council of Ministers, in order to discuss the theme of a European space policy, as recommended by the rapporteur.
The urgent need for European industry to improve its competitiveness makes space policy a compulsory subject for the European Council.
Earth observation is particularly important in this respect.
When employed in a responsible manner, this activity will stand our citizens in good stead.
It is a science which guarantees progress in many areas, including environmental research.
The need for intensive public funding is therefore obvious.
It would be foolish to think that earth observation will sooner or later be nothing more than a commercial operation.
Here Europe is on the point of losing out to the United States.
The European Union must therefore not slacken its pace but must rather make earth observation a key part of its space research policy and to this effect should devise and submit a well thought out action programme.
