Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard a lot of words, and we shall hear a lot more this morning and this afternoon.
This Parliament's Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs and its Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy have done some excellent work in recent years.
The insight shown by the chairmen has always made it easy for us to deal with representatives from the financial sector, those with an interest in policy affecting finance and also with associations, including consumer associations, trade associations, and so on.
The information we have acquired is exemplary by the standards of this Parliament, and the general accessibility of today's debate is important if it is to lead to positive decision-making by the middle of this year.
I think we can allay people's fears here.
There is nothing to be gained by frightening people, either by what we say here today or through the attempts of the professors in Germany to frustrate the introduction of the euro.
What we say and do today must serve to build up trust.
We have four reports before us.
The report on the euro and world markets and the Ruffolo report have become highly relevant because of the turmoil in south-east Asia.
I believe that we must press for a further, more thoroughgoing debate on monetary, interest-rate and subsidy policy in the context of the world economy.
It is in our hands what we do here in the European Union, and must do because of the Maastricht Treaties, and we do it gladly.
Developments in south-east Asia have affected our labour market and competitive situation for years, and trends there in subsidy, low interest and monetary policy have cost a great many jobs.
We have not paid enough attention to this topic, and now we are deeply involved, as we are having to pump massive amounts of money into those markets - both from Europe and via the IMF - in order to avoid even greater turmoil, if that is possible now.
Quite a lot has already been said about the Pérez Royo report.
Werner Langen made it very clear in his speech what consumers want and the respect we should have for their wishes.
But he was equally clear - and I am sure Mrs Thyssen will support him in this - about the steps we must take to inform our citizens.
It is important that with 50 % state participation and the options open to Member States over the next three years, they should make dual pricing clear now.
I also consider it highly important, as stressed in the Pérez Royo report, that standard quality paper and printing should be used to reassure consumers that there is a minimal risk of counterfeit banknotes.
This a serious issue on which we can ask for action.
