Mr President, must we remain loyal to our single market principles come what may, or are we interested in people as well?
Come to the North Sea spa of Cuxhaven, where I come from, which attracts a lot of visitors, not least because of duty-free.
Speak to those who will lose their jobs, according to the shipping lines.
We do not have any other jobs.
We are fighting for our fishing industry and have just one small shipyard left.
The hinterland is rural, arable farmland and pasture, without many SMEs.
All in all it is a rural area experiencing difficulties, soon to be without 5b status or the new Objective II status, Mr Monti.
Agenda 2000 does not provide any security.
The unemployment rate where I live on the North Sea coast is 11 % and rising.
The position is the same in other areas along Europe's 80 000 km coastline.
You can see that the problem is not local.
We are in it up to our necks, though we are working on solutions for the future.
Our long-term goals are lively networks of small and medium-sized harbours, coastal management, protection of salt marshes, the sustained establishment of maritime information and technology systems and attractive tourist resorts.
These could be implemented successfully by the coastal states, if Europe helps them.
We are counting on this.
Our future depends on it.
We are currently expanding our harbour in Cuxhaven, with EU assistance, but you, the opponents of duty-free sales, are blocking the entrance.
A harbour without ships is like a sea without fish.
The symbiotic relationship between the coast and inland areas, between economically weak and economically strong areas, has been successful with duty-free, though seldom sufficiently so.
The volume of business has increased rapidly since 1991 and with it the number of jobs.
Not even a modern economic programme such as the trans-European network has yet provided such economic and social cooperation.
I know it will take a miracle to overturn the Council decision, but I do not belong to the Council.
I represent the people.
What am I supposed to tell the families who are hit by job losses?
I do not think that anyone in Europe can be insensitive enough to wilfully destroy these achievements.
The cost of unemployment benefit and restructuring projects will far exceed the tax revenues lost on duty-free sales, and no fiscal harmonization is in sight anyway.
I therefore demand further examinations of the regional effects.
Perhaps there is also a legal interpretation which permits an exemption, as there was for sea travel to Heligoland, the jewel of the North Sea.
The Transport Council has decided this in the meantime.
I would like to ask you, Mr Monti, and those Members who oppose duty-free sales, to follow this route.
