Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for my country the transit agreement between Austria and the EU was a central prerequisite for entry into the EU.
The people of Austria attached great hopes to this agreement.
Hopes of an end to ecological destruction.
Hopes of an end to health damage caused by excessively high noise and air emissions.
But, encouraged by the Austrian government, the Austrian people also hoped that this agreement might lead to a rethink on ecological issues in the European Union, that this agreement might provide the trigger for a new, sustained traffic policy.
Just a few years later we have come to realise that in hoping these hopes millions of people in our country failed to reckon with the Commission.
Millions of Swiss have done the same and voted to changed their law in a referendum.
These two countries represent models of modern traffic policy, not obstacles to it.
The Commission on the other hand is not a model of modern traffic policy in Europe, but an obstacle.
It is still entangled in the interests of the transport lobby.
It remains fixed on the idea of an uncontrolled division of labour across borders into which it has failed to factor the costs in terms of either health or ecology of this traffic madness.
Mr Ferber has now left the room.
If he were still here I would have explained the basics of this problem to him once and for all.
For the Alps are not an artificial barrier which some environmentalist or politician in his foolishness has planted in the midst of the internal market, but a natural barrier in a highly sensitive ecological region.
At the time the Commission promised much in its negotiations on transit traffic.
None, I repeat none, of which has been realised to date.
The Commission is taking legal action against Austria over the level of its toll charges, although they comply with the Commission's Green Paper.
It is delaying recognition of the inclusion of external costs.
It has made no attempt to implement the Alps Convention.
What we see here is the almost pseudo-religious worshipping of an internal market without regard to the human principles of life and health.
