Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Amsterdam Treaty constitutes a significant step on the road to the democratization of the European Union, and our journey down this road must continue.
The Intergovernmental Conference has agreed that the common institutions should use every means to improve their functioning without any change in the Treaties.
There is room for manoeuvre and the Herman report suggests various themes which we think are of prime importance.
Firstly, economic and monetary union.
The future president of the ECB has ensured us that he is willing to hold regular quarterly meetings to exchange ideas.
We emphatically welcome this readiness for dialogue, but it is something which should not just depend on the goodwill of whoever is in charge at the ECB.
That is why we want an interinstitutional agreement - one which also incorporates Parliament's participation in the procedures for coordinating EU economic policy.
Secondly, Parliament continues to play a weak role, both in the area of foreign trade and payments policy, and in competition policy.
The current information procedures are in need of improvement.
The details of this should also be decided by interinstitutional agreements.
Thirdly, employment and social policy.
The fight against unemployment and the development of the European social model are priority issues, the importance of which is also confirmed by the Amsterdam Treaty.
The latter makes Parliament an equal legislator in many areas of social policy.
But there is a yawning gap in the democratic process where agreements between the social partners at European level are to be implemented by Council decisions.
The fact that there are no plans to involve Parliament is in stark contradiction to the principle that legislative actions always require Parliamentary legitimation.
Such a process must now be established, at least on an informal basis, and this is something which also requires an interinstitutional agreement.
After all, as we know, it is still true to say that more democratization in Europe logically means more reforms.
