Mr President, even if your criticisms were correct, Mr Gollnisch, it would still make sense to save energy.
By so doing, we save our resources and reduce our dependence on imports.
At the end of the day, whether the climatologists are right or not is a scientific issue, and not something that can be decided in a parliament.
Here, it is more a question of taking precautionary measures.
For the first time, we politicians are faced with a very plausible-sounding hypothesis, to which we have to react, and if we do not react, then we might make the biggest mistake ever made by humanity.
That is why I think it is good that there is, after all, a relatively broad consensus in Europe in favour of reducing greenhouse gases.
Now I should like to address a few remarks to the Commission.
It was a good speech, Commissioner, congratulations, and I also believe that you meant what you said.
However, in the end, it is not the success of our speeches that will be measured, but that of our policy instruments.
We will measure to see whether we really have emitted fewer greenhouse gases or not.
And that is where I have my doubts.
Because what we are trying to do in Europe is to stabilise in an unstable situation.
Take the transport sector, for example: cars are improving, but there are more cars, and in a few years' time, CO2 emissions from cars will presumably be much higher than they are today, even though each car is consuming a little less.
Households have not seen any change at all.
Household appliances are certainly improving, that is true, but households are increasing, both in size and number, because families are becoming smaller.
You can check up on all of this.
The Commission has carried out its own investigations and has described all this itself.
I am only referring to your own data.
This means that we have to go much further than the commitments made in our papers at present.
We have to translate them into practical policy.
That quickly brings us to the question - not of recognising the issues, we are all agreed on those - but of funding.
How do we finance technology, which is of course often available, in such a way that it will be used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions?
In my experience, at least, this raises just one question: how to fund long- or medium-term programmes.
We are in a position to finance the Channel Tunnel, in such a way that those putting in the money only see a return on it in umpteen years' time.
Why are we not able to prefinance improvements to our buildings in Europe, thus saving huge amounts of energy?
It would be worth it!
Even with low energy prices, we are obviously not in a position to do this.
We have often made lofty declarations on renewable sources of energy too, but I still do not know how that is supposed to work.
You have my support on this, but how can it be done, given the low energy prices we have at present and the rightly criticised lack of an energy tax?
Ecological tax reform is a sine qua non for changing the course of energy policy.
Finally, a piece of advice for Buenos Aires.
In Kyoto, the fact that the American representatives presented a united front proved to work very much to their advantage.
Would it not be possible for the Europeans to form a single team, comprising national and European members of Parliament and the Commission, and to present a united front in Buenos Aires?
After all, our views are, to a large extent, the same.
But we could play a much greater role there if we were more organised.
That is a plea to Parliament, but also to the Commission.
