Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, for some months now - and in some cases for the past eight years - we have literally been begging the Community to do something!
But the Council talks and talks, with very little too show for it.
It can never find its way to actually act.
We have just heard again today that working parties have been set up in Belgrade.
Nobody is quite sure what their purpose is, or who indeed their members are.
As you said, the situation down there has to improve.
That sounds all well and good, but how is it to improve?
What are we Europeans actually doing?
Just think back to the flight ban that two colleagues and the Commissioner just mentioned, which was decided in Cardiff in July.
It is now September!
It has not been implemented yet.
That is ridiculous!
It is quite inexplicable to anyone.
Madam President, I believe it was your boss who said that our foreign policy is like a bus with 15 drivers!
Each wants to drive at a different speed.
Some even want to change direction, while Milosevic sits there looking on and laughing at our antics.
For this not only harms the suffering people of Kosovo; it also damages the reputation of our Union among its citizens.
How long can a criminal head of state go on unscrupulously and with impunity even denying his citizens humanitarian aid?
Sixty per cent of the 50 000 or 70 000 refugees trying to subsist in the open in the forests of Kosovo are children!
They need food, drinking water and blankets.
They are beginning to die of typhoid, while we look on and say the situation has to improve!
This cannot be true!
The Serbian Government and the West are calling on the refugees to return to their villages.
But what does that mean?
It means they go back to the villages that Mr Milosevic has razed to the ground.
Is that where they are supposed to go back to?
Where are they supposed to go in these villages?
Who is to keep them safe?
The situation has to improve!
Madam Presidentin-Office, this is not your fault, but we only have you to talk to here.
So I believe we must realise that Milosevic planned this attack on civilians.
The KLA is a by-product that suits him well because it allows him to say that he is dealing with terrorists.
He planned this attack on civilians, children and women and indeed carried it out.
We cannot send these people back home without guaranteeing their safety.
Let us finally turn to deeds; appeals will get us nowhere!
You too have made many appeals today.
And you know a great deal about the situation; but that does not interest Milosevic at all.
He has not kept a single promise in Kosovo.
Do you believe he will keep this promise?
Mr Milosevic's language is the language of force!
So let us finally address him in his own language.
Only then is there a chance of finding a negotiated political solution.
Unfortunately I have no time to discuss Albania now, but perhaps one of my colleagues will do so and perhaps you can tell me the name of this nice special envoy who is perhaps now to achieve something in Albania.
