Mr President, I am not pleading for border changes either.
I would like to make it quite clear that much of what has been said here is historically and legally incorrect.
If what Mr Ephremedis has said were true, then today the Ottoman Crescent would still be fluttering over the Acropolis.
We must be quite clear that there have always been changes, throughout history, and that under current international law peaceful changes are quite permissible.
In 1878, exactly 120 years ago, in Prizrem in present day Kosovo the Albanians founded the Prizrem League in a bid to reassert themselves as the oldest civilized nation in Europe in the face of the crimes of the Ottoman Empire.
At the Berlin Congress, which documented the failure of the Europe of the day, they were simply swept under the carpet.
Their right of self determination and their very existence were ignored.
They were not discovered again until the Balkan wars, when they became useful as pawns in a game of chess.
That is how the borders we are discussing today were fixed, and so Mr Cohn-Bendit is right.
We must make sure that the regime in Serbia changes and that Mr Milosevic disappears, because it is impossible to persuade a family in which several members have been murdered to carry on living under the same roof as the murderer.
It is a quite absurd idea and one which could only have taken shape in the mind of a politician or a bureaucrat.
I must say this quite unequivocally.
We must see things as they really are.
People are being systematically murdered and expelled and it has been happening for eight years.
The situation has indeed deteriorated now, but this campaign against the majority population in Kosovo has been going on for eight years.
If Mrs van Bladel keeps saying that our first priority must be to counter the resistance movement in Kosovo - and I myself am no supporter of violence either - I must remind her that having turned our backs on Mr Rugova and his peaceful resistance for many years it is now somewhat hypocritical of us to attack people who are simply trying to save their own lives.
