Mr President, what is going on?
In 1994, i.e. four years ago, the Commission presented a proposal which pays greater regard to road safety in general and the social legislation for long-distance drivers in particular, namely through the introduction of a new tachograph, because the current one is considered too easy to tamper with.
Actually the matter is quite simple.
All those affected, be it drivers, trade unions, haulage firms or the road users I interviewed, are in favour of an improvement.
This improvement was presented to us by the Commission in its very sensible proposal of July 1994, but then Parliament wanted more.
At first reading in the summer of 1995 Parliament did not just vote for a piece of equipment which is less easy to manipulate, but also for the development of a super black box involving an extensive infrastructure with the firms and inspection authorities.
Global fleet management was to be a vision no longer.
It was two years later - in 1997 - that the Council's common position was presented to us.
This is inadequate in many respects.
I ask you and the Council how it can come about that, in the final analysis, the Council has only voted on the super black box and not simultaneously on the satisfactory, cost-effective, sound, feasible and acceptable solution proposed by Parliament.
Who is hiding something here and why?
When I first heard about the Council's decision, I thought I was dreaming, and I still hope that this is all a mistake and that tomorrow this blunder will not be endorsed by Parliament as well.
I am in favour of a modern, technologically assisted transport safety system, but each businessman should be able to decide for himself in this free market of ours, whether he wants a superbox or the equally attractive, so-called improved solution.
The entrepreneur ultimately knows best what costs he and his business can sustain.
If the common position of the Council becomes a reality tomorrow, then the previous tamper-prone tachograph and the new superbox, which still has not been clearly defined and examined for its legal force - the old and the new equipment therefore - will exist for ten years or more side by side.
Neither have anything in common.
On the contrary, an incentive will be given for a driver to transfer from the old vehicle to the new because he knows that the two types of recording equipment cannot be compared with each other and that he cannot be prosecuted for failing to observe the proper driving and rest periods.
If the Council has voted 14: 1 against the more sensible solution, but in favour of the superbox, this means that there is no wish to achieve increased control and hence improved road safety.
Or how do you see things, ladies and gentlemen?
I hope that our vote tomorrow will not turn into a nightmare and that we will vote as at first reading, because I think like you, Mr Wijsenbeek, 1A and 1B are the correct solution.
