Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for the European Union the spring of 1998 is of crucial significance.
The course is now being set for the third stage of economic and monetary union.
Central features of this are the question of the group of participants, the fixing of the exchange rates between the participating Member States and the personnel heading the European Central Bank.
On 25th March the European Commission and the European Monetary Institute will submit their reports on which Member States fulfil the stability criteria on the basis of the statistical data then available.
The deliberations of the European Parliament and the parliaments of the Member States will subsequently commence in April.
In Germany the Bundestag and the Bundesrat, and probably various regional assemblies as well, will submit their comments.
So in this sense April of this year is the month of the parliaments.
At its meeting on 1st May, on a Friday, after the bourses have closed, the Council of Ministers for Economic Affairs and Finance will adopt a resolution on its recommendation as to which Member States should belong to the smaller grouping of the monetary union .
In the morning of the following day, 2nd May, a Saturday, the European Parliament will give its opinion on this proposal at a special sitting.
This special sitting of the European Parliament is necessary because the Treaty expressly prescribes that the Parliament must render an opinion on the Council's proposal.
The final decision on the group of participants will then be taken in the afternoon of the same day at the meeting of the Heads of State and of Government of the European Union.
Consequently, on the evening of 2nd May it will finally be certain which Member States belong to the smaller grouping of participants in monetary union .
However, the schedule for monetary union also envisages two further resolutions being adopted over this weekend.
On the one hand this involves the final fixing of the exchange rates between the currencies of the participating Member States, and on the other hand determination of the identity of the President of the Central Bank.
Therefore the finance ministers, whose activities are as we know not subject to entertainment tax, will probably meet again on Sunday, 3rd May in order to finally determine the bilateral exchange rates and to submit a proposal on the personnel for the managing board of the European Central Bank.
Since the Maastricht Treaty the European Parliament has been directly involved in personnel decisions relating to the appointment of the President, Vice-President and the other members of the managing board of the European Central Bank.
The Maastricht Treaty granted Parliament these rights, which were formulated according to the prototype of comparable rights of the Senate of the United States and which have no prototypes in the parliamentary tradition of Europe.
The procedure for the appointment of members of the managing board is precisely laid down: proposal by the Council, opinion of the European Parliament and finally the decision by the Heads of State and of Government of the countries belonging to the smaller grouping of the monetary union .
The envisaged hearing of the candidates will take place within the relevant committee of the European Parliament during the week from 11th to 14th May, and the European Parliament will probably put its opinion to the vote on 14th May.
The Heads of State and of Government of the participating countries will then make their final decision.
This means that the managing board of the European Central Bank will be in place at the conclusion of the British Presidency and that the Central Bank will be able, as envisaged, to begin its work in the second half of the year.
This week four German professors appealed to the Federal Constitutional Court against monetary union with the objective of at least postponing it if not completely abandoning it.
Constitutional experts have ascertained that the media interest in this legal action is inversely proportional to its prospects of success.
The Federal Constitutional Court will merely have to examine whether the entry criteria, as contained in the Maastricht Treaty and the appurtenant Protocols, are fulfilled.
In this connection it has expressly allowed the institutions of the European Union scope to assess, evaluate and forecast the situation.
The German Federal Constitutional Court could only make a negative decision about Germany's participation in the monetary union if the Heads of State and of Government were to be in violation of the Maastricht Treaty in their decision about the participating countries.
However, since all participating parties are determined to adhere to the Treaty in all its details, we need not be troubled by such legal actions; they will not be successful.
