Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the opportunity which the Eurodac System will afford us in terms of fighting the current abuse of the asylum application system, for a great number of reasons, must be welcomed.
If it should be possible, through the use of fingerprinting systems and the storage of fingerprints to prevent multiple applications, irrespective of the reasons for which they are: on social, economic or family grounds, because people do not want to stay in one place and decide to make an application somewhere else, that is OK.
But time and time again we restrict these debates which we are having on the right of asylum here today to technical debates.
We did it yesterday, and we are doing it again this morning.
Let us ask ourselves the question once and for all: Why is it that we are obliged to talk about a Eurodac system at all?
Why, as soon as the discussion turns to asylum, do we always concentrate on abuses of the right of asylum in a criminal context?
Mr Pirker, for eleven years I have been the Mayor of a German town which lies on the Dutch and Belgian borders.
The town of which I am Mayor has the highest percentage of refugees from the Bosnian civil war.
Most of them came to my town from Srebrenica und Gorazde.
We took them in and then we had to beg them to declare themselves asylum seekers because Germany does not recognise a right of asylum for refugees from civil wars.
In Germany there is no legal basis for refugees from civil war.
I have begged these people to claim asylum, though they say they are not victims of political persecution, but are fleeing from a civil war and want to return to their country when the civil war is over.
Which is just what they have been doing since the Dayton Agreement!
I was forced to ask them to consider themselves as asylum seekers, which meant that they were forced to stay in my town.
If they had gone anywhere else, which would have made me for one very happy since it would have meant a little respite for my finances, someone like Mr Pirker would have come along and said: Just a minute, Eurodac, fingerprinting system for asylum seekers, you can't go there!
With this small example, I am trying to illustrate the fact that the European Union's refugee policy needs to be a combination of various different areas of policy.
For time and time again we face a situation in which people say: I want to emigrate to the European Union.
It is possible, in theory.
It might not be advisable because of the great defensive front, but if someone wants to emigrate he is allowed to in principle and so we need to create an appropriate new legal base.
We do not have one.
There is no European immigration law, there are no national immigration laws.
We force people who want to migrate here to assume the status of an asylum seeker.
That is the danger we ourselves are creating for the right of asylum!
In the European Union we always adopt the same approach: we deny the fact that Europe is a continent which attracts immigrants, even though it is due to the poverty gap for which we are in part responsible, in particular the difference in poverty levels between the north and the south as well as between the west and the east, along with the lack of willingness on the part of some EU Member States to share their wealth.
This will be shown very clearly in the remainder of the debate.
Naturally, our wealth has a magnetic effect on the poorer regions which surround us.
The answer to the problem cannot be defence, it must lie in control, and particularly in three interlinking areas of the law: immigration quotas, clear rules for the acceptance of refugees from civil wars needing temporary protection and, finally, the core of political persecution which is then no longer a problem.
And even then you don't need Eurodac!
If you think that you can solve the problem at the inter-state level, colleagues in the PPE, let me tell you today: Forget it!
You have created the European Economic Area, you have created a de facto EU state, but now you want to continue the process, focusing on specifics, dissected for want of long-needed progress in terms of harmonization.
If we do not remove this disfunctionality, Europe will fail its own citizens as a result of this imbalance.
You should be a little more harmonization-friendly in matters of integration, not just in matters of defence.
