Madam President, I am particularly pleased that the Algerian delegation is here today and, like you, Madam President, I hope that the meeting bears fruit, that we gradually improve the relationship between Europe and Algeria, and that the Austrian presidency will be able to contribute to this progress.
But first I will turn to the subject of Kosovo: Mr President of the Council, you have spoken of the huge loss of power by Rugova.
This should not surprise us.
That is not your fault personally, but Mrs Pack and many others here have often spoken - and the Commissioner, whom I would particularly like to welcome here, knows this - of the fact that the European Union must do more to support the peace-loving forces.
So far, I must say in all honesty, it has done little to nothing.
We share the blame if the democratic and peace-loving forces are weakened.
We must state this quite clearly in full knowledge of the facts.
I am very glad, on behalf of my group too, that at last - in accordance with the wishes of this Parliament - we are more strongly represented as Europeans and I am also glad that this is happening under the Austrian presidency.
My second point concerns the political objective, because there are already different opinions on this in this house.
Let us, however, make clear to everyone what our political objective is, even in the case of possible intervention.
Because General Norman has stated this quite clearly recently.
He was also prepared to intervene if necessary on the part of NATO and only wanted to know the political objective.
The political objective must be the autonomy of Kosovo - and I fully admit you are right here - in a democratic Yugoslavia.
If, however, we set ourselves another objective or other objectives, some in favour of autonomy and some for independence, then we know that we will face the next problems with independence.
In Macedonia, or, as it is known here in official jargon, in the FYROM and also in Albania itself.
We should not be drawn into this game.
We must stand up for autonomy and indeed also for a corresponding democratic system in Yugoslavia.
I am very glad about all the efforts, especially through the talks with Russia, to bring the United Nations onto our side or to bring them to the stage of approving the appropriate intervention should it prove necessary, which I hope it never does.
But I will say quite openly in my total solidarity or identification with the aims of the United Nations, that the Albanian population must know that Europe must never tolerate the slaughter of this people, the withdrawal of their basis for life.
Every effort must be made to achieve a peaceful settlement; every effort must be made to persuade the United Nations to issue an approval, if intervention is necessary.
But we must remain perfectly clear that we are not only fighting for the autonomy of the Albanian people, but we are fighting at the moment for the right of the Albanian people to survive.
What happened in Bosnia must not happen to us again, otherwise we will completely lose all credibility.
If we are in favour of a common foreign and security policy, then we must prove now that we are capable of carrying it out to the end.
