Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are delighted to see that you have arrived safely, Commissioner.
Like the previous speaker, I would like to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Cornelissen, on his excellent report.
He has put an enormous amount of work into it.
We appreciate his commitment to road safety, which has spanned several decades.
So it is perhaps no wonder that he was asked to be rapporteur and that he has produced such a first-rate report.
However, as it would be monotonous if we all agreed on everything, I shall highlight a problem: the Commission's communication on promoting road safety in 1997-2001 contains 65 proposals, and many of the proposals have to be presented by 1998/99.
So my first request to you, Commissioner, is to speed up all the individual proposals.
You know as well as I do that nothing will happen after spring next year.
We will go on the election trail and Commission will either retire or seek reselection.
This means that anything urgent must have a first reading in Parliament by autumn at the latest.
Otherwise the proposals will just gather dust for two years until the Parliament and the Commission are up and running again.
For that reason, Commissioner, I would urge you to encourage your people to present the individual proposals to Parliament and the Council as quickly as possible.
Secondly, I would like to know if you support the list of priorities set by the rapporteur, and probably by this House when we vote tomorrow.
Mr Cornelissen has quite rightly said that it is no good presenting 65 proposals if they are only implemented in a trickle.
We need to have a substantial body of priority projects adopted to improve road safety.
That is why we are so interested to know if you really support Mr Cornelissen's list of priorities, which we will no doubt vote for tomorrow, and if you are ready to pledge your support to them.
I would also like to address a few points that my group considers urgent, as well as two or three points in the report that we will reject.
We think it is important, as Mr Watts has so rightly explained, to make the car a safer means of transport, because can kill and injure people.
Secondly, the majority of my group firmly supports European legislation reducing the legal alcohol limit to 0.5 mg/ml.
We absolutely must jump this hurdle.
In November 1993 we agreed in the Maastricht Treaty that measures can be adopted by the Parliament and Council.
I believe that measures to combat drink-driving are crucial and that we should act jointly in this area.
My third point is this: I think it is important to establish a European penalty point register or at least agree to this step.
In some countries drink-driving is viewed as a trifling offence that your friends in the pub will virtually congratulate you on.
So we must not just set an alcohol limit but also ensure that by maintaining a Europe-wide penalty point register and by enforcing penalties, we can change people's attitude and behaviour.
I want to mention two other points that we cannot vote for.
In my view, the requirement for daytime running lights for cars and not just motorbikes cannot be justified throughout the Community.
It may be appropriate in Scandinavia because the light is different there, but what is the point of having car lights on in Spain during the summer?
We should respect the principle of subsidiarity and take account of varying weather conditions in the Community before we adopt such fundamental regulations.
My last point is a curious one.
I think it is unreasonable to call for a ban on selling alcohol at all service stations.
Yes, we need to target drivers themselves, but it would be excessive to punish bus passengers who want the odd beer at a service station by banning alcohol there, and we do not want that!
