Mr President, ladies and gentlemen and the British Presidency of the Council, I pondered for a long time yesterday evening about what comes to mind when I think about the British Presidency, and then suddenly there it was in my head, and especially in my gut: rock-'n'-roll.
The cry for justice, democracy, freedom and solidarity, the imaginative escape from the old fug.
That is what rock-'n'-roll is for me.
Tony Blair's message is that time is on my side , and so talking about my generation, Mr Cook, I agree with you and you make us reflect on everything this Europe of ours needs on its long and winding road , because Europe is sick.
Its health will certainly not be restored by a ratification of its condition or by accepting and tolerating that condition.
Europe is sick, and the European ideal is becoming weaker because there is a feeling that combined efforts are being made to undermine it.
Europe once stood for freedom and peace, but now the opening of its borders is seen as a danger and 2 000 Kurdish refugees are seen as a threat to order and security.
Yes, Mr Cook, I agree with you: the divisions must be overcome, instead of setting up new barriers.
Europe is sick.
Ecological destruction is spreading, and it is not only the forests which are wasting away.
Europe is sick.
It is suffering from mass unemployment and a policy which talks about stability but is only concerned about money, a policy which is geared towards the euro but not towards European men and women.
Democracy resides in the endeavour for equal opportunity, social justice, tolerance, protection and help for the weak.
European democracy is in a sorry state when 30 million people are without work.
People who are made social outcasts.
People whose social decline increasingly excludes them from participating in society and politics and abandons them to their fate.
People whose experience is a life of poverty and lack of prospects from childhood onwards.
Those people need more than words.
Words are all I have to take your heart away .
That is not enough for those people!
Because people have to know why they are supposed to want Europe in the first place, what is needed is a clear future perspective for the Europeanization of policies, in order to tackle problems which cannot be solved nationally on a European level.
People do not live on money alone.
They need work so they can earn money.
They need equal opportunities to get work.
They need dignity so they can believe they have an opportunity in the first place.
Social justice is not everything, but without social justice Europe is nothing!
This must be the agenda for the British Presidency.
For Europe as well as at home.
Let no one say this is outmoded or that it cannot be done.
France and the selfconfident movement of the unemployed prove the opposite.
You cannot always get what you want.
But if you try, sometimes you may find that you get what you need!
The EU will only become a union of all its citizens if it also becomes a social and environmental union which is committed to sustainability and based on democracy.
Democracy is not a vision.
Democracy is a matter of survival for this European Union.
Democracy based on the principle of participation, on equal rights for all people, on respect for fundamental and human rights, rights such as the right of asylum, which only make sense when their application is guaranteed rather than their abuse being complained of.
Democracy, that means transparency and openness, because behind closed doors principles become eroded.
But transparency and openness do not mean big brother is watching you in the offices of friendly governments, nor do they mean Europol in my private life.
We want an integrated Europe which is solidly established on a democratic, social and ecological Europe, and this is what the British Presidency must do.
We can work it out, we can work it out!
Life is very short and there is no time.
I promise you, I will ask you once again!
I thank the Stones, the Beatles and the Bee-Gees for helping me to write my speech!
