Mr President, the rapporteur has quite rightly presented the difficult relationships which can exist between foreign direct investments and industrial relocations.
He has also placed this theme in a much larger context and this is something which we in Parliament have often discussed when debating world trade in goods and services.
We cannot on the one hand move towards liberalization, globalization and the application of the full potential of modern transport and information technologies without, at the same time, advocating a regulatory system.
This applies just as readily to the European internal market, to trade and commerce, which is so important for us all, and indeed to the world market.
I think that given the current preoccupation for globalization, the connection between trade and direct investment is growing ever stronger, since business enterprises are now able to act globally, irrespective of whether they are multinationals, or whether they are large, small or medium in size.
It must be pointed out that direct investment is not the same thing as simply exporting goods or placing contracts, since it involves a long-term commitment on the part of the enterprise in question.
One is therefore entitled to ask more questions about the repercussions of direct investment projects than one would about the problems associated with trade and commerce.
This is also bound up with the issue of investment outflow, which can inhibit growth and negatively affect employment.
Fortunately one has to say that globalization has not yet taken such a hold on today's world as to create any real lopsidedness in the balance of investments.
Here in the European Union we can still see that we are an attractive investment area and that this will be enhanced by the introduction of the euro and the completion of the internal market.
From a European point of view this is without doubt something which will initially only affect specific branches and sectors of industry, or even individual companies, as far as their employment situation or level of economic activity is concerned.
But just how much more has to be done on our part?
As the rapporteur quite rightly pointed out, there is a need for additional controls, the introduction of social and environmental clauses and greater fairness in competition, but we can also complete the global integration of the economy, commerce and investment, and create jobs - including those making explosives -, by regulating the relationship which exists with private enterprise.
We not only need an international system to regulate competition but we must also have a code of conduct to control the increase in foreign production and the internationalization and globalization of the marketplace.
Finally, transnational groups have created world monopolies in some products; these transnationals not only control one third of all goods and services, but what is more, the one hundred largest of them are responsible for 16 % of total world employment.
I therefore consider it to be extremely important that we seek to prevent any restraint of competition and the setting up of monopolies, and that instead we introduce a code of conduct, together with regulations at both OECD and WTO level, to ensure that the net product of industry, as generated worldwide, and the increase in prosperity are not distributed in a one-sided way.
I believe that this important Sainjon report is a perspective and forward-looking document because the problems of employment and adaptation which face the industrial nations are quite clearly taking on a certain structure, and indeed these are addressed in the report, and also because it does not defend a new form of protectionism - but instead advocates a comprehensive opening-up of the market and the introduction of international controls.
We therefore simply have to support this report and make it a blueprint for the Commission and Council action which is needed at both European and international level.
