Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in 1995 we adopted a comprehensive Directive on food additives other than colours and sweeteners in the European Union.
With the common position, we are today debating the first major amendment to this directive.
The amending directive is required firstly because during the many years of deliberations on the 1995 Directive, not all additives or their use had been scientifically tested, and secondly, because technical uses have evolved in the intervening period.
Furthermore, particular conditions applying in the Member States, especially in the new Member States of Finland, Sweden and Austria, must be taken into account and, finally, a number of errors have crept into the full text of the 1995 Directive which this amendment is designed to correct.
It is true that the Parliament has put forward a number of amendments and the Council has now adopted some of them.
On behalf of my group, I can say that we are in agreement with the common position.
The amendments which have been proposed, in the main by the rapporteur in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, were adopted by a majority there; however, we cannot vote for them.
I should like to come back to the issue which was mentioned by Ms Breyer.
The objective was to ensure that as few food additives as possible were used, and preferably to reduce them further.
I have been involved in these discussions for twenty years and I have changed my political view to some extent.
I think that if we concentrate on very few food additives, these few additives will be used across the board.
I believe that we should not always consume the same additives, because this is the only way to ensure that health considerations are taken into account.
Furthermore, the issue of authorization should not be regulated to such an extent that everyone is compelled to use additives; however, we should ensure that if they are used, they should only be used to a limited extent.
As I said, they need not be used, but if additives are used, then the product must obviously be labelled accordingly, and that is what needs to be regulated here.
Awaking new fears about things which have traditionally been in existence in Member States is, in my view, unnecessary, for after all these additives have not caused any health problems and in any case the Committee was there to monitor this.
For this reason, my group and I are able to vote for the common position in its current form.
