Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all congratulations to Mrs Graenitz.
She has handled an extremely wide-reaching area very well, because it is clear that food law in the European Union has gained considerably in importance with the realization of the Single Market and the pursuit of an active consumer policy.
In view of the large number of regulations and amended provisions, as in relation to BSE, to say nothing of changed expectations, we cannot avoid thinking about simplifying and rationalizing food law, of reviewing the existing provisions.
Certain basic aims, I think, need to be taken as the starting point of the discussion.
All foods must be guaranteed to be both safe and harmless.
The consumers must be able to rely on foods being safe and harmless, and do so in the full knowledge that the diversity and quality of foods in the European regions has been preserved.
This involves both a healthy and competitive agriculture and food industry.
A few points about the key words 'simplification' and 'rationalization'.
It should be the obvious aim of European policy -and we have been fighting for this for some time now - to make European law clearer and easier to understand.
Inconsistencies need to be eliminated, and above all the comprehensibility of the legal text needs to be improved in the interest of consumers.
It is also a question of greater transparency for the citizen.
This is not anything new, but in the area of food law the creation of confidence is vital for people.
They need to understand what they read.
Hence a framework food directive is necessary here, which includes both a unified definition of central concepts and the regulation of the general principles governing food law in one outline text.
Let me quote a second example: the directive on the labelling of food has been in existence since 1979 and has been amended six times since then.
In addition, there is a wealth of special provisions that make reference to the labelling of individual foods, such as wine, fresh fruit and chocolate.
The subject of wine has already been addressed today, and I must say to you quite simply, Commissioner, that we are striving for another position to Mrs Flemming's, who is no longer here incidentally.
I do not find it proper that a Member of Parliament should not claim their vested right to codecision in this matter.
I think we need to agree that codecision applies to wine every bit as much as to chocolate and fruit.
That is the way to make progress.
