Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, every Council presidency is of course faced with the problem of being both able and required to promise a great deal.
I hope that you will be able to achieve as many as possible of the things that you have presented today.
You are dependent on other people's help.
In most cases, you can count on the support of the Group of the European Liberal Democrat and Reform Party in this House.
I would like to mention two points in particular.
The first is enlargement.
I would especially like a debate on the issue of the timing of enlargement.
I believe that there should be only one criterion for the admission of these applicant countries: as soon as these countries have implemented their democratic and human rights reforms, and as soon as they have made their economy capable of competing in the internal market, then they should have the right to accession.
They should not be denied this right until the Western Member States, who have a great lead, decide that their own economy is fit to face competition from the economic systems of our eastern neighbours, which have been weakened by decades of planned economy, when they decide that they are willing to be exposed to this competition.
That would be an absolute disgrace for Europe!
I expect the Austrian presidency to make it perfectly clear that these countries have the right of accession as soon as the requirements are met, and not just when it suits us!
Secondly, institutional reform got short shrift both in your speech today and also in your written programme.
Yes, there is a reference to the, as I see it, rather strange summit in October, which will not perhaps be pointless if the Heads of State or Government hold an exchange of views on subsidiarity and bringing Europe closer to its citizens, or even a quite general discussion on the future of Europe.
However, the initial pronouncements, the reasons for having the summit at all, bode ill.
The most powerful Heads of State or Government in the European Union probably intend to cut back the powers of the Commission and, in particular, the Commissioner responsible for competition, who takes his job very seriously.
I think it would be disastrous if that happened!
Small countries have only legal stability and the Treaty on their side.
The Commission is the guardian of the Treaties' observance.
So everything must be done to prevent this pruning of the Commission's authority in this central role; I hope that you will live up to your remarks today, and that you will succeed in this.
In any case, I believe that the Intergovernmental Conference or rather the institutional summit in Austria in October will only have one purpose, and that is to continue the work in which the Heads of State or Government so recently failed, by which I mean institutional reform under the Amsterdam Treaty.
The most important task here is to get over the blockade preventing further steps towards integration by abolishing the unanimity rule.
This is an area where the Council and the European Union in general cannot start thinking soon enough, and they should take advantage of the extraordinary summit in October.
Bringing Europe closer to its citizens means more democracy in the European Union, more Parliament and more democratic structures.
This is what institutional reform should aim to achieve, and I hope that you, too, will accept responsibility in this area.
I hope and expect that you will commit all your goodwill and your good intentions to achieving this, and I am convinced that you will!
(Applause)
