Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to offer sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his excellent report.
The Agreement presented here constitutes a renewed attempt by the two largest markets in the world - the two most important trade partners - to reach an accord where previously there have always been recurrent difficulties.
On behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I should like to say that we approve of this Agreement.
Admittedly, highhanded US behaviour ensures time and again that US legal regulations are applied in a way which is dubious under international law; Helms-Burton and D'Amato are just two examples of this.
In international competition law as well, people in Texas or elsewhere believe they can apply their own rules and do not have to take account of international law.
But none of that should prevent us from attempting, step by step, to persuade the people of the USA as a whole to enter into agreements which they can then comply with too.
Incidentally, I do not fully understand what the death penalty or insufficient development aid has to do with it.
If you look at the European budget lines in national Parliaments, you will see that development aid is being reduced bit by bit even where Socialists are in charge.
The pot should not call the kettle black.
High-handed US behaviour is one thing we must recognize.
However, we must also recognize that we and the Americans have jointly achieved a great deal in many areas.
If the USA and Europe had not stuck together, there would never have been any expansion of GATT-WTO.
We need to recognize the positive side as well from time to time, not always take a sledge-hammer to the Americans.
So our idea of competition law must gain international acceptance.
If the Americans and Europeans reach an accord, we shall have made a significant step forward.
That is why extension by means of a clear framework agreement is necessary, and that is being attempted here.
The Agreement itself is no more than a statement of political commitment.
As a consequence, however, the agreed trade rules will in any case lead to efforts being made to arrive at a rational outcome in cases of dispute, and this should be warmly welcomed.
That is why there is no need for a special, outstanding effort to give approval to this Agreement here.
With the Agreement, I am glad to say we are advancing into an area which is of decisive importance for the maintenance of a free world economy at a time of increasing globalization.
International cooperation in the area of competition will be one of the main tasks of foreign trade and investment at the start of the 21st century.
Globalization, as we all know, leads to world-wide competition.
Europe is part of this world-wide competition.
After the introduction of the euro, we shall play an even more significant role in international competition.
Our efforts to reach an accord must be all the greater.
The conclusion of the present Agreement is a step - albeit a small one - on the way to the comprehensive liberalization of all areas of transatlantic trade.
From my remarks you will see why the Group of the European People's Party gives its support, and I would ask Parliament to give its approval to this Agreement in its totality.
