Mr President, on behalf of my group may I very, very sincerely thank the rapporteur in his absence for his report and his continuing commitment to the SLIM initiative.
The SLIM initiative receives cross-group support in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights of this House and with minor exceptions is unopposed.
However technical and detailed the work in the context of the SLIM initiative may seem to be we must never lose sight of the fact that it is a matter of a central project for the acceptance of European Union amongst its citizens.
However great may be the enthusiasm for Europe, if daily life is determined, particularly for companies, by incomprehensible rules, innumerable statistical forms and complicated VAT procedures, then even the greatest enthusiasm will totter and fall into discontent and annoyance.
Apart from these problems of acceptance and the costs associated with the carrying out of many regulations - and often it is not Community regulations but actually national regulations - it must also be of some concern to us to guarantee and increase legal certainty is ensuring that legal requirements are comprehensible and enforceable.
Initiatives so far by the Commission are certainly welcome but go too slowly and not far enough.
I can therefore only support the rapporteur in his demand for the acceleration and extension of the process of simplifying the law and for the rapid implementation of the proposals drawn up by the SLIM teams.
A sphere which would be very suitable for many successes in this area would certainly be that of agriculture.
If however we complain about excessively complicated regulations we should not lose sight of the deeper reasons for them.
One of these causes is surely that in the European Council in many matters unanimity is required or when where it is not formally required the broadest possible agreement is sought.
In order to be fair to everybody or to as many people as possible exceptions to the exceptions and very hairsplitting adjustments must be laid down.
I also believe that in our capacity as the European Parliament and as law makers in matter we must take ourselves in hand and more often keep to the basic principle that "less is more' .
I would thus like to propose in conclusion that this Parliament creates an instrument whereby we can check whether we can frame our legislative proposals in simpler and more comprehensible terms.
