Mr President, the inappropriate use of European grant aid is doubly damaging, firstly for those in receipt of it, and secondly for those who are providing it.
In the case of the several hundreds of millions of ECU of TACIS resources for Ukraine referred to in the Hoff report, the damage is crucial.
In Ukraine, the objectives which are to be achieved with the help of European aid are not being achieved.
Much of what was planned, and is essential, remains undone.
For a significant part of the TACIS programme for Ukraine, namely the issue of nuclear safety, the gap between the "near' standstill in nuclear safety mentioned in the report and a "near' catastrophe is not too wide.
As for the European citizens whose money is being inappropriately spent here, they are justifiably displeased with the situation.
As a result Europe is losing credibility.
What are the failings which are listed so clearly and so impressively - unfortunately in the negative sense of the word - in the Hoff report?
What can, and must, be done to change things quickly?
Apart from the failings related to the recipient country, the rest of the catalogue of failings unfortunately reads exactly like the catalogue of failings for which the European institutions, and above all the Commission, have been reproached in other contexts on the same subject of grant aid for many years.
These include a lack of clear decision-making procedures, excessive scattering of resources across a range of small projects, excessive and technically counterproductive efforts to involve local partners, a lack of technical expertise within the Commission except in relation to the process itself, administrative overloading of the project manager, time-consuming bureaucratic procedures and, as we have already heard today, a lack of any proper European concept for a nuclear safety policy.
What do we have to do in order to remedy this situation?
SEM 2000 is one of the new slogans of the moment.
It stands for sound and efficient management .
Less is more.
It advocates a few clear goals with short implementation timespans, a sensible personnel structure, well managed and motivated staff, good coordination with all partners involved.
SEM - "sound and effective management' - yes please!
But not starting in the year 2000, starting now so that the two programmes which the European Union is offering to our neighbours in eastern Europe and beyond, TACIS and PHARE, can contribute to positive developments both in the immediate European vicinity and further afield, and so that the process of European integration can become a process which we will be able to regard with confidence in the years to come rather than having from the outset to worry about damage limitation.
