Mr President, the Economic and Financial Committee, which is to supersede the current Monetary Committee, strengthens the position of the Finance Council in relation to the EU's other Councils of Ministers.
It is worrying to me that not enough emphasis was placed on such things at Maastricht, that the role of the European Commission is thereby weakened and that in important processes for the coordination of finance policy the Commission does not propose but rather recommends.
Parliament must support calls for this situation to be changed when the time comes for the Treaty to be revised.
The EU must adopt a new approach to policy coordination.
The rapporteur is quite right in referring to this and the Economic and Financial Committee - and here I can only share your hopes and indeed your opinions - must also reflect this new approach to coordination.
I very much regret that the twin-track approach to the process of monetary union, as conceived by Giscard d'Estaing and Helmut Schmidt when the European exchange-rate mechanism was being set up, has not yet achieved its crowning moment, as it were.
At that time two committees were set up - the Monetary Committee and the Employment Committee.
The Monetary Committee was institutionalized and enshrined in treaty law, while the Employment Committee continued to live in its shadow.
This is not justified, given the dramatic policy development and the nil return in respect of European added value.
I therefore think that the problems of employment policy, economic policy and financial policy actually have to be seen as a whole.
I should like to recall that this Parliament, when it adopted the broad guidelines for economic policies last year, stressed that these guidelines must also take account of other considerations, particularly since the Ministers' decision on economic and finance policy has to be seen in connection with the budget debates in the national parliaments, which always take place in the autumn of each year.
The Economic and Financial Committee has an advisory role, yet it has become an institution.
Its function must accordingly be made more transparent and enforceable.
It is therefore correct to say that we need a monetary dialogue over and above the previous dialogue.
You know that for years Parliament has been carrying on a dialogue with the Monetary Committee via the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs.
This must also be extended to the Economic and Financial Committee, so that opinions on stability plans, on the avoidance of excessive deficit and other moves aimed at coordinating economic policy do not remain solely in the hands of monetary authorities and monetary advisory bodies, but that other parties are also included.
I still think that it is important to have a Jumbo Council every year.
The already paramount role of the Council of Finance Ministers, should not lead to a situation in which economic and employment policy is decided upon without input from the Ministers for Employment and Economic Affairs.
While the institutional structure of Monetary Union is all too clear, the decision-making processes for this Union are, by contrast, underdeveloped.
We need a fresh approach here, and the Berès report gives us renewed hope of this.
We probably even require an additional protocol to Article 103 of the Maastricht Treaty, so that in future we too become part of the real processes of negotiation and decision-making.
