Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, as many of the previous speakers have remarked, I too am obliged to describe the Cardiff Summit as something of a disappointment.
It squares with the overall image of Britain's presidency, which clearly started well, but then tailed off somewhat.
This means of course that the work involved for the Austrian presidency will be considerable.
Not least the informal special summit to be held in October of this year in Melk on the issues of transparency and subsidiarity must serve to ensure that a much-cited and almost as often misinterpreted concept like subsidiarity is finally given the correct substance.
Subsidiarity is neither an aid to self-help nor an exclusive relationship between the European Union and the Member States, but rather the political principle that the larger unit should never assume responsibilities which can be successfully dealt with by the smaller unit.
This also means, however, that policy areas such as foreign and security policy need to be established at European level so that they do not lead to inefficient fragmentation, and we now have the clear example of Kosovo, where more or less exactly the same mistakes have been made again as were made at the start of the civil war in Yugoslavia.
Unfortunately, the British presidency has made less progress on the issue of deregulation and de-bureaucratization, which had been heralded in numerous attractive brochures.
When I read in the President's concluding statements about a Union closer to the citizens, I ask myself why the Cardiff Summit has failed to implement sufficiently the European Parliament's report on information policy from May of this year.
For this called for an open information policy provided by common EU information offices instead of the previously separate offices for Commission and Parliament.
We need to press in Parliament for the unresolved, but nevertheless important issues to be implemented under the Austrian presidency.
Mr Nassauer has already dealt with security policy - this is a key issue because security policy needs to be one of the major aspects of the Union as a whole.
If security policy is not functioning, if the safety of the individual citizen is not guaranteed, then the other policies cannot really have any impact at economic and social levels.
