Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the suggestion of the European Parliament the Council has made a whole range of important improvements to the original European Commission text.
This is very welcome, for this is a very important matter.
However, there are two points I would like to raise which my group believes to be of particular importance and which are still missing from the text, although we introduced them at the first reading.
The first, Commissioner, relates to an ongoing dispute with you, and that is the issue of labelling in the broadest sense of the term.
It is imperative that the instructions for medical products to be used by individual members of the public be translated into the languages of the various Member States in which the products are to be marketed.
This is absolutely imperative since these products have to be used in a very precise way.
Faulty diagnoses which might result from incorrect use must be prevented at all costs, so it is vital that all possible sources of error are eliminated.
And this naturally includes making sure that the public can read, in their own language, the instructions on how to use these products and the consequences of using them incorrectly.
The second point I would like to raise here is, in fact, the last point which was discussed in the presence of Mr Pompidou.
In vitro diagnostics use very special materials, tissues, cells and other substances of human origin.
The nature of this material obviously requires that it be handled with particular care and particular precautions.
I am delighted that this option is available.
The amendment tabled by the Greens will provide a guarantee of data protection and guard against the type of discrimination which might result from knowledge which could be gained from these diagnostic methods and tests, in terms of the fundamental genetic characteristics and predispositions of the individuals involved.
For this reason it is very important indeed for us to make this improvement in this area.
