Madam President, it is a great comfort to me to learn that in the wake of the crisis an exceptional number of things which need to be done has occurred to us.
An analysis of the situation prior to the crisis reveals the comforting fact that we have already done a lot.
I ask that at the Summit in London, the causes which were recognized beforehand but about which nothing could be done should not be forgotten.
If we examine the causes of the crisis in detail, there is general agreement that the main problem was excessive balance of payments deficits in the various national economies in question, high levels of foreign debt, particularly in the private sector, encouraged by fixed exchange rate systems, the financing of unproductive sectors and many other factors.
What we are witnessing at the moment is everyone running scared, pulling out, even cutting lines of credit as is the case in Taiwan where the crisis is not actually as marked and where people should be holding their ground rather than pulling out.
Instead, however, capital is pouring out of the region and the politicians are offering good advice.
The good advice which the politicians must give for the future is a matter of concern for us as a parliament.
That is why we see this debate as just beginning.
I am grateful, Sir Leon - and I imagine the Presidency feels the same - that we are to continue this discussion here in the European Parliament and that we will speak about these events.
But, quite naturally, we are also extremely interested in the political relations between these Asian tigers who were until recently so puffed up with their own arrogance in certain areas that they could hardly walk and were giving us in Europe advice, and who, now that the crisis has happened, are turning to us for help.
Together we will have to learn that one of the causes of what has happened in Asia is the fact that many Europeans who could not invest their money quickly enough to make a quick profit, and were totally unperturbed by the risks involved, are now pulling out and in some instances leaving behind Asian countries in abject poverty.
May I remind you that it is not only the economy which has been damaged.
Socially we are faced with a retrograde step, with emergencies, with hundreds of thousands or even millions of people who trusted politics and the economy to do the right thing and who have had their existences snuffed out.
Hunger and poverty are rife.
I ask you, in London, to think too about how we can set up aid programmes to help these people.
Indonesia, currently with the fourth largest population in the world, is demonstrating that when difficulties arise it has little understanding of the need for greater democracy, but has its own view of how a transformation can be affected.
I wonder how the world will react to its failure to meet the IMF's requirements and its decision to go its own way.
Asia was already in a learning process when it was successful.
Now it is in a bitter learning process.
I shall watch with interest events in Asia and we will continue to discuss them in this House.
