Mr President, today's fisheries debate is the first we have had in the House without our friend Allan Macartney.
We extend our deepest sympathy to his family.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my congratulations to you, Mr Provan, on your excellent report.
It is analytical, critical and positive.
Our main problem in fisheries policy is the inefficient management of fish as a resource.
Despite all our efforts over the years, we have not succeeded in striking a sustainable balance between resource and allowable catch.
With some exceptions, practically all types of fish are subject to overfishing.
We have identified excess capacity in fishing fleets as the greatest obstacle to proper management of our waters.
We will have to wait and see whether MAP IV, the last multiannual guidance programme for the period 1997-2000, has solved this problem.
In the meantime, we must use other methods.
The European Community's control policy, for which Member States still have primary responsibility, plays a crucial role in the management of our waters, and for a long time this was the focus of our criticism.
In its report the European Commission identified existing weaknesses.
For example, there are problems in standardising the measurement of engine power between the Member States.
There is wide divergence between Member States in the way in which inspections at sea are implemented.
Member States do not comply with requirements concerning registration of landings.
The list is very much longer and would require more than the three minutes I have available, but what it boils down to is that we sometimes have the impression that the Member States do not comply with the requirements of a strict and consistent control policy.
From our delegation visits on the ground and from talks with the fishermen concerned in the Committee on Fisheries, we know that the fishermen feel they are treated extremely unfairly because they are treated differently from each other.
This is not a good basis.
We have always been of the opinion that a good control policy can exist only with the help of the producer, and Mr Provan emphasises this in his report.
I therefore support the proposals in the report to allow greater involvement of the fishing industry and producer organisations in control policy.
The report includes positive elements and also calls for the use of positive experiences from the past, for example experience which international fishing organisations such as NAFO recently had with controls.
In addition, the report provides further constructive ideas for an even more effective monitoring of the fisheries policy.
I would therefore ask you, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to approve this inspired report.
