Madam President, my group does not share the optimism with regard to the impact and benefits of gene technology.
We have major concerns with regard to the health of consumers and we have major concerns about the impact on the environment.
We hold the view that unlike the sphere of medicines, where possibly the side-effects of a product can be tolerated the sphere of food cannot tolerate any side effects.
As long as this is not guaranteed we must treat this technology with very great caution.
We do not share, Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert, the hopes you expressed with regard to feeding the world.
We must teach people how to run agriculture so that they have enough to eat.
The satisfying of people's hunger will, in my view, not come from the key industries of gene technology.
In the matter of factually accurate information, this is exactly what we require and our amendments are aimed at obtaining this factual information from science, but also from the Commission.
For example, science has always told us that genetechnologically modified organisms would not transmit further, not skip generations.
However, we do have the case of the herbicide resistance of rape, where the generation skip to a weed took place, and I find that this contradicts the certainty which is being dangled in front of us.
We therefore demand first and foremost that science must create certainty in this matter o that we can move into this risk technology.
There does remain a ray of hope: the Commission will accept Parliament's proposal and exclude the biosphere of gene technology.
We shall have a statutory regulation whereby bioproducts may not come into contact with gene technology.
That urgently requires precise labelling of the use of gene technological processes in food.
I look forward to the conflict between these two areas and the competition in the positive sense.
Then we shall see which foods will be accepted by the people and I think that in the long term the bioline will be the line which secures the feeding of the world.
