Mr President, Mr Vice-President of the Commission, this morning's news headlines ran as follows: "Palestinian in Jerusalem stabbed by Jewish extremists and bombing of southern Lebanon by Israeli air force with four civilians dead' .
Such is Mr Netanyahu's style of peace process.
Let us not deceive ourselves: the peace process between Israel and Palestine has reached a deadlock, if indeed it exists at all any more.
The Oslo Agreement, the foundation of this peace process, is no longer being respected by the Israeli government.
We must take note of this fact as it has a drastic effect on the whole EuroMediterranean Partnership.
At the beginning of the Partnership we tried to separate the Euro-Mediterranean Partnership from the peace process.
I hope that it is now clear to everyone that this is not possible.
If we want to make progress in the EuroMediterranean Partnership we must get involved in the so-called peace process.
Then, when Israel and Palestine are negotiating, we must have a say.
A second point which has concerned us recently, and which is also closely linked to the Barcelona process, is Algeria.
The European Parliament delegation has, as I see it, opened a door of dialogue with Algeria.
This Parliament now also sees many things in a new light, particularly as our colleagues who were there and who have presented us with a detailed report have now been able to correct a considerable degree of false information.
We must proceed resolutely down this path.
We must seek cooperation with our colleagues in the Algerian National Assembly and assist them in continuing the process of democratization in Algeria, which was begun successfully by means of the elections.
We cannot do much but we should be prepared to do what we actually can do, which is to help Algeria by taking on its concerns, by being prepared to work together with the Algerians, for example by fighting terrorism, not in Algeria but in our own States, in Europe.
So far we have been very negligent in this area and we have allowed terrorism to flourish here.
