Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, sulphur dioxide emissions represent a major problem in Europe.
For some regions this means damage to forests, for others it constitutes a threat to important historic monuments.
However, for us all it is a matter of the health of the people of Europe.
Measures have to be introduced in different areas.
One of the most important is undoubtedly a reduction in the sulphur content of vehicle fuels.
The Auto Oil Programme, in which Parliament has stated unambiguously what is required in terms of environmental policy, is currently at a difficult stage of conciliation with the Council.
Today's debate concerns an important supplement to the Auto Oil Programme and relates to certain fuels which in some respects constitute a considerable proportion of total SO2 emissions.
This applies particularly to heavy oils.
The threshold values advocated by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection will make it possible to improve the situation without making excessive demands of anyone.
This will be guaranteed primarily by the derogation provision which allows the sulphur limits to be exceeded in cases where SO2 pollution can be justified.
Nonetheless, the Commission's proposal needs to be modified in two respects.
The scope of the future directives should be extended to bunker oil and marine diesel.
In justifying its proposal, the Commission itself referred to the fact that we are dealing in this case with a significant source of emissions, especially in the area of the Baltic and parts of the North Sea.
However, it would be wrong simply to await the outcome of international negotiations.
It would be better for the European Union to exercise a degree of pressure by setting thresholds in its own area.
In my view, the same importance is attached to the question of what the legislative basis of the directive should be, that is to say Article 130s or 100a.
We all know that this is a question of law for which the European Court of Justice has developed clear criteria.
The Commission has put forward certain reasons for choosing Article 130.
I do not wish to comment on these reasons or go into details.
I would just say that, in the arguments in favour of Article 130s, there has so far been no discussion of why the directive from the Auto Oil Programme is based on Article 100a.
In this case we have the same conditions and the same legal basis.
Article 100a therefore applies here too.
