Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thanks are due to both our rapporteurs.
I have drafted quite a few reports in my time, but I have never before experienced such a good level of cooperation, producing work with such solid technical foundations, which has been presented in such a comradely spirit!
For more than two years, since the Commission tabled its draft directive, the introduction of clean fuels has been under discussion in Europe.
Parliament has given its views on two occasions, clearly stating what is at stake.
Clean fuels directly contribute to reducing air pollution.
Clean fuels allow modern technology to be used in car engines, which will likewise lead to a substantial reduction in fuel consumption.
It will be remembered that several people were rather unwilling to accept this, and obstinately declared during the course of the negotiations that Parliament's aspirations were unfeasible and far too expensive.
Today, it gives us great satisfaction to hear that several oil companies want to put new fuels on the market as early as the year 2000, fuels which meet the specifications of the 2005 standard as they stand following conciliation.
Obviously, the positive outcome of the conciliation is already bearing fruit, even before entering into force.
The result of the conciliation is a good one.
Above all, the Parliament delegation has managed to gain acceptance of two important proposals.
The specifications for the year 2005 are not mere indicative values; they are mandatory.
In addition, it is also possible to phase in more stringent specifications earlier and, as we have just heard, there are already plans to do so.
The fact that the Council presidencies vied with each other to announce the result of the conciliation can certainly be regarded in a positive light, but even so, this sort of thing should not happen again: if we run short of time, we should not allow some issues to be dropped from the agenda just for the sake of producing a result.
A proportion of 30 ppm of lubricant film in fuel is still a target we should be aiming for, and our specifying 50 ppm at this stage will certainly not delay the development of modern technologies.
That is the upper limit value, after all, and there is nothing to stop people providing better fuels.
The motor vehicle industry is now being asked to lead the way in reducing CO2 emissions in Europe.
That it should do so by means of a voluntary agreement is something which Parliament has already criticised on several occasions.
This is not so much because we are questioning whether the 120 g CO2 /km now on the table is sufficient - I think we can live with that - but because the whole procedure seems to me to be rather lacking in transparency.
We should be aware that such an agreement is replacing a proper legislative procedure, i.e. the adoption of a directive by codecision.
I am rather sceptical about whether this Europe-wide test of voluntary agreements will be successful in terms of CO2 reductions.
All those involved should realise what is at stake here.
If it became necessary to take fiscal measures to reach the targets we have agreed, then I would consider this method to have failed.
Even though we have the possibility of cooperating by adopting legislation on monitoring, we should make it clear that voluntary agreements of this kind should be the exception where the environment is concerned.
