Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, I would like to begin by congratulating you very warmly, Mr President-in-Office, on the statement you have just made on behalf of Austria, and to support you.
If you believe that you can achieve and adhere to everything that you have promised us here, then you will certainly have my group's support as well.
There are five points that I would like to single out, on areas where my group will be following the Austrian presidency with a particularly critical eye.
Of course there are also many other points that other speakers will raise.
First, I will look at the issue of security.
You quite rightly said that we find ourselves in an exceptionally difficult situation.
We need an extended security system in Europe, a true common foreign and security policy.
I hope that you will be able to make what you have described here a reality, and that will be able to make a decision about the long overdue institutional reforms in Vienna, so that we can make forward estimates and create an efficient security policy.
I shall return to the subject of Kosovo later.
However, I firmly believe that many things discussed within Austria in recent months - you know what I have in mind - should now be put to one side.
The message of the Austrian presidency should now be 'Yes, we must make progress in building a common European security system' .
I fully support what you said about the Mediterranean area, given that Austria, as a non-colonial power and in view of its friendly relations with that area, is especially well placed to make some headway.
My second point is enlargement, on which I have only a few words to say.
Here too, I would like to express my clear support for your comments.
We need to adopt a realistic course.
However, we cannot tolerate any interruption in the enlargement process.
I also hope that you can ensure that negotiations with our neighbouring countries will start.
Admittedly, that will be the easiest part, but we need to make some progress and to give a signal that although enlargement is a difficult process, it is one that nevertheless needs to be initiated now in the interests of Austria and all the Member States of the EU.
Thirdly, as regards Agenda 2000, no major decisions will, of course, be taken during the Austrian presidency.
But it was, after all, the Austrians who said that decisions need to be well prepared for.
The Austrian presidency will be judged by the quality of its preparatory work.
The reason for the rumours buzzing around Parliament over the last few days about a slight delay in the whole process is of course that there are a lot of people who would like to delay all kinds of things, perhaps even until after the election, because Agenda 2000 will have many painful consequences.
I would like to make my own and my group's position on this crystal clear: we want quick decisions!
I am assuming that Klaus Hänsch will have a lot more to say about this.
Our citizens need quick decisions.
The key points need to be prepared so well under the Austrian presidency that the relevant decisions can be taken without delay next year.
My fourth point concerns the citizens' Europe.
I also wish to give my clear support to your comments on this subject.
It is not a matter of weakening Europe.
I know that even some of your colleagues are keen - and I shall say it slowly in good Viennese - to get their own back on the Commission, because it interferes so much!
But the internal market has not been completed yet either, there is still a lot to be done there.
We need a common foreign and security policy, and that can only be a European foreign and security policy.
And of course it goes without saying that we also need to make further progress with employment and economic policy.
I am very much of the view that this House could delegate a great deal, because we go into too much detail on a lot of things.
I also firmly believe that the Council, right up to head of government level, should consider whether a little more transparency and openness would not be more people-friendly - and the Council is after all a quasi-parliamentary decision-making body.
My last point relates to employment, which is of course particularly important for us because of the appalling number of people out of work.
This will also be an important yardstick by which we social democrats will judge the Austrian presidency.
Can we expect to hear just platitudes and wishy-washy statements about the employment situation at the end of the year, or will you also address sensitive issues?
Even if you upset some countries, including your own maybe, we need clear statements!
We need to forge ahead with employment policy.
It is not the only way, but we really need to make progress on employment policy now.
Perhaps it would be interesting to check what decisions remain to be taken out of those specified in the Delors White Paper.
Mr President, I would like to conclude by stressing once again that if only 80 % of what the President-in-Office of the Council has presented to us today can be achieved, then you can certainly count on congratulations from my group at the end of the year, Mr President-in-Office!
