Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I find it difficult to talk about the European Parliament's budget today without referring to the striking confirmation in the most recent report from the Court of Auditors on the reimbursements and allowances which we receive as Members of the European Parliament.
That is why it shows no disrespect towards my colleague, Mr Viola, and his work if I emphasize that my group will support the report and its priorities and naturally the draft amendments as well, particularly as far as the Ombudsman is concerned, and I now devote my speaking time to the special report, especially since the budget of the Parliament will certainly pick up detailed proposals which emerge from the Court of Auditors' report, and Mr Viola will submit appropriate proposals to us, I have no doubt!
It is extremely regrettable that the President has rejected convening a conference of Presidents this afternoon and has resorted to formalities.
If the public rightly gets worked up about the unacceptable arrangements for reimbursement and insinuates that the Parliament has a self-service mentality, the President of this House should not hide behind provisions in the Rules of Procedure.
The right course of action would have been to go on the offensive, because we did after all request the Court of Auditors' report ourselves and because at bottom we knew of all the procedural gaps which we have now had confirmed.
Going on the offensive would also have meant in this case reducing the contradictory procedure to the minimum.
Why not 24 hours, because it could hardly be simpler to give an answer to the observations of the Court of Auditors.
The answer would be: "Agreed, that is how things are at present' , and "Agreed, that is how we want to change things in future' .
But can we rely on this President and this Bureau as far as a willingness to change is concerned?
I do have my doubts!
The working group set up by President Hänsch has come to nothing.
The investigation into the pension fund system has come to nothing.
The rationalization of travel costs calculations has more or less, well, actually come to nothing.
It might perhaps be best to entrust the report to the Committee for Budgetary Control.
I can assure you that we would work quickly and speedily!
