Madam President, the European Union will only carry any weight if it succeeds in growing beyond its achievements to date.
Here for the first time we have an opportunity to develop the Union on three institutions - the traditional European Community, the Economic and Monetary Union and the political union - freely, that is without extreme pressure from outside as was the case during the Cold War with its threat of nuclear strikes.
This requires a will - as outlined in the Maastricht Treaty - to create a common foreign and security policy and, step by step, a common defence policy.
This is enshrined in the Maastricht Treaty which the Austrian Presidency, aware of its responsibility in its forthcoming presidency of the Council, will soon ratify.
To date, both the common foreign and security policy and the foreign defence policy are rudimentary and vague, not to say non-existent.
This is highly unsatisfactory in view of the regional conflicts currently going on in Europe.
May I point out to the previous speaker that unfortunately security problems in Europe are not restricted to natural disasters.
Our dependence upon the will of the USA to intervene in crisis regions in Europe as a policing force within the framework of NATO not only illustrates the weaknesses of the current European position, it has also become an almost unbearable burden for the USA.
The current trend is for the US to withdraw from European trouble spots, leaving the EU with a still greater responsibility.
The Tindemans report therefore points the way to European independence in the narrower sense of defence policy.
It is therefore logical for Austria to support the complete integration of the Western European Union into the EU and to take part in the creation of a common European defence policy.
However, this cannot and should not take place in opposition to NATO.
Eleven out of fourteen of our EU partners wish to create a European security and defence identity within NATO.
The WEU depends on NATO capacities and NATO logistics in many respects.
The remit of the WEU and the NATO Partnership for Peace are largely similar.
Any unnecessary duplication of existing mechanisms should therefore be avoided.
What we need is solidarity and cooperation in building a common security and defence policy.
The enlargement processes both in the EU and in NATO should be seen in this light.
The Tindemans report forms a good basis from which the Council and the Commission can formulate policy in this area.
