Mr President, words are obviously very important things and words can be used either to emphasize something or to conceal it.
I would like to say something about the word "subsidiarity' .
This is a word which gives many of us problems.
In some respects it is difficult to pronounce, but it is clearly even more difficult to understand.
If you look it up in the dictionary, the definitions given suggest that what is involved is the principle of self-responsibility, whereby those above should only be called in, or intervene, as a secondary consideration in the event that those below are incapable of handling the situation for themselves.
The dictionary will often also refer to various papal encyclicals for possible uses of the word.
This is all very well, but it hardly suffices for our purpose.
In a European context the word "subsidiarity' has a third meaning, and possibly an even more important one, in that it is constantly misused by those looking for a reason not to have to do something, or to postpone something indefinitely.
This is exactly what is happening now in connection with the proposed European public prosecutor or judicial authority.
I believe that we reached agreement on this matter in the discussions held by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
We should therefore demonstrate here today in this House that we require better coordination between the national prosecution authorities in those areas involving the control, prevention and sanctioning of fraud affecting the financial interests of the Union.
In far too many areas we see, time and time again, that many Member States regard the improper use of EU funds, and EU funds alone, as a pardonable offence, and that even national prosecution authorities take a very long time to deal with these fraudulent offences by way of appropriate sanctions.
The report calls for a stronger UCLAF to be set up as a matter of urgency to tackle this problem and also demands the establishment of a new institution - call it what you will - and the name European public prosecutor perhaps gives the wrong impression here.
In substance we need something which will ensure that the national prosecution authorities change their nonchalant attitude towards the abuse of the Union's financial interests, which they have displayed all too often.
We need to achieve greater coordination so that this type of offence can be properly prosecuted and, if at all possible, removed from our midst.
