Mr President, I want to congratulate the rapporteur, Mr Adam, on his excellent report.
I would like to point out that he took on a very important responsibility in drafting this report.
Not least, he went to Chernobyl in person, in order to see for himself both the progress made and the condition of the sarcophagus in situ .
That represented a certain personal risk for him, of course.
We should record that fact here.
There was excellent cooperation between him as the rapporteur for this report and myself as the rapporteur for the 1998 budget.
Because once again, a decision has been taken elsewhere about where the European Union should make its financial contribution.
During the 1998 budget procedure, we were confronted with the fact that the sum of ECU 100 million was to be made available for the safety of the sarcophagus as "front loading' , in other words immediately.
In 1997 we held a hearing on this matter in London, together with the Commission and the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, where we were informed about the details of the procedure and the project.
Both from our responsibility for the budget and as representatives of the Group of the European People's Party, we are in favour of the sarcophagus being made safe.
But we must formulate some conditions, of course.
We also made resources available as front loading for the reconstruction of the war-damaged former Yugoslavia.
We know about these problems.
We discussed them just this week.
That is why the most important precondition is adherence to the agreement between the Ukraine, the European Union and the USA under the auspices of the G7.
That means that the agreed obligation to provide financial resources must be simultaneously fulfilled by all the parties, and that, in the case of the ECU 100 million which we now want to make available, we initially assume that this sum will be available for the overall project until 2005.
Because we know there is a funding shortfall of more than ECU 300 million or US$ 300 million in the case of this overall project.
We shall undoubtedly be confronted with this shortfall again at some point.
That is why we have explicitly recorded that the European Union for its part is ready to make ECU 100 million available, as contractually agreed, and to do so in the next two years, 1998 and 1999.
We have created a special budget line in the budget procedure.
In so doing, our intention was - as we also informed the Commission - to prevent the Commission from on the one hand redesigning the TACIS programme as basically a nuclear safety programme, and on the other hand reducing the large arrears in the TACIS programme with a cheque for ECU 100 million.
We want more transparency here.
At the end of the day, this also offers the opportunity to show the public the value of nuclear safety in Europe, and what we are doing for the sake of achieving it.
That is why there is a separate budget line.
Mr Adam has mentioned the fact that it is very, very important for us to receive competent and adequate information about the proper use of the funds in situ .
In the knowledge that only coordinated action by everyone in the world will bring genuine progress in improving the nuclear safety of the sarcophagus at Chernobyl, and that the Ukraine itself and those of its people with political responsibility are the key to success in this process, the PPE will vote in favour of this report by Mr Adam, and his amendments.
The only proposal from the Green Group in the European Parliament which we shall vote for is Amendment No 17, by Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz.
