Mr President, Mrs Lööw, I certainly have a few more comments to make on this particular question.
In autumn last year, the federal minister presented a draft convention on trafficking to the UN General Assembly.
In his statement to the 52nd General Assembly, he said that this draft would probably be submitted to the next meeting of the UN Commission on crime prevention.
That has now been done.
After the very positive feedback from this initiative, it was agreed with Italy to pursue this initiative jointly, with the Italians concentrating mainly on the question of trafficking on the high seas.
At its meeting in April, the UN Commission on crime prevention decided to further pursue the project of an international framework convention against organised crime, although restricting its scope to general legal assistance and extradition provisions.
Specific crimes were to be dealt with in protocols to the framework convention.
It was agreed to draw up a protocol against trafficking as such.
It was also agreed to draw up protocols on traffic in women and children and on handguns.
With a view to formalising the negotiations on this framework convention and the protocols, the UN General Assembly's Commission on crime prevention recommended the adoption of a resolution providing for the creation of an ad hoc committee to draft a framework convention.
This committee was tasked immediately to start negotiations on a trafficking protocol on the basis of this Austro-Italian initiative.
At the first informal meeting of the ad hoc committee in Buenos Aires from 31 August to 4 September this year, Austria and Italy submitted a draft protocol on trafficking supported by the EU, which was endorsed by the 60 or so delegations who attended it.
Formal negotiations on the protocol will begin in Vienna in January and it is expected that we shall conclude them by March.
The convention is scheduled for completion in the year 2000.
On the question of traffic in women and children, it was emphasised that it is particularly important carefully to observe the procedure under the human rights convention for drafting an additional protocol to the convention on children's rights.
But since we do not yet have a draft text for that protocol on traffic in women and children, the USA agreed to submit one no later than March; so this too is an ongoing process.
In addition to specific provisions on police cooperation and combating trafficking on the high seas, the protocol provides in particular that the traffickers must either be punished or extradited to other treaty partners, aut dedere aut iudicare .
However, the illegal immigrants must not be punished as accessories.
They can only be accused of infringing immigration provisions but not of having committed a crime.
That is what I wished to add.
