Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should also like to begin with thanks to Sue Waddington for her report, which as we are already aware has been submitted as a document of very high quality.
She has very accurately recognized the shortcomings in the Commission's report and I share her criticism of the Commission.
It is certainly well meant, Madam Commissioner, but in our opinion your concept for the future is too defensive.
All respect to subsidiarity, but the networking of the economy, the internal market and also the euro make a European strategy necessary.
This is no contradiction, but a plea for more cooperation.
The insufficient cooperation of the Member States, which the Commission also ascertained, shows this shortcoming in European thought.
For some sectors no data were even available, including - conspicuously - data for the training sector.
The figures on participation in further training measures are also interesting, and the unemployment figures are particularly negative.
I think, and indeed we all hope, that this will now change as a result of the Amsterdam guidelines.
For we all know - and I should once again like to specifically point out - that over 50 % of the long-term unemployed in Europe are inadequately or wrongly trained and further trained.
This demonstrates the special significance of further training in Europe, particularly in connection with the combating of unemployment.
Formal access to vocational training is certainly guaranteed in all 15 Member States, but the reality - the opportunities for European citizens - varies considerably.
I refer here quite specifically to the demands of Mrs Waddington in points 10 and 11 of the report.
The various sectors are also different: for example the building sector, which quite urgently requires a further qualification, because there as well the working materials and the methods are new and they are developing further.
In the building sector only 15 % are engaged in further training compared to 57 % in the insurance and banking sector.
There are good approaches and opportunities in many countries, including Germany.
However, I discovered that all the projects I saw interestingly have a European context.
They have either been co-financed via Europe through joint initiatives or they are European in-service trainee ships which have been arranged by farsighted teachers.
The German Federal President Roman Herzog recently gave a remarkable speech, which I do not agree with on every point.
But in each case I share his criticism of the provinciality of Germany and other Member States.
We will not achieve competitiveness in Europe by cutting back social rights, but only by promoting lifelong learning.
