Mr President, as always Mr Goerens has submitted a report which is well thought through and full of ideas.
It is also timely, as a reorganization of development policy is in the pipeline.
But what is the point of such good reports if the framework conditions of the policy aren't right?
We are confronted with more and more catastrophes, more and more famines, more and more natural disasters.
The issue of development policy is becoming more and more urgent.
Here in the House, however, we have a situation whereby every year in the budget process we have to fight for funding cuts not to be implemented, just to hold on to the previous year's funding levels.
In addition, every year we are faced with the problem of under-staffing within the Commission.
When I was budget rapporteur two years ago, the Commission promised to recruit more personnel in DG VIII for NGOs.
I believe that the work of the NGOs is of vital importance, particularly for development policy and with regard to efficiency.
They are opinion formers, they know their business, they are based on the ground.
But there aren't enough staff to be able to work really efficiently.
I have just received a whingeing letter from the pharmaceutical campaign in Germany.
They have had to cut three positions because they have not received funding from the Commission.
It's the same story for Mozambique, a cultural event this weekend, or next week in Frankfurt.
And it's no help if personnel are sent abroad, if aid is delivered in the countries themselves.
I believe that the Commission must organise things itself.
It's European development aid and I hope that this will change over the next few years, that we really will become efficient, irrespective of the political framework.
I hope that the burden of debt will stop pushing the countries of the third world further onto their knees, with an unbridled world finance policy, as we are witnessing in South East Asia, making the global market an ever wilder place while we are forced to watch famines and natural disasters.
