Mr President, today is indeed a great and historic day.
Monetary union will change the face of Europe.
For the first time ever, a common currency will be in use all over Europe from Flensburg to Sicily and from Dublin to Helsinki.
This represents an important step, and a proper one, towards the ever closer union of the peoples of Europe.
Day in and day out we will personally experience the euro as tangible proof of European integration.
For the first time we will see a European federal authority.
For the first time nation states, acting freely and without coercion or the threat of war, have renounced their sovereignty over monetary policy.
But in reality this relinquishment of sovereignty means a greater sovereignty for all, for the European monetary union, with its 300 million people, with its 20 % share of world GDP and world trade, will acquire greater sovereignty and the capacity to shape its own political destiny for the benefit of Europe and its people, and will be able to face the threats of globalization with greater self-assurance.
The introduction of the euro will remove obstacles to trade in the internal market, will eliminate exchange rate risks, will increase certainty in economic planning, will reduce transaction costs and will therefore allow us to make greater use of Europe's scope for growth, its potential for innovation and its employment opportunities.
We know that we are stronger when we stand united than when we stand alone.
Europe is ready for the euro.
The euro will be a stable and a secure currency.
At long last a culture of stability and historically low inflation rates has gained acceptance.
The degree of convergence will transform monetary union into a community based on stability.
In times of upheaval people are happy to look to the future, but all the same they do so with scepticism and uncertainty.
It is our duty as the European Parliament to give them guidance and confidence in the future, for at the end of the day the euro has to be accepted not only by the markets but also by the people.
We have profited from the lessons of the past.
Price stability is essential for social and political stability.
Exchange-rate stability is essential for price stability in an open and integrated internal market.
In the long run both can only be safeguarded by a common monetary policy and an independent European Central Bank is an appropriate means to this end.
But in the future monetary policy will be made for the benefit of all those participating in European Economic and Monetary Union.
We are pleased to see that this currently comprises eleven Member States and hope that they will soon be followed by the others.
The Maastricht Treaty rightly obliges the European Central Bank to support the economic policy of the European Union.
In this way European monetary union will contribute to stability in real economic terms, something which is urgently needed to promote investment, growth and employment, and in this sense it already represents an element of political union.
We also need to make progress in the areas of employment and social policy.
Dumping and unfair competition when measured against normal social and environmental standards, not to mention the destructive competition that exists between taxation systems, are irreconcilable with the spirit of the European Community and the internal market.
We therefore need greater progress in the areas of common employment and social policy.
Future generations will ask why we took so long to adopt the euro.
Monetary union constitutes a new European commonwealth.
In this respect monetary union has quite justifiably become an important instrument for Europe's role in the 21st century.
Willy Brandt once said: Europe belongs to all of us.
It is our responsibility to find the right response to the challenges of our time and to do this at the most appropriate moment.
Well, the euro has arrived at the right moment.
Let us make the most of the opportunity.
That is why the euro belongs to all of us.
(Applause)
