Mr President, as a member of the Delegation for relations with Ukraine, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report, and to focus particularly on one point, point 23, in which he urges us explicitly to pay greater attention to the particular conditions of the process of economic transformation in Ukraine.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Commissioner, as Western Europeans we should not lose sight of the fact that what we are dealing with here is a unique - certainly a first and perhaps even unique - transformation process which has a dimension different from any that we in Western Europe have hitherto experienced.
This is the first time that a process of this type has taken place and none of us can predict or define it with certainty because we are experiencing it for the first time.
Since experts estimate that the national economy of Ukraine is characterized by the existence of a black economy accounting for at least 30 %, and probably even as much as 40 % of commercial activity, the question arises as to how we can move peacefully and sensibly towards its successful conversion - and its success is imperative - into a legally operating social market economy.
We do not know either exactly how to proceed.
After several visits there I feel I may suggest that on no account can it be a speedy procedure.
We need patience and our priority must be to ensure that any development is lasting and stable.
To follow on, I would like to say something about the problem of Mrs Hoff's report, in other words, the problem concerning TACIS.
Once again the agricultural sector is involved.
I have had the opportunity to visit with other colleagues several TACIS farming projects in Ukraine.
It is true - and I should like to highlight this specifically in the interests of those people who are the ultimate beneficiaries in Ukraine - that, for the reasons already mentioned, the start-up phase was so lengthy that now there is quite simply no longer the time required to implement the projects in a sensible and lasting way, particularly in the case of farming projects.
At this point I should like to sound an urgent warning.
Farming projects at least must be extended and constantly promoted or they will never reap any significant benefits.
I should also like to say something about the manner in which some projects - naturally not all of them - are structured.
We were somewhat disconcerted by the fact that in a region like Ukraine where businesses have operated on a large scale for three quarters of a century, emphasis was being placed specifically and almost exclusively on the setting up of one-man businesses with twenty stalls for pig fattening.
Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, Madam Commissioner, it is my belief that we would be ill-advised to continue solely with such projects.
Undoubtedly it makes sense to promote other projects which are better suited to the prevailing conditions in Ukraine.
I should like to emphasize this point once again.
