Mr President, the Greens are asking the EU and the Federal government in Germany to strongly support Switzerland's plans for the introduction of an output-related heavy goods vehicle tax and an alpine transit tax in order, at long last, to move forward on the protection of the alpine habitat and the transfer of heavy goods transport from road to rail.
Similarly, external costs - in particular environmental costs - as well as road costs should be passed on to road traffic, taking into account the especially high costs in the alpine regions.
For we have a particular responsibility to the people and their alpine habitat.
It would appear the Messrs Jarzembowski and Ferber, in particular, have not quite grasped this point.
We cannot, as they suggest, try to blackmail Switzerland with the argument that if they don't do what the EU wants them to do, the Swiss will no longer be allowed out of their own country, that they will, so to speak, be imprisoned in their own fortress.
Let me say once and for all and quite clearly, this behaviour is nothing but more imperialist delusions and status craving.
In actual fact, Switzerland's plans support the EU in as far as they are an attempt, at long last, to develop a sustained traffic policy.
That can hardly be described as an attack on the EU!
Against this backdrop, the blockade being operated by Bavaria, the Federal government and the Italians is quite incomprehensible.
The Greens are organizing a conference on this complex question with the representatives of the various countries involved on 1st February in Lindau.
Turning to the Netherlands: If the alpine habitat is destroyed, it won't be the sea that you will need to build your flood dams against, it will be Rhine.
For once the Alps are destroyed, you'll find yourselves under water all year long!
The Alps provide a reservoir of potable water; one which we need.
If we continue to destroy the Alps in this manner, it may well be possible to ski everywhere in the Alps, because there won't be any trees.
But if that's the point, why not go skating in Holland instead!
I advise you to take a completely fresh look at this habitat, and as a farmer, I say to you: We live off 30 cm of this earth, and if these 30 cm are destroyed then we quite simply won't have to worry about free trade, transit and goods transport any more.
There won't be any need.
