Madam President, I would like to congratulate the three rapporteurs for, as far as I know from the other committee, all three reports were passed unanimously.
Our task, as parliamentarians elected directly by the citizens of Europe, is to represent the interests of these citizens and to look after their concerns.
No institution or administration is infallible.
European regulations can prove unsatisfactory in practice, just as the best-intentioned transposal of European law into national law can be unsatisfactory.
We all know that administrations tend to act bureaucratically and that means at a distance from their citizens.
Proximity to citizens is one of the favourite expressions heard in the speeches of the Members of this House.
The Committee on Petitions with its practical work provides the guarantee that this proximity exists in practice.
The work of the committee is to provide redress in the case of shortcomings in or breaches of Community law and to protect the rights of its citizens.
Happily, the citizens of Europe are exercising their rights more and more frequently and so the number of complaints and petitions received has increased over recent years.
Unfortunately, the Secretariat's staff resources have not automatically grown in line with the increasing volume of work in the committee, and we are endeavouring to speed up the process by which petitions are dealt with by adapting and tightening up our working practices and systems.
We also hope that the Wibe report decision on the amendment of the Rules of Procedure will win us further possibilities because it should mean that petitions could be submitted via the Internet and would make the administration and processing of the entire system faster.
It is not merely annoying that as long as several years can elapse before some petitions can be resolved.
It also gives a very negative picture of Europe.
There are many reasons for the length of time it can take to process petitions.
Firstly, it takes time for the documents to be translated and for a summary to be made available in the eleven languages.
Secondly, in most cases the Commission is asked for information and the Commission's answer then has to be translated into all the languages before the petitions can be dealt with in committee.
The greatest problem, however, comes from the Member States whose responses to complaints, particularly where these are obviously justified, are evasive, slow and in some cases non-existent and are only moved to action by the threat of appearing before the European Court of Justice.
The fact that the European Commission report on this EU law lists 17 actions for treaty violation brought at the instigation of the Parliament in 1997 is the result of our work in the Committee on Petitions.
So, despite all the difficulties, it is gratifying that many petitions have nevertheless reached a successful conclusion.
The annual report describes several cases by way of example and I should like to pick up on one of them here.
It involves the case of a German employee who had worked for part of his career in Belgium and France.
He quite rightly applied for his pension in all three Member States and although the French pension fund granted his claim, it only paid out half of it on the grounds that he had to submit the pension rulings from Germany and Belgium before he could receive the entire amount.
However, as he was simultaneously experiencing difficulties with the German pension fund, where the matter had gone to court, he would have had to wait a considerable time before receiving his French pension.
At the initiative and intervention of the Commission, the French pension ruling was then changed and he was paid the full pension as the French authorities had acted on the basis of an old directive.
This was a case, therefore, in which national authorities had made an error but the intervention of the Committee on Petitions was successful and a citizen was granted his rights.
Not all petitions can be resolved so successfully.
Time and again we run up against the limits of jurisdiction imposed by the Treaty.
However, it is important that the citizens of Europe are kept informed and that they know they can turn to the Committee on Petitions for help in enforcing their rights and we will do everything in our power to help them obtain their rights.
