Mrs Kestelijn-Sierens repeats the question which she has already put in writing, and I could now repeat the answer which I have already given.
But that would not get us much further.
I said that we have legal regulations in the Union and in the Member States which afford adequate protection to the consumer.
You have yourself quoted a case where these legal provisions are not effective.
If, for example, a medicine is permitted in the USA, which no-one could describe as a wild and under-developed country where all sorts of things can be sold, then a manufacturer or someone else who wants to offer this medicine for sale is able to do so via the Internet.
That is not prohibited.
While this would not be permitted by our legislation in Europe, the distributor in question is not travelling to Europe, he is in fact selling the medicine from a base in America.
The fact that the Internet extends to every country in the world is due to the technical nature of its infrastructure.
That is why the distributor is in a position - at least under international law - to sell his products in America and, furthermore, to send them to any European consumer who wants them without breaking European law.
Nor does the consumer make himself liable to prosecution or contravene any laws unless he is intending to buy medicines which are clearly prohibited.
But in the case which you have mentioned the consumer does not make himself liable to prosecution.
So the only possible way in which we can settle this is to seek an international agreement under which, for example, the American manufacturer undertakes, by way of a voluntary commitment, to supply his medicines only to countries in which they may be obtained without the need for a prescription.
This is the only solution which will work.
We cannot tackle these problems using legislation alone.
There is also a problem in respect of competition, because if the restrictions we are discussing today apply to European companies or pharmacists, we shall see these pharmacists, traders or businesses being put at a competitive disadvantage vis-àvis other countries where such medicines are allowed to circulate freely.
We therefore have a problem facing our industry and it is one which cannot simply be solved by passing a new law, in fact quite the reverse.
I am convinced that we must review existing laws to do justice to both sides of the argument, namely protecting the consumer while at the same time safeguarding the competitiveness of our industry.
