Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of our new single currency calls for optimal accompanying monetary-policy measures.
We must also bear in mind the impact on the capital markets of all the relevant parameters, and make due allowance for the effect of the external aspects of economic and monetary union.
But in addition, and most importantly, we must make the euro as acceptable as possible to the people of Europe.
The euro will be all the more acceptable if it can be made obvious how it is going to function.
In this respect it is particularly important to ensure in the capital market that profit distribution and repayments - in the case of pension funds for example - are subject to workable investment principles.
We also need to take account of the competition principle, according to which a major part of funds has to remain inland, in the European Union - I am thinking of the Friedrich report now - and all the more so right now, because investment in the European Union is more important than ever, if we are to get a grip on our employment situation.
That is a priority.
Quite simply, that is how the euro and the future of our money economy will be judged.
The money economy cannot just be something abstract.
Furthermore, the consumer policy aspects are also highly important.
The introduction of the euro should not cost consumers anything during the transitional phase.
Conversion costs - in both senses of the word - should not be charged to consumers.
The continuity of existing contracts must be guaranteed, and accompanying measures are needed for this purpose.
One of the key accompanying measures is dual pricing.
Dual pricing also requires a legal framework, a regulation.
This kind of regulation is necessary to provide consumers with transparency and means of checking.
It is not a question of not being able to trust the market, it is a question of getting consumers to trust the euro, and the force of law has a part to play here too.
We also need to encourage people to feel good about the single currency.
This will provide credibility and will also contribute to the reputation that our institutions, particularly the European Central Bank, need to have.
If stability is to be achieved, it will require many accompanying measures, but above all enormous sensitivity.
That is the essence of the political challenge.
It cannot just be left to the money technocrats!
