Mr President, we welcome the Commission initiative to present and, more especially, to discuss its ideas on the future of the market in fisheries products in the European Union.
The chosen form of a report makes for a discussion that is pertinent to the issue.
Three meaningful words are quoted in the Communication heading: responsibility, partnership and competitiveness - the correct sequence, in my opinion.
Fish is, and will continue to be, a scarce resource both inside and outside the European Union if some 50 % of the fish and fish products supplied in the EU originate from imports.
They are not available in the European Union.
That is why conservation of the fish stocks and market policy are closely connected.
The fisheries activity needs to be oriented globally on the basis of sustainability.
We particularly support restrictive measures for endangered stocks.
The main problem is adapting the fisheries capacity to available stocks, and this is where intervention should be the greatest.
Merely to regulate via the market is, in my opinion, a symptomatic response to the problem.
I am not the only one facing questions such as: How much of the market do we want to regulate?
Where does responsibility, or rather the own initiative of those involved, begin and end?
What do we want - a market economy or a planned economy?
Standard management and marketing measures presuppose an effective and, above all, a balanced system of controls.
We can do nothing other than support the call that fisheries products should only be landed in those ports which are effectively able to control them, but not, however, the extension of fisheries inspectors's rights to that of the retail trade.
On the other hand, it will also be vital - not only as part of the next WTO negotiations, but also with bilateral fishing agreements - to make some reference to social standards, which nowadays cause considerable distortion of competition.
In conclusion, I wish to thank the two rapporteurs for their very good reports, and I hope that we can continue to work with these excellent documents in the Committee on Fisheries.
