Mr President, I should like to express the hope that we have found an eternal solution to an eternal problem, and that none of the three institutions will unravel the agreement which has been negotiated.
In resolving the legal bases issue, I believe that Parliament has proved - at least in recent years - through its work on the budget that it is not only consistent in terms of its political commitments, but also in terms of the way in which it funds these political objectives.
I should certainly like to congratulate the Austrian Presidency, therefore, on the skilful way in which it conducted the negotiations on 17 July.
Like Mr Wynn, however, I was present at the discussions, and at times I had the impression that there was no political objective at stake there, but that these were petty negotiations reminiscent of the bourgeois, about a couple of million ecus or so, and the next six months or year or so.
In parts it was indeed embarrassing, and one could not help thinking that at least some of those present were not concerned with finding a political solution, but more of an administrative, technical one.
I am inclined to believe, Mr President-in-Office, that you should not be given all the credit; the time was, quite simply, ripe.
Parliament kept stepping up the pressure, and in the end the Council either had to, or wanted to, give in.
Admittedly, both you and we in Parliament can be happy with the result.
There is certainly no doubt about that.
We - all three partners - now know where we stand for the future and, as Mr Wynn said, we still need to convince our colleagues in the House.
Under current circumstances, however, that should not be too difficult.
As rapporteur for the 1998 budget, I thought it was particularly important that on 17 July - to comply with the Court of Justice judgment - the Commission also tabled a proposal for the 1998 budget, a workable proposal in our view.
As a Parliament, we have also indicated - and in fact this is another significant agreement - that we are prepared to comply with the Court of Justice judgment, and that we are not able to increase the political pressure in this matter.
But some services seem to be taking advantage of the present unclear situation for their own ends.
Commissioner Liikanen, I would ask you to make it clear to all your services once again that, now that a solution has been found and agreed, they should apply it for 1998 as well.
This is because we need the 1998 appropriations to be implemented as soon as possible, so that the NGOs affected receive the money they were promised.
Once again, I should like to warmly congratulate Mr Christodoulou, who is, of course, an old hand, and has worked on this issue for several years.
In Germany, we say that we sit problems out.
We have someone sitting at the head of the government there who sits problems out.
Mr Christodoulou has also sat this problem out and has succeeded!
(Applause)
