Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as an Austrian - and indeed my country will be the successor of the British Presidency - I thank you Mr President-in-Office of the Council for your clear statements, for a people's Europe, a Europe which wants to draw nearer to its people and citizens and a Europe which treats jobs and the environment as priority issues.
But as a foreign policy speaker for my group, the PSE group, I would like to deal with two trouble spots close to us, but which affect us quite specifically in our own security interests.
I should like to call upon you Mr President-inOffice of the Council, and urge you, to do what you have often announced, today as well in this house, to demonstrate a high level of commitment in influencing developments in the Middle East and Algeria.
This is not a question of interference, but the legitimate participation of Europe in the shaping of a collective environment, in the preservation of our inherent security interests.
The Middle East, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, is certainly also a central element of your presidency.
The peace process has unfortunately been interrupted.
The European Union is paying an awful lot of money, most of which - and this is not our fault - is ultimately having a negative result in Palestine.
We ought no longer be the paymaster following the motto of Europe pays and others - particularly the United States - deliver, as is the case in Bosnia and the Middle East.
I would like to fully support your efforts, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and especially your efforts at the talks in America, to encourage the Americans to develop a stronger partnership in the Middle East in the interest of peace.
We want to support, not hinder, everything that America has done.
But we also want to do something else, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: with our efforts in the Middle East and Israel, but also in Palestine, we must also turn our attention to human rights as well as taking up the fight against corruption.
This must be our objective wherever our money is used.
With regard to the situation in Algeria, the fate that country is experiencing is particularly tragic.
Here too, we must focus on a common territory, the common economic and political interests and the control of migratory movements; but above all it is a question of a humane outcome.
None of us should be indifferent to the shocking events in Algeria, the brutal and gruesome murders, the horror of the Algerian nights!
It is a mockery for the government to allege it has everything under control.
It has nothing under control!
There are allegations, presumptions, that sections of the government and sections of the military are directly or indirectly behind these murders.
We have no proof, merely anonymous statements.
This makes contacts and discussions in Algeria all the more urgent.
We from the Parliament will have to take the same action as you.
It is our sisters and brothers who are being murdered there.
We must not be indifferent to that!
We must do everything to prevent it continuing.
