Mr President, This regulation, as we have heard, affects regions on the extreme fringe of the EU, such as the Azores, Madeira, the Canary Islands, French Guiana and others.
Because of their remoteness these regions incur additional costs in the marketing of certain fishery products.
We now need to update and maintain the current system of subsidy controls which are designed, quite simply, to balance the additional costs actually incurred in the marketing of fishery products against those of other EU regions.
This proposal has been accepted by the Committee on Fisheries.
An interesting proposal in some amendments is for subsidies to be redistributed along more flexible lines, whereby the total amount of aid remains the same.
The report is very up-to-date inasmuch as it addresses structural policy aspects of the fisheries sector.
We have on several occasions complained of the fact that the fisheries industry is scarcely mentioned in Agenda 2000, while the Commission Work Programme for 1998 only refers to it in passing.
As a result of this we were motivated to focus now on the structural problems affecting the fisheries sector.
The long-running alignment programme and the technical measures agreed in 1997 can only have a positive effect on the lives and jobs of those working in the fisheries sector once the structural problems affecting this industry are tackled and ultimately solved.
But to do this we obviously need money.
Parliament has already played its part in 1997 by drawing up a forward-looking report on European fisheries policy after 2002.
Two further initiative reports are to follow in 1998.
That which deals with industrial fisheries will again produce a passionate debate, but the outcome will show that we are well able to tackle the technical problems affecting the fisheries industry and that we are all set to solve the conflict which exists in this sector, and that this House has the will to achieve its objectives.
Controversial funds have now been set aside under international agreement.
Let us then take a cool and calculated look at the situation and let us employ the full force of the Budget Committee and of all other members of this House so that we can ultimately achieve the longed-for and legislatively necessary decision on strengthening the position of Parliament.
A report on the islands is currently being debated.
A report on coastal areas is to follow.
The aim here is to highlight and resolve the local infrastructure problems so that jobs and production centres in these unstable regions can be maintained and built up to the advantage of the fisheries industry.
To this end we shall continue to work as before, and perhaps in an even more focused way, which I believe was the intended message of Mr Ortega's report.
