Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, I have listened to you carefully, and Mr Hänsch and Mr Brok have already said something about your interpretation of subsidiarity.
I must admit that I had to smile when you said that the extraordinary summit of Heads of State or Government also needed to help to fire our citizens with enthusiasm for Europe, and that this could not be done half-heartedly.
I am very keen to see how our Heads of State or Government will achieve this whole-heartedly.
I listened to your statement about the Austrian presidency, which was very much geared to foreign policy, and I was waiting for you to get to specific points, and you did indeed mention a few.
You even said a few words about environmental policy.
I greatly appreciated that.
I would like you to tell me, given that you are convinced that the European Union should become more effective and closer to the people, a point on which we all agree, what role you intend to play in achieving this as President-in-Office of the Council, as one of the Austrian presidency's priorities is environment policy, as it always has been in Austria.
I have read that it is also to be a priority during these six months.
If that is the case, you must manage to achieve something rather more specific following the Cardiff Summit, which means integrating environmental policy into other policy areas.
I do not want to bore you and others here with limit values.
I do not want to discuss what should apply to cars and to the air with you today.
However, I would like to ask you if you will succeed in integrating environmental policy into economic policy as a vital factor in legislation relating to economic policy, both here and in individual countries.
Will you manage to make the vital link between the environment and transport?
When I say vital, I mean vital.
This is not one of those fine but empty words that you so rightly denounced.
If you do not succeed in this, we will continue to suffer from a lack of efficiency.
You quite rightly stated that the European Union needs to be efficient.
I very much appreciate that.
But if you cannot manage, for instance, to check whether what we decide here is being implemented in the Member States, in your fellow members' countries, to check efficiency in that way, then you will not succeed.
If the European Union is really supposed to become closer to people and environmental policy is an important subject, if this is one of your presidency's priorities, and if a presidency is only successful if it achieves its priorities, then your presidency will only be successful if you succeed in doing what I have called upon you to do here.
