Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are all delighted with the Green Paper and all of us sitting here would wish to have - and we would also like to hear this from the Commissioner -a framework directive.
Please allow me to say that the present report can be judged very positively.
I, too, would like to congratulate Mrs Graenitz on it, though I would also like to clarify one particular point of her report, namely paragraph 59, in which Directive 79/112/EEC is addressed.
The European Commission envisages in its proposal to amend this directive that the Advisory Committee on Wine of the European Commission will be responsible for determining appropriate labelling requirements for wine, and not the food committee permanently set up by the directive.
In its first draft, the Economic and Social Committee still intended the food committee to be responsible for the labelling.
In its final opinion, the ESC comes out in favour of the Commission's proposal.
Parliament too declares itself in favour of the Commission's proposal in a draft opinion.
Please allow me to state at this point that beside the practical reasons for a special approach to the labelling of wine and wine products -where all wine producers and all wine-producing regions are of a like mind -there are many arguments in law in favour of the Commission's proposal.
And I would not want the opposite view to arise through any misunderstanding in the present report.
In March 1997 the Legal Service delivered an opinion on the legal base for the proposed regulation introducing a system of labelling and registering of cattle and for identifying beef.
The issue centred on whether Article 43 of the EC Treaty (agricultural policy) or Article 100a (Single Market) applied as a legal base.
The report concluded from reference to numerous judgments of the European Court of Justice that Article 43 of the EC Treaty is the correct legal base.
Legal instruments on the production and marketing of the agricultural products specified in Appendix II of the Treaty may contain provisions for the harmonization of the national regulations without Article 100 or Article 100a of the EC Treaty being referred to.
In pursuing the aims of the common agricultural policy, the demands of the general interest, such as consumer protection or the safeguarding of the health and life of man and animals, should not be overlooked.
Health protection should be regarded as being paramount with any agricultural measure.
Hence we have the European Court's embargo on British beef.
Because of the reservations I have cited, the respective market organization provisions and the procedures contained therein should be adhered to where the more detailed labelling requirements for additives in wine are concerned.
I can only hope that a majority of this House shares my view, and I would not want this report to give a false lead in any way.
