Madam President, human rights are the foundation of each national constitution and a major benefit for every man and woman.
Yet at the end of the 20th century, the distance between professed intention and reality is still great, despite all the successes achieved.
International Women's Day, which yesterday saw not only women take to the streets, but also a substantial number of men, including myself, has focused attention on Islamic fundamentalism.
The joint campaign launched by the European Parliament and the Commission 'A flower for the women in Kabul' condemns the reign of terror in Afghanistan, in which women - as we saw today - are robbed of their personal dignity and status.
They must wear veils.
Their view is limited by a guard of fabric, as if they were looking through a cage.
They have become second-class citizens who are no longer able to express themselves publicly, and Afghanistan was once a progressive country!
They are no longer allowed to practise their previous activities as doctors, teachers, members of parliament.
The Islamic regime has degraded women to second-class citizens.
You, Madam Commissioner, have experienced it first hand.
Our respect and all our sympathy goes out to you.
We will do our utmost to mobilize international publicity against the Taliban regime and conduct a sustained campaign.
Nor let us not forget today that the idea of equality has still to be realized in Europe.
A start has been made through the directive regulating the burden of proof in questions of discrimination, the new equality article in the Amsterdam Treaty and the Marshall judgement supporting women in promotion.
The advancement of self-assured women is unstoppable.
The support for women at the Luxembourg summit is a good basis for further integration in professional life, yet picking up a career after child-caring is still a vital problem.
Careers at management level are the exception, and we are miles away from equal payment for equal work.
Hence, 8 May is an incentive to implement the concept of main-streaming in all areas of society.
If I had one wish, it would be that in May the flowers for the women in Kabul blossom in full view throughout the world, in both the western and the eastern hemispheres!
