.
Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there has already been in this House a report on the health protection requirements and a quite outstanding opinion was delivered by Parliament on the subject.
The Commission's second report also appears to me to be excellent, so that as a result I found the task I was given to be very difficult.
In addition, there is the fact that in the area of health, in particular, the matter of breach of the subsidiarity principle constantly hovers over one's head.
Permit me, despite these short remarks, to make a few critical points on this report by the Commission.
That agriculture makes a quite decisive contribution to the health of the population is undisputed.
Nevertheless, the Commission's statements here remain general and, in my opinion, incomplete.
Related to this, of course, is nutrition.
The Commission's statements on this do not correspond at all with the significance of this area in current health policy.
I should like to cordially request that in the next report, which will be available very soon, the Commission pays particular attention to this area.
Likewise I expect a statement from the Commission on the situation regarding vitamins and mineral products within the EU, before legislative measures are proposed here.
As long as we express ourselves in such a general way in terms of health, we can always expect everybody to be of one mind.
But as soon as we are specific, then the harmony rapidly disappears.
Let me illustrate this with point 10 of my report on the subject of tobacco.
We all know that tobacco is harmful to people's health; lung cancer, circulatory and heart diseases, cancer of the larynx, cancer of the tongue, cancer of the stomach and of the intestine are very frequently the scientifically proven consequence.
We all know that the nicotine from tobacco is addictive and we all want to protect young people from becoming involved with this drug.
Each of us has his own ideas as to how this can best be achieved.
It is only on how to reach this common goal that we are not at all in agreement.
Many believe that simply banning the advertising of tobacco will solve the problem.
Well, I share the opinion of those who believe that if a product is so dangerous that it should not be advertised, it would be much better not to produce it in the first place, nor buy it, nor sell it.
In no way should this product be financially supported and promoted year in year out, as happens in our case with the growing of tobacco.
I thus believe we should first submit a plan for a reform of the existing grant system, similar to that which the agriculture ministers have also already made a start on.
I consider it necessary to check whether it is possible to convert to other agricultural products and, thirdly, to check how and if the livelihood of many farmers and many thousands of families can nevertheless be secured.
I believe we should tackle the problem at its roots and in our case this is to be taken very literally.
There is still a whole series of other points which appear to me to be very important; for example points 22, 24 and 25.
I consider it to be important that the Commission is still committed to a ban on growth promoting hormones in the fattening of animals.
I should be very grateful if the Commission could impose the same health requirements on all food imports as those placed on Community production.
I also believe that the Commission should commit itself to a very strict atomic liability law, again in the interests of the health of the population.
If we take adherence to the treaties seriously, then we must see to it that in all Community policies, as it is so beautifully expressed, a high level of health protection is guaranteed.
It is a big job, certainly a difficult job, which we should regard as a challenge!
