Mr President, I too should like to endorse previous speakers' words of thanks.
I believe that this is a good agreement both for Mr Christodoulou and this House, and for the Commission and the Council.
Above all, I am pleased that Parliament was steadfast in its efforts to have the judgment of the Court of Justice recognised.
We were under extreme pressure from some non-governmental organisations to act as if this judgement did not exist.
I believe that the negotiations we had with the NGOs - the outside world in this case - on safeguarding the judgment contributed greatly to raising awareness of how we manage our money, and the fact that we do need legal bases for this.
All in all, I consider this to have been a success.
It still remains to be seen how far the agreement on legal bases will take us.
We in Parliament must now establish legal bases with the Council, and this makes us dependent, completely and utterly - as the Maastricht and Amsterdam Treaties intend - on the Commission's right of initiative.
That is why, Commissioner and Mr Christodoulou, I have tabled amendments pointing out that this interinstitutional agreement vests the Commission, as the initiator of legislation, with a huge responsibility, and that in the future this will force us to seek maximum powers of codecision for the Council and Parliament.
I look forward to working in cooperation with the Commission on this matter.
But let me now return to concerns related to the 1998 budget, which is quite rightly not covered by the future arrangements in the agreement, but does form part of the overall compromise.
Both before, but mainly after, the summer recess, I received a substantial number of telephone calls from people saying that their money had not arrived, even though the appropriations had been released.
In addition, there is still uncertainty about some areas, for example in my case about line B3-1000 and the European Youth Parliament.
I would be grateful, Commissioner, if you could give us some reassurance today that everything in your power is being done, and that by this evening, when we discuss this with our groups, we will, as Mr Wynn requested, have precise information about the parts of the budget which you do not envisage implementing, because the judgment simply makes it impossible to do so.
I believe that we need this clarity to be able to vote in favour of the agreement.
