Mr President, Madam Commissioner, the uninformed reader might well ask why we bother to present this report at all.
He will simply get the answer, "because it is part of the Treaty' .
But to me such a justification hardly seems adequate.
I would to like to examine in more detail whether the report is supposed to be a description or an evaluation.
If it is merely a description, then its results can be easily guessed at.
You only need to be a first-year organizational sociologist to know that if you ask an organization how things are looking, you will get the answer, "things are looking good' .
No, ladies and gentlemen, this report cannot merely be descriptive in its purpose.
I wish to see an assessment, an analysis of the EU's research policy.
I want to be given a compass, a chart for negotiating my way through the Bermuda Triangle which is European research policy.
When I compare this year's research report with last year's, a certain trend becomes apparent.
We see a whole collection of new listings.
Even the regional allocation of research funds has been broken down according to the various beneficiaries.
In my view three fundamental questions have still to be answered.
Firstly, when we speak to applicants for European research funds, the motto seems to be "frustration not administration' , because many selection procedures are non-transparent and rejections are not explained.
There is no emphasis on European research objectives.
I would like to see an inquiry into why this is so.
I want more than just an assurance of greater transparency and the simplification of procedures.
Secondly, the EU research policy is like a string of lights with 20 specific programmes.
I should also like to know which of these lights is the brightest, which one has the most impact and where can we add a few more bulbs.
We do not want another description.
We have had this one and that one and we have spent enough money on them.
No, what we really need is an evaluation of the potential impact of the individual programmes, and for this purpose we really require a coherent system so that proper comparisons can be made.
Thirdly, we need to re-examine the research task forces which were set up at great expense in terms of Commission manpower and also in respect of the official publications, which were an innovation in EU research policy.
When I look at this research report, I see that two whole lines have been devoted to the setting up of the task forces.
I think that we have given these task forces not just a first-class burial but a third-class one.
I think that this aspect, which Parliament fully supports, should definitely be looked into.
There is nothing wrong with different Directorates-General and Commission departments talking to one another - on the contrary, this should be encouraged, as should cooperation.
One can of course criticize the task forces too, but this initiative should be analysed in-depth so that we can obtain guidelines for the future.
Let me again ask the question: why do we bother bringing out this report?
Why do we sacrifice so many innocent trees to do it?
Have we really developed the Titanic mentality?
Everything is just fine, the bulkheads are holding, the rivets are okay and we are so happy that everything is doing so well.
No, I, for my part, want to know the problems and the risks, and I want to be able to analyse things and to look for improvements and for new ideas.
For, after all, nothing is so good that it cannot be improved on.
