Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the discussion in this House on environmental impact assessment has been an astonishing display of self-congratulation.
It was just last year that we decided upon environmental impact assessment for industrial plants, and in this directive we have defined a large number of other areas where the law is going to apply in the future.
But when it came to a Europe-wide definition of environmental impact assessment, we all backed out.
We called for subsidiarity.
The result is that the problems we have now are the biggest ever, and not only for us in Germany, Mrs Breyer, where we have been practising this system for five years now.
That just shows that you are not being realistic.
The rules are just being interpreted in completely different ways.
In Germany, an assessment is carried out and if you have not passed, then you have simply failed, and the building project is not implemented.
In all other countries this is handled more flexibly, sometimes better, sometimes worse.
I do not in any way wish to judge.
I would only say to you that we have created a single market and the aim is that rules within this single market should be comparable.
They do not have to be completely identical, because geographical differences also exist.
The issue here is not doing away with the EIA, rather it is a question of doing something sensible and comparable with the EIA, something where the rules are the same.
Then we would all agree with it and, what is more, agree quite willingly.
That has been taken up in many of the speeches here.
I believe that the legal basis of this directive is wrong.
The point here is whether we concern ourselves with town and country planning, not whether this can be rejected unanimously here or not.
This question of the environmental impact assessment of land-use plans is one that quite simply has to do with town and country planning.
We need only consult the relevant articles.
The Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights is in a much better position to do this than ourselves.
We should quietly wait for them to do this.
This report basically contains some good ideas, but it is not ripe.
At the moment, not a single Member State supports it.
Helmut Kohl and the French President were right to say that the Commission is meddling in too many things.
Member States are clever enough and wise enough to carry out such assessments according to their own criteria.
In due course, we should take up this report once again.
I think at best now we should abstain, although we should actually be coming out against this report.
