Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to explain the position of the Socialist group.
As our chairman has already said, this report was adopted unanimously in committee and there is broad consensus amongst all the groups in the House on this issue.
I would, therefore, like to start by thanking Harald Ettl for his very hard work on this very complicated issue.
And we should not forget the panel of experts chaired by Simone Veil which deserves thanks for its excellent work for Parliament and, I hope, also for the Commission's legislative proposals, as we are particularly keen to hear these.
At the moment, around 300 000 men and women are working within the Member States of the EU in a different country from the one they previously lived in.
Actually, this figure is much less than we once thought, and we have assumed from the beginning of the internal market that it would increase.
There are many reasons for this, certainly some individual, but also some political ones.
It is our task to look at the political reasons.
They are an issue which we have covered in great depth in recent months, especially in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and the Committee on Women's Rights.
The issue has been debated in detail in recent months in Parliament, and we are becoming ever more aware that national regulations and provisions raise an incredible number of obstructions; I would almost go so far as to say they amount to harassment.
This is one of the political reasons for the situation.
The second reason, Commissioner Flynn, and I will say this openly, is that in the past the Commission was somewhat hesitant and sluggish in dealing with this issue; any progress made was blocked by the Council - the same old story.
However, a small step has been taken and it is a good one.
In any case, it will ensure that employees in Europe will not be worse off if they make use of the freedom of movement which they have been guaranteed.
Of the three pillars of pension provision, the company supplementary pension scheme is still relatively small, especially in my country; in Germany it makes up less than 5-7 % of contracts.
But we know that in future these supplementary schemes will have a more important role than they had in the past.
What must be important to us is that...
(The President cut off the speaker)
