Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, I welcome the proposal of the Commission.
I would also like to congratulate Mr Ettl for his objective and balanced report.
He describes clearly the issue of migrant workers who under certain circumstances face reduced entitlement to supplementary pensions if they work in different Member States.
This naturally has a negative impact on the freedom of movement and often on necessary mobility.
In past years there were repeated calls for the supplementary systems to be assigned to Regulation No 1408, which previously only applied to the statutory social insurance schemes of migrant workers.
The multiplicity of supplementary pension schemes simply does not permit a straightforward addition of periods of contribution payments, as is the case under 1408.
This proposal for a directive contains only some initial steps - as several speakers have indicated - towards a common approach to supplementary schemes.
I would prioritize their urgency and the need for them as follows: firstly, protection of entitlement already acquired from company or supplementary pension schemes; secondly, transnational payments of pensions from company pension schemes, in other words, exportability of benefits as envisaged in Regulation No 1408; thirdly, the establishment of special arrangements for short-term employment postings to other Member States.
Mr Ettl's report sets out the objectives of the directive better and replaces imprecise definitions.
The directive contains some of the measures proposed in the Green Paper on supplementary pensions.
In addition, the Green Paper places particular emphasis on enabling transnational investment in pension funds, thereby improving freedom of movement.
This type of fund already plays an important role in several EU Member States.
In my own country, Germany, we have just started to develop these.
However a key to the new asset policy which so many parties are striving for is to make shares in this kind of unit trust attractive, particularly to employees with lower incomes, by extending the statutory range of investment facilities beyond asset formation by employees.
In my view, profit-sharing from property ownership for employees is an important way forward, if not as a second pillar alongside statutory pensions, then as supplementary income in old age.
The Ettl report does not cover this perspective of course, but rightly concentrates on the proposal for a directive from the Commission and improves it in some important points.
For this reason, the Group of the European People's Party will vote for the report.
