Mr President, first of all I should like to congratulate Mr Tindemans on his report.
Mr Tindemans is just explaining a few things to Mr Bonde who cannot, I believe, have read the report.
If he had done, he would not have been able to talk as if things were being imposed on individual countries.
But if Mr Tindemans is indeed explaining things to him, then he need not listen any further because he will know exactly what I know myself.
European security policy rests on three pillars.
The first pillar is the preventive security policy - the avoidance and prevention of crises.
The second pillar is a common foreign and security policy which, in my view, and here I agree wholeheartedly with Mr Tindemans, must be supported by a common defence policy.
As I see it, the third pillar is disarmament.
The existence of fewer weapons in Europe would make an important contribution to security.
All three pillars are underdeveloped and there is perhaps a difference between Mr Tindemans and myself in that I believe that he places too little emphasis on pillars A and C - that is prevention and disarmament.
But that is not to say that the second pillar is not important.
We must develop this common security policy within the EU, but also with the United States, with Russia and the Ukraine, and with the countries of the Mediterranean.
Why is this sort of foreign and security policy, supported by a common defence policy, so important?
First the question of credibility: If we have to deal with individuals like Mr Milosevic - and yes, Mrs Schroedter, we do indeed have to deal with such individuals - words and a show of goodwill are not sufficient.
He will not show goodwill unless he is sure that our words are backed by arms, and not just as a last resort.
Secondly, we need a more unified voice.
We have too many organizations working in an uncoordinated manner.
The EU, the WEU, in the case of Kosovo and Yugoslavia alone, and the contact group, NATO and various other institutions...
Too may institutions, with too many different memberships, making it impossible at the moment for them all to speak with one voice.
Thirdly, I believe that Europeanisation is very important.
A Europeanisation which does not stand in conflict with the USA, but which gives the countries of Europe greater weight within this alliance, and here I mean any European countries who wish to become involved.
But it is up to us to take this Europeanisation in hand, particularly in the field of the so-called lowthreshold defence policy - which makes Mr Tindemans proposals on the police, and the compromise, very important.
We cannot rely on others.
Another important point is greater democracy.
Cooperation between and, one day, the integration of the EU and the WEU would mean greater democracy if this House won more rights and greater influence as a result.
Lastly, Mr Titley said quite correctly that we have to learn to walk before we can run.
I agree with him absolutely.
But, there are so many crises where we have to learn to run quickly if we are going to be of any help.
So let us learn.
But let us learn quickly.
