Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I too would like to talk about the second Le Rachinel report.
The present proposal for a regulation remedies the lack of similarity between the separate national legislations.
The Community model for the distinguishing sign of the Member State licensing of vehicles and trailers in internal Community traffic, let us call it the European nationality plate, is long overdue.
Such a measure directly helps to include and raise the awareness of the citizens of the Union in the creation of an area without internal borders and to form and establish a feeling of European identity, while contributing indirectly to n increase in road traffic safety.
In particular, the demand that the proposed Community sign must be located both at the front and at the back on the left beside the registration plate will be an advantage for the police and other administrative and judicial bodies.
Although on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party I completely support Mr Le Rachinel's report and thank him for his work, it seems to me personally that the Commission's proposal for a regulation is not completely logical.
Let us just consider: in a few weeks the third phase of European economic and monetary union begins, which will lead to a domestic market, the formal external appearance of which will be the single currency.
What a magnificent achievement, proving our great farsightedness!
With the distinguishing sign for vehicles and trailers the Europeans are failing to achieve logical standardization in the form of a common, standard design principle.
Thus, with reference to the principle of subsidiarity, the EU Member States are obliged in fact to recognize the proposed Community model, but the validity of existing nationality plates remains completely unrestricted and continues to exist, independent of the Community model.
There is not even a reference to the fact that in the Member States the Community model should preferably be used.
In view of this fact, I could even understand if citizens from third countries were doubtful of the ability and/or seriousness of the efforts of EU to build a political union.
For the vehicle owners of the Member States who have already accepted, on a compulsory or voluntary basis, the use of the Community model - it is of course not a new invention -, the present proposal for a regulation takes up a long-standing desire for legal certainty and is recognition - let us call it personal - of the costs they often willingly incurred when buying this combined vehicle registration plate.
For me, too, it is desirable that third countries, above all the countries of the European Economic Area but also the associated countries of central and eastern Europe give legally binding recognition to the Community model.
I recommend that we accept this report.
