Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased to see that Mr Posselt breaks into spontaneous applause at the very mention of my name, which shows that contrary to all expectations he is a clever Member.
I refer to the events of this afternoon which resulted in our having to continue the debate now.
This afternoon we had the rather regrettable conduct of the debate to complain about and I trust you will understand if I linger a moment longer on procedural issues.
I can understand perfectly well that it is very difficult to organize an agenda in a packed business week in Strasbourg.
However, it is very difficult for Parliament to conduct a debate where the debate is interrupted in the middle of Parliament's deliberations when the individual groups should be beginning to give their opinion on the rapporteurs' presentations and when the Commissioner, who has actually come to hear Parliament, is given the floor, thereby turning the whole point of the exercise on its head, as the Commission is not hearing the debate but, quite the reverse, Parliament is hearing the Commission's position.
The Commissioner then departs and takes no further part in the actual debate.
This was all somewhat unfortunate.
I do not want to start apportioning blame now.
The whole thing was made worse - we shall have to reflect on this in general in the part-session - by the fact that Commissioner Gradin had to make her speech in an atmosphere which - with respect, Madam President - was more reminiscent of a cattle market than the dignified proceedings of the European Parliament.
Perhaps there will come a day when we will be able to discipline ourselves to show a minimum degree of courtesy on the day by listening attentively to the speakers whether they be Members or representatives of the Council or Commission.
That is the least that can be expected of a parliament worthy of the name.
So much for procedures.
I have three basic comments on Mr Bontempi's report.
Firstly, we know from the trends which will logically follow from the ever closer integration of the European Union that transnational and Europe-wide crime is likely to grow because its field of operation has expanded.
Where business transactions are possible beyond borders, illegal business transactions are also possible beyond borders, in other words the market for organized crime is growing at the same rate as the Single Market.
We are now considering and organizing the legal framework for the market but we are not organizing the instruments we need to combat the growth of crime in the required form.
Cooperation, judicial cooperation, in criminal matters is being criminally neglected in the European Union.
There is a second reason for this.
The reason is that the police and the judiciary are still mainly the province of the nation states.
In political terms this is understandable.
On the one hand, we are confronted by a supranational body, the European Union, while on the other hand, the nation states realize that they are losing national sovereignty as the European Union gains in importance.
However, the national governments have a certain defence mechanism which is expressed in the strongest terms where the nation states can best demonstrate their sovereignty, namely in their monopoly of power, particularly in terms of the police and the justice.
The nation states are not therefore sufficiently prepared to use intergovernmental cooperation at European level to agree on provisions under Community law.
However, this would be essential politically.
I have now reached my third point.
We must finally realize that the crimes, from which Mr Bontempi has said we must distill precise information, in other words the crimes that particularly affect the European Union and, being in the area of fraud, are mainly committed against the financial interests of the Union, must also be able to be pursued and prosecuted by the Union itself.
Only then we will not fail to agree on a system as quickly as possible in which we will establish operational criteria that will enable us to arrive at a proper criminal prosecution under Community law, which will then be supplemented by cooperation between police forces.
In this respect, Mr Bontempi's report is a major step forward in the debate.
I hope that it does not stay a debate but that we will soon agree on suitable forms of cooperation with the efficiency required in the fight against crime.
