Madam President, I must say that today we have done a great disservice to the cause of consumer protection.
It is really incredible what has happened in this House.
I would just like to read something which a section of the House has rejected.
Afterwards, I do not know how we will be able to take part in an honest election campaign in which we keep saying: Europe is working on behalf of consumers.
I would just like to tell you what has been deleted.
The treatment of goods with ionizing rays, we have said, must meet completely the requirements of human health.
Their use must be absolutely safe in terms of health and may not act as a replacement for health and hygiene measures or for good manufacturing or agricultural methods.
That is surely the minimum and the most logical requirement.
We have not even stated in the document that there must be no loss of nutritional value or loss of vitamins.
It is already bad enough that this happens.
But we have demanded the simplest solution and it was not accepted.
Nor has it been accepted that analytical control procedures must be carried out.
I wonder, why are we bothering to insist on compulsory marking?
This is utterly monstrous; what are we supposed to tell our people.
It is not even true to say that the Standing Committee on Food meets in public; it meets far more undemocratically behind closed doors.
I ask you: what are they up to?
We always say that we want the best, and most of all we want to protect health.
We spend huge amounts of money on better health provision and then we make mistakes concerning the most basic matters!
For a start, legalistic nitpicking drives normal motions into secondary importance, in other words, they become inadmissible, and this then leads to the most logical proposals being rejected.
So I really do not understand the world.
I cannot tell you how embarrassing that is or how we are going to go into a public election campaign.
They will all keep saying: Europe makes everything worse, it makes our food worse, etcetera.
I must admit, when I see something like this, I unfortunately have to agree!
