Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this first European Conference was an important contribution to the whole field of the enlargement and unification process in Europe.
It can be seen as a preparation, a part of a link in a new European order.
It was developed to involve one country, but I believe that we should make it clear that such a European Conference only makes sense in the long run if it is open to all those who from their own point of view or that of the European Union do not yet want to hold accession negotiations but feel that eventually they belong in the European Union.
If countries like Switzerland and others could find a link here, it would surely be easier for another country such as Turkey to go the same way, and to rejoin this process.
I think that the five points which were discussed in London are essential questions.
I really hope that the group of experts which the British Presidency has put together in connection with the fight against cross-border organised crime will produce in 12 months results which will then have a practical impact on the safety of our citizens.
Questions of environmental protection, competitive economies, foreign and security policy and regional cooperation are in the common interest not only of members of the European Union, but also of those who are holding immediate accession negotiations and those who are anywhere in the neighbourhood of the European Union.
I think that is obvious.
I really believe that in this way this European Conference also offers the possibility of bridge-building beyond the future borders of the European Union.
I hope that the foreign ministers at their first conference under the Austrian Presidency will continue this initiative accordingly.
I believe that if it is begun in this broader and content-based way, it will also be possible to rebuild the bridges to Turkey.
Unfortunately they were broken for reasons which we do not need to investigate today, but I hope that they will soon exist and be usable again.
