Madam President, I have been asked by many people why such an urgent resolution on Mochovce is being tabled now.
I believe this resolution has become important for the following reasons.
The inspection visits carried out last week and the week before by independent international experts have shown that progress has been made, not least because funding has been provided through the PHARE programme.
They also showed, however, that some questions have still to be answered, particularly that of evaluation.
The investigations revealed that some problems have still to be solved, particularly the lack of any containment in the normal sense, and that the systems which have been installed for this purpose have not been inspected to see whether they are capable of guaranteeing safety in the event of a serious incident, such as occurred at Three Mile Island or Chernobyl.
It is worth recalling here that the results of radioactive contamination from Chernobyl can still be detected in the European Alps.
Secondly, I think the results of these inspections should be submitted prior to the commencement of operating trials, so that any improvements deemed necessary can be undertaken before rather than after the event.
In this context, I must also mention that it seems strange to me that one expert was excluded from the visit.
This particular person was involved with the Greifswald nuclear reactor and his experience would be most valuable.
I should also like to point out that the last meeting of the Council of Ministers, which discussed the problems of integration and enlargement, dealt with the subjects of Mochovce and also the shutting down of Bohunice, in the event that other energy sources are available.
Everybody there was of the opinion that nuclear plants which are not safe should be shut down.
We are very concerned about the safety of the citizens of Slovakia, the transition economies, the European Union and everyone in Europe.
I do not want to see - and I think this goes for all of us - any irreversible steps being taken in Slovakia which might threaten the safety of all these people.
