Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, further to the excellent work by the High Level Panel chaired by Mrs Veil, Mrs Schaffner has submitted an excellent piece of work as the European Parliament's rapporteur.
Although I have to say that my opinions differ from Mrs Schaffner's on almost all aspects - I shall explain why shortly - I must compliment her.
She has produced some very careful work, and made it easier for us to understand the essence of the interpretation of free movement on the Conservative side of the Chamber.
So, many thanks to Mrs Schaffner for having made her report so clear.
Clear explanations are easier to handle, and help to highlight distinctions.
Mrs Veil makes 80 proposals and recommendations on how to overcome the difficulties confronting EU citizens, as described by the rapporteur and the draftsman of the opinion, in order to take advantage of the freedom of movement specified by the Maastricht Treaty.
I have the impression that the Schaffner report appreciates what Mrs Veil says, but then describes how the difficulties which Mrs Veil wishes to eliminate could be accentuated.
The crucial factor - and I am grateful to Mr Schiedermeier for having spoken so clearly when standing in for Mrs Glase - is that we do make distinctions.
Firstly, who benefits from freedom of movement?
"The citizens of the Union' , everyone says.
According to Mrs Schaffner, only nationals of an EU Member State are citizens of the Union.
People who are long-term residents of the European Union, legally and with all the necessary permits, are not citizens of the Union but third country nationals, and must therefore be treated differently.
Let us consider, for example, the US businessman who works for Chase Manhattan Bank in Frankfurt, lives there with his family, earns and spends his money there and participates in local life.
He is only allowed to do so in Germany.
If he is transferred to another country, a very difficult phase in this man's life in the European Union begins.
He must overcome a wealth of permit provisos from the European Union against third party nationals.
I deliberately mention the US businessman, because I do not want to make it easy for you always to speak of the people you are really thinking about in the debate about third country nationals.
That is why I refer to this US businessman.
I think it is a good idea to set up information and advice bureaux on European citizenship, although I do not think it is particularly sensible for European citizens to receive advice there from students, Mrs Schaffner.
I think qualified legal advice should be given by fully trained people, though I do not wish to belittle the status of students, who are sometimes cleverer than Members or lawyers, as we know.
The term "freedom of movement' in the Maastricht Treaty concerns people being allowed to exist with equal rights, as well as capital, services and goods.
That is why it is stated that capital, services, goods and persons have freedom of movement in the European Union.
We guaranteed this from 1 January 1993.
Your report shows that you can take goods, services and capital wherever you want in the European Union, at any time of the day or night.
Freedom of movement of persons, however, belongs to the Union of Mistrust, which you want, and which is far from reality.
