Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the significance of health policy in Europe is increasing.
This is stipulated by the Treaty of Amsterdam, and that is a good thing, because for too long the European Community has only concerned itself with the free movement of goods in the single market and too little with other aspects, which are, however, closely associated with this.
The question of subsidiarity is often raised, particularly when the European Union wants to intervene itself and should not just take the health policy in other areas into consideration.
I believe that with the three programmes which we have before us for discussion today, the question of subsidiarity does not arise at all in at least two, because with rare diseases it is clear that, if in a Member State there are only ten people affected, it is not possible to introduce a sensible programme.
If in the entire EU there are well over 100 people affected by the same disease, then it is worthwhile doing something and I believe that the added value of the European dimension is obvious here.
I shall concentrate on diseases caused by environmental factors.
We all know that this is a serious problem and that many illnesses are associated with a high level of harmful emissions.
I have some critical questions relating to whether the present programme is capable of tackling this problem adequately.
I believe, and that is why we in the Group of the European People's Party have tabled amendments, that we must make disease caused by environmental factors a focus of a new health policy in the European Union and that we cannot only deal with it in such a small programme.
Therefore, we believe that we must now undertake preparatory work for a really major programme.
In this way a really strong framework can be produced, which also comprises all diseases caused by environmental factors.
In this way, there can no longer be any distinction made between, for example, environment related diseases of the respiratory system and environment related cancers.
These must all come under one umbrella.
Therefore, we should approve the corresponding amendments tabled by the Group of the European People's Party.
It is important however that we do not simply carry out research and collect data; conclusions must be drawn.
We did that as a Parliament for example in the Auto-Oil Programme and we request the Commission to adopt our corresponding tabled amendments.
Smoking is also an environmental problem - at least passive smoking - and therefore I should again like to support Mrs Flemming's report.
It must distress you deeply, Commissioner Flynn.
Mrs Flemming makes such a wonderful proposal in point 10, namely that we finally cease subsidising tobacco, that reform is needed there, and you cannot say anything about it, because your colleagues will not let you!
Please carry on the fight for the removal of the tobacco subsidies: you have our support!
