Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Austria, Sweden and Finland joined the European Union just over three years ago.
Austria is the first of these countries to hold the presidency.
This is a highly responsible job, a difficult job, which, if it is done well, can earn great respect.
Some of the themes in the presidency's programme are bound to be dictated in advance.
Agenda 2000 represents an enormous project which needs to be negotiated.
President Santer hopes that this project will move forward apace under the Austrian presidency.
It is hoped that during the Austrian presidency we can establish not only options but also specific elements for constructive completion of this project, which will involve the difficult task of reconciling various different interests.
One specific example of this, because we all know that the devil lies in the detail, is structural reform of the Cohesion Fund.
Three of the four cohesion countries are participating in the third stage of Economic and Monetary Union.
This suggests that the basic requirement for this Fund no longer exists.
What is the presidency's position on this issue, and how does it intend to negotiate an agreement?
My second example is: how does the presidency intend to achieve a settlement of the so-called net contributor debate?
It is obvious that there is a wide gulf between Germany's demands for fair burden sharing and the Spanish proposal to tap new sources of income.
My third example is institutional reform.
The future of the Union and its scope for enlargement very much depend on this complex subject, and yet it scarcely features in the written presidency programme at all.
So I am all the more delighted that you have promised today to take on this subject, Mr Schüssel, in contrast to your previous statements.
My fourth example is this: many of you may not think it all that important that a country like Austria, which immediately borders onto the eastern European countries, is inevitably concerned about high safety standards in nuclear power stations near the border.
This is by no means a minority problem or a peripheral subject in Europe.
I could continue with this list of subjects almost ad infinitum , but my speaking time is limited.
When Austria assumed the presidency, there was a lot of talk in our country about how much scope the presidency offers to really influence things.
In their initiative at Cardiff, Jacques Chirac and Chancellor Kohl reminded us of the importance of bringing Europe closer to the citizen.
The Austrian President, Dr Klestil, also touched on this subject in this House a few months ago.
Transparency, bringing Europe closer to the people, the question of what powers Brussels should reasonably have: these are vital issues in building the 'House of Europe' .
Apart from today's solemn declaration of intent, there is also the question of what specific contribution the Austrian presidency will make to it.
Only when we get a concrete answer to this question will we know to what extent Europe's citizens are prepared to carry on building the 'House of Europe' .
