Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today, on 15 May 1998, we are dealing with a historic event that took place over eight years ago: German unification.
This was and remains a historic event.
Let us deal with a quite minor side issue which came about only as a result of this situation.
We have often dealt with matters which took place long ago, but it only really makes sense to do so if there is a danger that the event with which we are dealing constantly recurs in a similar form because there is a failure in the system.
Such a danger does not exist in this case, according to the information from the Commission and the Court of Auditors, which we have discussed at great length and in considerable detail in committee.
The Court of Auditors itself has said, in response to a question from the chairman of our committee, that it is very improbable that a similar situation will arise again.
To that extent, the whole matter is of historical significance, even if the report itself does not fully attain the historical significance of German unification, without wishing to offend the rapporteur.
What we are dealing with is the past.
But I should like to offer a few observations, to the Court of Auditors rather than to the Commission.
If you are dealing with this type of occurrence - and you cannot just sweep everything under the carpet because of the particular historic situation - you ought instead perhaps to complete the reports a little faster.
It is typical that we are only now dealing with it.
The reason is not that we were so slow, but that it took an infinite amount of time to progress from the first criticism of events, which cannot be denied, to a report from the Court of Auditors, and to the completion of this report and its submission to us.
That happens quite often, and that is why I really want to criticize this aspect alone.
If the Court of Auditors wants to make a sound contribution to our work, it must, like Parliament, have an interest in ensuring that our discussions take place as near to the time concerned as possible, so that justified criticism is not rejected with the argument that everything happened at some point in the past, and that it has all changed since then.
It is not always as easy, as in this case, to check whether everything really has changed since then.
I would like to thank the rapporteur, even though he is not here today, for the work that he has done.
Now we can all draw the same conclusions from it: if we had received the report somewhat sooner, we could have dealt with it sooner, and there might have been greater interest in it than there is today.
The report was unanimously approved in committee.
There are no amendments.
I would say that Mr Fabra Vallés has given us a thorough presentation of the facts of the matter, and we can only endorse that presentation.
