Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it might seem that everything that there is to be said has already been said this morning.
Unfortunately, not everyone has been able to contribute, not least myself.
There are some important points I would like to highlight.
The Arroni report deals with how arrangements for the changeover can be optimized, and it touches on some key issues.
Firstly, for example, it mentions the optimization of information strategies, and I believe that electronic media, via news broadcasts, can and should provide our citizens with precise answers to their questions, and this could be very helpful over the coming months and years.
Secondly, I think it could be very helpful - and I am making a special statement now - if the euro could be used as an electronic means of payment at major events such as the Hanover World Fair in 2000, at which 60 million visitors are expected.
That would be a marvellous pilot project.
Thirdly, I would like to emphasize again that the public authorities have a special responsibility in the changeover to the euro, and I am thinking of dual pricing here.
I believe, and several people have already touched on this today, that dual pricing could and should be applied for three years by authorities ranging from municipalities, cities, districts and regions to major state institutions, in setting and assessing charges and also in paying salaries and so forth.
In this way people will be able to familiarize themselves with the euro by 2002 and will be able to relate it to their national currency and convert as a matter of course.
It will also allow small and medium-sized businesses, which may not always be so well prepared, to get used to this process and to prepare more thoroughly for the changeover date in 2002.
And it will also encourage trade associations to play a more active part, which some are already doing or trying to do.
I also think it is important that national tax authorities in particular should be geared up to using the euro in tax assessments and suchlike as soon as possible.
Nine or ten Member States who will probably participate in monetary union are already doing this.
I hope that Germany in particular will be receptive to this system, which could be very helpful for the future.
The state should be in the vanguard here with a high level of state commitment and not trailing behind!
