Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with almost everything Mr Swoboda has said.
I should like to start by pointing out that the international community now finds itself faced with a task whose solution it has put off for nine years, and put off quite consciously.
I raised the Kosovo problem in this House in January 1991 and have raised it again on many occasions since and urged that something be done about it.
At the time, in this forum, the President-in-Office of the Council, who is now a Commissioner and for whom I have great respect, accused me of naivety because I said that what had happened in Kosovo was the beginning of the end for Yugoslavia.
Nobody saw it, nobody wanted to see it.
Nobody wanted to admit what was happening and everybody simply turned a blind eye.
It was not even included on the agenda in Dayton.
It should have been added to the agenda.
Yugoslavia should not have been recognized without Milosevic being required to make some progress towards finding a political solution to the problem.
Our foreign policy exists, quite literally, from hand to mouth.
It never takes preventive action.
It is always short of breath and lacking in a proper strategy or vision.
Eight years of peaceful, passive resistance by the Albanians have not persuaded us to come to their aid.
For years the Serbs have been torturing Albanian men and women and arrests have been commonplace.
A parallel school and university system operating underground offers young people but few prospects.
It has taken television pictures of bloody demonstrations to shake up the international community.
I welcome the united stance announced today by the Council.
It is also good that the contact group is finally dealing with Kosovo, even if the results are feeble and the threat of an arms embargo, for example, is quite laughable.
An arms embargo is hardly an effective weapon against a well-armed nation with its own arms industry!
The presence of the OSCE on the spot is essential; financial and economic sanctions are necessary.
Unfortunately, these are the only means at our disposal.
Serbia refuses to tolerate any involvement in its supposedly "internal' affairs in Kosovo.
It has declared the resolutions passed by the contact group null and void since it is a self-appointed group.
This is the price we must pay in the West for years of looking the other way.
If Milosevic does not soon start a serious search for a political solution with Rugova and others within the framework of international mediation, an escalation of the violence will be unavoidable.
After nine years of this apartheid regime, the Albanians have had enough.
There is nothing to stop the Albanians in Macedonia, in Albania and in Montenegro joining forces.
The conflagration would exceed the scale of the Bosnian war.
Milosevic alone is responsible for the internationalization of the crisis.
A tough response is all he understands, so our stance against him must be a united and tough one.
As a last resort there is always Mr Swoboda's option.
If all else fails we must help with military or police intervention those being tortured and murdered.
