Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank Mr Provan for his comprehensive report on fisheries monitoring under the Common Fisheries Policy.
In my opinion, and in the opinion of our group, it is a very good report.
It is a pity, therefore, that we are discussing it before an almost empty House.
I am sure that today will not be the last time we will discuss the problems which arise concerning effective monitoring of the Common Fisheries Policy.
The importance of comprehensive controls can be seen in the communication of the Commission.
Those who have read it carefully will recognise how great the difficulties actually are, particularly in the critical areas.
One weakness of the monitoring system lies in the fact that not all Member States apply it in the same way.
This is not only our point of view; in this, we agree fully with the rapporteur.
Direct responsibility for monitoring lies with the Member States, while the problems arise at Community level.
The Commission assessment shows clearly the main source of the problems.
There is no doubt that the Commission plays an important role in coordination at Community level.
In our opinion, its powers should not only extend to supervising national monitoring and to guaranteeing transparency and fairness, but should also require Member States to impose penalties for similar infringements.
Factors which are important in ensuring the effectiveness and acceptance of the monitoring system include: involvement of fishermen's associations, access to national data in suspicious cases, effective networking of monitoring agencies in the various Member States, and, in particular, equal treatment.
A particularly explosive issue is the monitoring of third country vessels.
There are also specific problems in this area.
We know that the monitoring that takes place is not watertight and will not be so in future.
The current system could be improved if instruments currently available were used effectively and improved.
We are very much in support of the rapporteur's demands but see a great need for further action, despite the considerable progress already made.
