Madam President, the previous speakers have already discussed in sufficient detail the content and advantages of this report.
I would, therefore, like to discuss only two points which I consider to be particularly noteworthy because they bring us significantly closer to a citizens' Europe.
The first concerns the citizen-friendly content of the planned directive.
It really is high time for this important area to be dealt with.
As a result of mass tourism and the free movement of goods, services and persons, the volume of traffic moving from one state to another is greater than ever before.
The danger is correspondingly high that citizens are victims of an accident which occurs outside the home country and from which claims could arise against other EU citizens or their insurance.
It is, therefore, particularly welcome that the directive will provide road users in the Union with such comprehensive, fast and effective protection and which will go beyond the mere direct right of action against the insurer, by having an agent of the insurer in the victim's country, by means of mechanisms to locate the latter, if necessary, and by means of a centre in each Member State which can itself deal with compensation should difficulties arise.
We would never have achieved this multi-faceted protection for citizens, at least not at this time, if Parliament had not taken the initiative itself.
I now come to the second point which I wish to discuss.
This is the first time the European Parliament has availed of the right of indirect initiative conferred on it by the Maastricht Treaty.
Parliament, as the elected representative of the citizens of Europe, is entitled to have the legislative initiative.
If the European Parliament makes frequent use of its new initiative it must in the long term strengthen its influence on the European Union's legislative system.
This increases, at the same time, the indirect influence of the voters on policy in Europe.
The result can only be to improve the standing of the European Parliament among the people and thus to increase its political authority.
I therefore expressly thank the rapporteur for beginning this initiative here in Parliament.
