Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday we dealt with an urgent motion in relation to energy policy here, and we tackled safety issues in the area of nuclear power.
We all know that the acquis communautaire must be applied in the internal market, so that the decision on whether to operate nuclear power stations is a matter for each Member State itself.
However, I consider it important that the European Parliament should repeatedly stress safety and should above all focus on its commitment to alternative forms of energy in relation to energy generation.
We believe that energy generation in the future is a very special issue to which we must pay a great deal more attention.
This also includes combined heat and power.
I should like to thank Mrs Estevan Bolea most sincerely for her report which points out very clearly how important production is in this area, as well as use in power stations for heating.
I believe that entirely new dimensions are possible in this area.
The prospects of increasing from 9 % to 18 %, in other words of doubling the present contribution of combined heat and power to the Community's overall energy generation gives me confidence as far as the economical and appropriate use of our resources is concerned.
That is why I have to support the course pursued by the Commission in the White Paper "Energy policy for the European Union' .
For some time there has also been an intensive liberalization of the internal market for electricity.
We have had not only the internal market for energy but also a liberalized gas market for a few days.
Combining these two areas with each other naturally opens up entirely new possibilities.
This framework creates largely free access to the market and welcome competition.
This competition means numerous advantages for the economy.
I believe that, as a result, Europe can be significantly more competitive on the international stage and that, as a result, there is the opportunity to create many new jobs, but in the process, special status must be accorded to combined heat and power.
It is in particular the combination of electrical energy and heat, which occurs in the case of combustion in engines, that has the advantage of double use and thus a very high energy output.
That is why the distribution companies should also accept this form of energy as a matter of preference, and I consider this passage in the report to be of special importance.
Combined heat and power guarantees efficient and ecological energy generation.
Whatever economic, legal or administrative obstacles stand in the way of its development should be removed as quickly as possible to ensure that it occupies a fitting place and acquires a sufficient market share in the internal market.
But I must not forget to stress that renewable energies overall and energy saving are a quite central issue and are an entirely new opportunity for Europe.
