Mr President, the situation in Kosovo represents a security problem of the first order for Europe.
The tragedy has proceeded according to the familiar pattern of Serbian politics we have already seen played out in Croatia and Bosnia-Herzegovina: targeted displacement of the population and massive streams of refugees shifting the crisis to neighbouring countries in the region.
So far the NATO manoeuvres have been purely symbolic in nature.
The flying ban imposed on the Yugoslavian Airline JAT, and confirmed by the Council of Europe, is a feeble gesture.
The fact that in Cardiff the European Council left open the carefully circumscribed possibility of a military option demonstrates the extent of the international community's paralysis is in relation to the crisis in Kosovo.
This crisis management is an embarrassing reminder of our reactions to Iraq and Saddam Hussein.
By waiting for the Security Council's green light on military intervention we have effectively provided Russia with a means of preventing NATO's involvement and, at the same time, we have given the Serbian leadership additional time by allowing the meetings between Yeltsin and Milosevic.
The withdrawal of the Serbian Special Police from Kosovo was made conditional upon the actions of the Albanian underground organization, the UCK.
The conflict within the EU on whether military intervention by NATO should take place with or without a mandate from the Security Council has given Milosevic more time in which to continue his policy of expulsions unhindered.
In these circumstances, the call to the international community to use every means at its disposal to put an end to the attacks against the civilian population is in danger of remaining completely unheeded.
The start of negotiations between Belgrade and representatives of the Kosovo Albanians should be made conditional upon a moratorium on the fighting.
The statements made by the European Parliament are a feeble substitute for the lack of political will being shown by the EU Member States to avoid another tragedy in the Balkans.
