Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is of course a good thing that the Conciliation Committee succeeded in obtaining a modest increase in funding for the Socrates programme, though as Mrs Pack quite rightly says, this is not in fact a real increase.
Nevertheless, we must accept the result.
Unfortunately I fear that this decision indicates that there has been no improvement in the European Finance Ministers' basic understanding of the enormous significance of the European youth exchange scheme for European policy, integration and employment.
If the European Community is only prepared to provide for youth policy actions no more than 1/270th of the amount which it allocates to agriculture policy, then this is simply disgraceful.
As we prepare for the entry of central and eastern European nations we now need more than ever a greater exchange of people and ideas in the field of education and a greater interchange with the young people of those countries, in order to overcome the historical alienation which exists between the different European peoples.
But I would also advise all politicians with an interest in employment affairs, who quite rightly deplore the scandalously high level of youth unemployment, to take a very close look at the correlation which exists between the increased availability of work experience in other countries and the new employment opportunities for young people in the European job market.
More and more employers are including overseas work experience and knowledge of a foreign language as essential job qualifications, and let us not forget the importance of cooperation between schools and colleges in Europe for the introduction of innovative teaching and education methods and for the overall level of qualification being achieved.
There is no doubt that EU education programmes such as Socrates have proved an overall success.
The Socrates programme is a first-class way of promoting integration and, in conjunction with the Erasmus programme, for example, it has certainly promoted the concept of Europe among the young people of the Union.
But the scheme is only open to a few, because it is hopelessly underfunded, and this has had fatal consequences.
Study grants are underfinanced and even here we see social selection taking place.
The average grant is between ECU 50 and 100.
Such a situation is socially incompatible and tends to undermine the impact of the programmes.
We have all heard the complaints of our own constituents and we know of many applicants who have missed out here.
The critical funding situation is even beginning to threaten the popularity of the programmes themselves.
In view of the allocation ratio of 1 to 10 in the case of Erasmus, some colleges and even a number of vice-chancellors' conferences have considered withdrawing from the programme.
We all want to see study periods spent in other EU countries recognised once the student returns to his country of residence.
We therefore need more money to support schemes such as the European Course Credit Transfer.
And we also want to see more students being provided with grant assistance for foreign trips, provided that these are being organised for practical purposes.
I believe that we should fight for a substantial increase in this programme budget.
