Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to cordially congratulate Mrs Hermange for her excellent report.
She assimilated the suggestions of the members of the Social Committee into her report, and so the overall report was never contentious.
My group is therefore against the first three applications to amend which were submitted, and in favour of application No 4 because this is a sensible supplement to the report.
In June 1992 the Council adopted a recommendation to promote systems relating to the participation of employees in operating profits.
It resolved - and I am presenting a summarized account of this - to create legal structures for the introduction of such systems of participation, to examine the possibility of whether tax incentives could be introduced, to promote the systems by way of an information campaign and to take into account the findings from other Member States, to ensure that legal and administrative provisions were formulated in such a way that a broad range of systems would be available and would be the subject of consultations between employees and employers, and in particular to take this into account in tariff negotiations.
After three years all national data were to be made available to the Commission for a new overview.
These national findings are now presented in the Commission's report and they are, to put it mildly, inadequate.
Apart from France and Great Britain, practically no Member State has taken any initiatives and there is a complete absence of an international exchange of information.
Unfortunately, the outcome of this report proves once again that recommendations which have no binding legal force are adopted by the Council only for show.
After the adoption of resolutions the Members of the Council submit cloudy press releases and leave the recommendations to disappear in the bottom drawers of their desks.
But we want to see action!
The participation of employees in operating profits itself is accompanied by improved productivity.
It encourages employees to obtain qualifications, at least these are the experiences from France and Great Britain.
And also, at a time of high unemployment it could, with the introduction of the company participation systems in smaller and medium-sized companies, also ensure better and more secure employment
We therefore expect the Council to adhere to its own resolutions of 1992.
But from the Commission we expect more than merely a report with a description of the facts.
It should carry out investigations on the effects of the PEPPER systems, set in motion a programme for the exchange of information, set up a working party to promote the introduction of PEPPER systems particularly in international companies and consider a Community initiative on capital formation policy to solve the problem of participation rights for migrant workers as well.
Model projects should also be developed for the central and eastern European countries.
However, we expect the social partners to provide information and inform themselves about the PEPPER systems, as well as having regard to these systems when conducting their negotiations.
