Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is a matter of real importance that the European Parliament is discussing aviation and space travel here this evening, since this is without doubt a European issue.
I myself come from a region which has always played an important role in the aviation and space industry and where today everyone recognizes that only through European cooperation will we be able to maintain our competitive position vis--vis the United States, or at least have a chance of recovering it.
On behalf of them, and also speaking for my own group here, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his comprehensive report.
I believe that all aspects of the problem have been examined here in an appropriate manner.
We in the Group of the European People's Party will also lend our full support to this report.
We have deliberately refrained from submitting any amendments because we do not want to jeopardize the resolution which was adopted by majority vote in committee.
I do not wish at this point to go over again all the major problems facing the aviation and space industries.
Mr Malerba, Mr Desama, as rapporteur, and also Mrs McNally have all addressed the problem in a very articulate way.
However, at this juncture I should like to refer to another matter, namely the need to achieve full equality of opportunity, particularly with the United States, in the growth markets of aviation and space travel.
It is not right that the USA should be basically funding research and development through its defence budget, thereby giving it an advantage over the European aviation and space industries.
Parliament has already dealt with this matter in connection with another report drawn up by the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
I myself have proposed various amendments in the Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy.
While these proposals were unfortunately rejected, this is still a subject which merits our attention.
It is unacceptable that we in Europe - and indeed this is the basis of a communication from Directorate-General XII - should have no standard procurement system, while the United States obviously combines its research, development and procurement activities and ensures that many developments from the military sector are adopted by the civilian industries, a fact which gives that country clear advantages over the European aviation and space industry.
We must have no delusions in this respect.
We have to find a European answer to this challenge.
I hope that with the ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty and the development of a common foreign and security policy we will be able to find a European solution to this problem.
