Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we still share your hope, Commissioner, that the OECD agreement of 1994 will still come into force.
We also appeal to the Commission and to the Member States to try again to exert pressure on the USA, so that this agreement is ratified.
Even if we succeed in this we have a further difficulty.
We really must insist that the new shipbuilding nations, such as the People's Republic of China and Poland, endorse the OECD agreement, as it is no use having only some of the countries sign up to the OECD agreement, whilst the People's Republic of China and Poland continue with their own shipbuilding policies.
We must probably now say, however, that the prospects for the OECD agreement coming into force are very slim and it is somewhat questionable whether the new shipbuilding nations will sign up to comparable regulations.
We therefore need, as the Commission proposes, a new shipbuilding policy.
But it is very important to have a shipbuilding policy which is both inward and outward looking.
I myself come from a shipbuilding city.
It is the very last time, as the Commission says, that there will be a special five-year arrangement for shipbuilding.
After that, the shipbuilding industry can no longer say "another five years and another five years' ; that cannot go on indefinitely.
It is right to propose one more special arrangement now.
We also share the view that order-related subsidies should be abolished by 31 December 2000, even if some amendments tabled in this House still seek to shake our conviction through more and more new studies.
We know what the situation is, Commissioner; we do not need any more studies.
If we look at the shipbuilding programme, there are still subsidies for lay-offs and restructuring, for innovation and environmental protection; that is enough subsidies to apply over five years.
And, I should like to say to the previous speaker, you in Mecklenburg really have no need to complain at all that your subsidies are too low.
I say to you and also to my Spanish colleagues, and I mean it very seriously: it is time for change.
Therefore, we also support the original proposal from Mr Sindal - and I hope Niels can listen and will not be diverted by the women again.
So, Niels, listen!
Commissioner, we in the Christian-Democratic Group support his proposal to delete paragraph 7.
There must no longer be a loophole for additional subsidies, because it is so difficult in the regions.
It is a sector-orientated policy which we are deciding upon and there can be no new distortion of competition within the European Community.
We regard that as very important, and I hope that tomorrow there will be a majority in this House for it.
Commissioner, I believe we need a clear external shipbuilding policy, because unfortunately there is no guarantee that the other countries will end their subsidies.
At present we are in agreement, and I hope the Commissioner will say something to us on this matter.
The whole House is of the opinion that, if the European Member States now help the Asian countries in overcoming their financial crisis, those countries must not be allowed to abuse this in order to create advantages for their shipyards over ours, by ridding themselves of their shipyard debts and through other protectionist measures, especially when it is our taxpayers' contributions which are helping them to overcome their financial crisis.
We cannot allow that.
We must, however, also consider - and Commissioner, I should be very interested to hear your view on this subject - whether we might use the WTO or the instruments of the Union's trade policy to bolster our own position slightly, and add to our ammunition.
We cannot indefinitely allow the unfair competition practices of other states to put our shipyards out of business.
I believe - in fact I insist, Mr President - that in this area of the Union's foreign policy we need a new concept, and I hope that the Commissioner will say something to us on this matter.
