Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe the two statements have shown that there are very many points of agreement between the institutions of the European Union.
Firstly, it is important that the right of asylum is fully safeguarded in this Europe.
Secondly, however, it is important that we put an end to criminal organizations, which cannot be tolerated or sympathized with because they commit the ultimate sin of exploiting human misery out a lust for profit.
Thirdly, I should like to fully support what the President-in-Office of the Council also mentioned: it is a question of combating the causes of migration, as you also stated, Mr Commissioner.
I believe we must all endeavour to solve the problem of the Kurds - the economic, social, political and cultural problem of the Kurds, not only in Turkey but especially in Turkey.
However, I would like to take this opportunity to state quite clearly that to many people it appears to be no coincidence that this immigration occurred a few weeks after the Luxembourg summit - this reaction appears to be no coincidence.
It may indeed have happened with the knowledge of the Turkish authorities.
We must follow up several reactions closely.
We must be patient.
We must continue the dialogue with Turkey despite all the problems this involves, because a problem such as that of the Kurds can ultimately only be resolved jointly, with mutual support and assistance.
We must also convince Turkey that it is not only an internal problem, not only a problem to be resolved politically or even militarily, but a socio-economic and cultural problem which is to be resolved; and that Europe wants to help, not oppose Turkey, and would like to point Turkey in the direction of assistance.
Fourthly: the burdens.
The Commissioner also addressed this matter and others have addressed it - if we want to combat the xenophobia, which there most unfortunately is, and in some cases also the hysteria which accompanied it, we must consider how the burdens and the responsibility incidental to the refugee question can be better apportioned.
We also addressed you on the matter, Mr Commissioner in the Committee for Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
I believe that more must be done to make it clear that in the event that some countries - Italy has on many occasions acted in an impeccable manner in this connection - becoming directly affected by floods of refugees, other countries in Europe cannot say that this does not concern us, that is their problem, or perhaps react in an even more negative manner.
In Europe we must assume responsibility for this jointly, and jointly create a rational asylum policy in this Europe.
This has not yet happened, and there will be other colleagues addressing the subject.
The common foreign policy must ensure that the right of asylum is safeguarded in this Europe, that no fortress of Europe comes into being, but that a rationally controlled immigration policy ensures that xenophobia is eliminated and that we are an hospitable Europe, but for those who really need our help and support.
