Mr President, in the reply to our contributions yesterday to the Lannoye Report and in particular to the proposal concerning honey, Commissioner Bangemann replied that it was not the objective of labelling to settle questions relating to the quality of the products, or even measures to support the beekeepers.
I must say that I was rather amazed at these statements because I - perhaps I am naive - have always assumed that the objective of labelling is actually to inform the consumer, including information about quality and origin.
If this occurs the consumer is indeed automatically informed about the quality of the product.
This then implicitly supports the high-quality honey of our beekeepers and the protected designation of origin, which the Commission indeed itself publicises with expensive advertisements and glossy paper.
A good use of European tax monies moreover, especially as the Commission also urges honey to be accorded just as much respect as St. Ambrosius.
This is implicitly a measure which can help to ensure that enough bees continue to be kept, thereby guaranteeing the valuable occurrence of pollination.
I am very pleased that colleagues here have lent such massive support to our applications, in order to ensure that the consumer can still distinguish between the high-quality agricultural product of honey from our Member States from the cheap imported honey of inferior quality.
I am also pleased that Mr Lannoye and the Parliament have resolved not to put the legislative decision to the vote.
We are therefore now spared from what happened to me with my report on the improvement of the production and marketing of honey in June.
Actually the Council completely ignored the fact that we had unanimously adopted 22 applications and my report here.
A few days afterwards it adopted as Point A the regulation in a downright undercover action, as the Commission had recommended to it.
In September I then discovered in talks with agriculture ministers that most of them had no idea that they had rejected our proposals.
(Interruption by the President)
