Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, today we are examining the success or failure of the Customs Union with Turkey.
I should like to congratulate Mr McMillan-Scott on his report and to thank him for our close cooperation.
Since I am to present the next report to the House, this cooperation was very important to me.
As far as economic success is concerned, there is every reason to conclude today that, as Mr Titley has already said, after an initial phase of disequilibrium, a balance is gradually being established in economic relations between Turkey and the European Union.
To that extent the Customs Union can certainly be termed a success.
In social terms it is also possible to speak of success, in so far as those elements in Turkish society with an interest in a Western-style democratic republic have been strengthened.
I refer primarily to the entrepreneurs, employers' associations and trade unions, who can now cite the benefits of Customs Union to back up their call for a modern Turkey, for a country organised in accordance with the rule of law.
From a political point of view, however, I sadly have to note that progress on the way to parliamentary democracy, respect for human rights and the will to resolve the internal and external political problems and conflicts in a peaceful manner are not as much in evidence as we would wish.
For that reason, let me appeal most earnestly to the Turkish Government to remember that it not only needs good economic relations with the European Union, that it not only needs to develop democracy in Turkey but that it also needs to live in a peaceful environment if it is serious about joining the European Union.
I should like to stress once again that Turkey certainly has the potential to accede to the European Union and must be equipped to do so.
We shall assess Turkey against the same criteria, the Copenhagen criteria, which we apply to all the other candidate countries.
But Turkey should also make greater use of the existing Customs Union in order to carve out its own path towards the European Union.
