Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, quite some time ago, when we discussed the forest fires in Indonesia and I pointed out that there were other reasons for the situation, some of them social, I received a written reply from the Commission, stating that the European Union was already trying to obtain more money to assist the fire services in Indonesia.
The President of the Commission is just leaving, but I should still like to remind him that this was the position of the European Commission on a serious economic, political and financial crisis.
The President-in-Office has told us today that the crisis is far more profound than was originally thought.
Much of what Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has said can be fully endorsed.
But without laying claim to omniscience, I should like to emphasise clearly here and now that at least some of this could have been avoided by careful examination, Commissioners, without the blinkers of liberal or indeed ultraliberal economic ideology.
It was and remains unacceptable that we have hidden for so long behind an American position that is high on rhetoric about human rights and democracy but sometimes turns a blind eye, or even two, in the case of so-called allies.
What are the causes?
I can only subscribe to what Mrs Ferrero-Waldner has said.
First of all, there was the direct trigger of speculative capital movements, then the failure, deliberate or otherwise, to create all the necessary institutions and conditions.
The future President of the European Bank in London recently stated that we in the West were pleased about many of the spectacular privatisations in Russia and did not see that the essential economic and political institutions were not being created.
We must also be openly critical of regimes that are partly corrupt, of combinations of economic, political and military power in the hands of certain elements within the administration and of inattention to social needs and human distress in some countries.
Many of these patterns were identical from Indonesia to Russia without our really having noticed.
The answers that I have received, especially from the Commission, are not entirely satisfactory.
What are we to do about speculative movements of capital?
I am a supporter of free trade, and I support the principle of freedom, which includes the free movement of capital.
But we in Europe have taken decades to achieve such freedom.
We cannot force it on other countries overnight, especially not developing countries.
Are we prepared to take specific action against speculative, shortterm capital movements and to create a framework of global rules governing such movements?
I have not received a reply to that question.
The second point concerns institutions.
Let me reiterate what has been said here, namely that appropriate national institutions - a central bank, commercial banks, banking authorities, etc. have to be created.
But something has to be done internationally too.
We in the PSE Group find it intolerable that there should be a free economy and free movement of capital without even any elements of an international regulatory structure.
We ought to strengthen the IMF and the World Bank, but they would have to be reformed at the same time.
It is illogical that all speculators, whether they be banks or individuals, should receive immediate aid from the international banking system when they incur losses, which encourages them, as it were, to carry on speculating.
They have nothing to lose.
Many unemployed people in the world and in Europe do not receive the support that speculators enjoy worldwide when they speculate against weaker currencies.
What does the European Union say to that?
Will it press for these institutions to be strengthened in this way, but in conjunction with reforms designed to ensure that we do not rush to lend a hand wherever currencies collapse under the combined weight of corrupt regimes and speculators?
That, of course, is unacceptable.
My third point relates to the separation of politics, business and the armed forces.
I have heard a thing or two in this connection.
Let me stress emphatically that it is absolutely imperative to ensure that reforms take place.
The fourth point concerns social measures.
The administration and the economy of those countries must be geared to reducing the alienation that has developed between the government and the people and to supporting the socially deprived; we cannot tolerate any visible vestiges of alienation and marginalisation.
There is a delegation from the Duma here today, to which I should like to extend my own personal welcome and that of my group.
You bear a great responsibility, not only for your country and not only for Europe, but also on a global scale.
I would ask the representatives of the Duma to support the newly appointed government in a spirit of constructive cooperation and to ensure that the aims we have referred to today are actually achieved.
