Mr President, I have to live with the name of Piecyk, which is pronounced incorrectly again and again.
This does not represent a problem.
Mr President, in contrast to Mr Cornelissen, I am not surprised by the Commissioner's statement.
It was almost what I was expecting.
However, Commissioner, I believe that politics must be capable of measuring the decisions it makes against real life, and of having them measured.
It may be said that a decision was made under certain circumstances and things did not happen as we perhaps expected or intended.
I have the impression that you are ultimately shying away from acquiring data, under the motto of what the eye does not see, the heart does not grieve over.
As has frequently been mentioned here, I find it remarkable to have to press for something to which the then Commissioner committed herself in 1991.
We received this commitment from the Commission several years ago.
It is also a question of good faith between Parliament and the Commission.
There is another question.
All those people, including myself, who are committing themselves to the retention of duty- free sales, because of their concern about the imminent job losses with which they are confronted, are working with shock figures provided by the duty-free industry and pressure groups.
That is the real reason for saying that we need a correct, verifiable and wide-ranging survey, so that we can reach a reasonable, rational conclusion.
I do not know whether 140 000 jobs are really at stake in the Union.
I do know that several thousand jobs will be lost in the daytrip and ferry crossing business in my own area of Schleswig-Holstein on the Baltic Coast.
I do not know which airports and airlines will be affected, but I do know that smaller, regional airports, connections to remote areas, and Baltic ferry traffic, especially with Finland, will be particularly affected.
I do not know what the precise fiscal effects of the abolition of tax- and duty-free sales will be, but I do know very well that assistance for the transport sector in the affected regions and for social security contributions from the unemployed will be back on the agenda, as you have indicated.
For all these reasons I say that we need a proper, correct survey before we go on arguing about the whys and wherefores.
I can imagine that you want this.
However, the Transport Council has demanded it, Parliament will demand it and, if my understanding is correct, we have a joint motion for a resolution tabled for tomorrow morning by many groups.
For this reason, the Commission should not continue to refuse at this point, but should provide this study, so that we can then hold a reasonable discussion about it.
