Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the conclusion of the Agreement with Jordan is a positive step, since this Agreement is an example of how the European Union can conclude treaties with other countries - in this case with the Mediterranean region, in particular - which are below the threshold for accession.
I think that this can, and must, be a model for the future.
We cannot only intensify cooperation when there is a prospect of accession to the European Union at the end of the process; instead, we must find other ways of proceeding.
This Agreement is an example of how close relations can be achieved on the basis of an accord.
Agreements of the same type have already been concluded with Tunisia, Israel and Morocco, and this new Agreement thus fits in with the European Union's policy on the Mediterranean.
A Cooperation Agreement with Jordan has existed since 1977.
Four supplementary financial protocols have already been signed within the framework of this Cooperation Agreement.
After a transitional period, the aim is to establish an area of free trade which should be achieved on a step-by-step basis.
I believe that this is an important move towards a Euro-Mediterranean free trade area, which is what we are aiming for.
The Christian Democrats in this House, the Group of the European People's Party, has always supported and worked actively towards this goal; I should like to emphasize this point very clearly once more.
However, there are criticisms which we can make in relation to Jordan, and which we should not gloss over today.
The rapporteur made brief reference to this at the beginning; however, her report does not make these issues as clear as I would have wished.
I think that two points should be made in this connection, and I shall name them: the restrictive press laws in Jordan, and, above all, the ban on all forms of political assembly.
I think that the discussion process with Jordan can be a way of initiating talks about these issues too.
They could thus be dealt with through political dialogue in such a way as to ensure that democratic conditions are achieved as we would wish and in line with the conditions set by the European Union, at least in the final phase, when it concludes agreements of this kind.
I am pleased that this Agreement has been reached and that solutions were found within the framework of the trade talks too, for I believe that Jordan, in particular, must be given our support.
Jordan has always been a reliable partner in the Middle East and also contributes to the stabilization of this region.
I am looking forward to the dialogue between the European Parliament and the Jordanians.
