Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, any discussion of Kyoto and Buenos Aires should of course also take account of the measures we are adopting.
There is one sector in the European Union in which CO2 emissions are increasing out of all proportion, and that is the transport sector.
Since 1990, they have increased by 11 %.
In the first quarter of 1998 in the European Union, transport alone was responsible for pumping 179 million tonnes of CO2 into the air, which means that each of us - whether a Commissioner, MEP, baby or pensioner - consumes around 150 kilograms of petrol every three months.
We have to make a start here; we have to do something!
We have a commitment from the European motor vehicle industry, which wants to tackle the problem.
I was even somewhat surprised by the scale of the industry's undertaking.
To that extent, my assessment is rather different from that of Mrs Breyer.
The motor vehicle industry is offering to cut average consumption by 25 %, purely by taking technical measures.
If, in addition, we take political measures - whether it be tax incentives or car labelling - the impact could be even greater.
The approach itself is very sensible, but as so often, the devil is in the detail.
A look at the agreement and how it is to be implemented prompts a number of questions.
It states that a revision will only be possible from 2003 and that, at that time, checks will be made to see whether these technical measures are proving effective.
Unfortunately, the procedure to be applied here is not clear.
In the agreement, it states that the details will be settled in an exchange of letters between the industry and the Commission.
In spite of the high degree of confidence that we have in the Commission, we cannot regard simply having a future exchange of letters as satisfactory.
Secondly, the motor vehicle industry makes several assumptions, about fuels and about various other things, which have to hold true.
The Commission says, ' the assumptions will definitely hold true', but what happens if they do not?
That is left completely unresolved.
We need clear rules to cover this eventuality.
Nor is it clear what happens if individual firms, or the motor vehicle industry as a whole, fail to comply with the agreement.
That raises the question of sanctions, namely how we can punish somebody for implementing technical measures which prove to be insufficient.
We need to improve the situation and establish rules.
A third point: how do we actually deal with non-European manufacturers, who after all also sell their cars here?
There would certainly be a distortion of competition if the German, French or Italian manufacturers were to make reductions and others not.
They should, therefore, also be covered by the agreement.
Only when these three outstanding issues are clarified, will Parliament be able to endorse this agreement.
