Mr President, I believe that Mrs van Lancker has not only worked hard but also well, which is most important.
I would like to refer again to her thesis of the signal function.
I believe that frontier workers are in some ways like bio- indicators which record the level of free movement and equal rights in this Union.
It has to be said that this level seems to be under a high degree of pressure.
If we take that as our measure, then there is an urgent need for action.
This is not the first time that we have agreed on this matter; we withdrew the report by Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, for example, until we could reach a more positive understanding with the Commission.
In this case, it is mainly a matter of social security and taxation, and their interaction.
These are not matters for local authority politics.
We cannot place these questions on the shoulders of frontier local authorities; the Member States have to face up to their responsibilities at long last!
Moreover, in everyday life it is also a matter of access to healthcare, security for family members, early retirement, supplementary pension systems, access to unemployment insurance and taxation.
All of that is caught up with the problem of unanimity in the Council of Ministers, even though in other areas everything that is needed to implement the internal market is not subject to unanimity but can be decided by majority vote.
It seems to me that there is a systematic problem here.
I think that the proposal of a compensation fund for disadvantages suffered or for an early warning system through the consultation procedure in advance of relevant legislation is a good proposal.
I am not convinced by the tendency of the European People's Party Group to delete essential elements by means of draft amendments, on the pretext that a global solution which might some day be achieved will be prevented by adopting interim solutions.
We should support the proposal as it is.
I think that Mrs van Lancker has elaborated the essential points.
If we adopt it as it is, we shall be taking a step forward.
