Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at the end of a long list of speakers, including many from my group, it is up to me to say something new.
That is not an easy task, but I think I can manage.
First of all, I would like to set out the position of the Group of the European People's Party.
Some differences certainly emerged in this debate.
It has been quite a struggle, but I can inform you that my group is in favour of the Lange report and the Hautala report.
We have not been able to support all the details.
However, we are first and foremost in favour of mandatory values for 2005 in both reports, and I think that is the key issue.
I am glad that we have achieved this result and that we will therefore be giving this our 314 votes at tomorrow's sitting.
I would like to make a comment now on competition.
I believe it is right that we have discussed the competitiveness of German industry and industry in other Member States; it is also right that these industries have presented the problems to us and that we are looking at this in a global European context.
But there is an important difference between this and our normal debates.
We often burden our industry with conditions that other players on the world market do not have to comply with, which therefore restricts competition.
This case is totally different, because if a company or a refinery outside the EU wants to sell petrol within the EU, it has to comply with our conditions.
So it is not a question of a distortion of competition that will push up our production costs, but rather a sensible means of protecting the environment and enhancing our capacity for innovation.
Finally, I would like to make a comment to the Commission.
I am sorry that Mr Bangemann is not with us.
I would like to say this to him personally, but you can pass it on to him, Mrs Bjerregaard.
We have a new European Union health policy, thanks to this Parliament.
Even Mr Bangemann changed his view.
He brought forward some good proposals on baby food and the labelling of maize and soya.
Please tell him that we would be delighted if he decided to share Parliament's viewpoint.
Perhaps that will make him realize what is needed, and enable us to get a really good result in the Conciliation Committee.
