Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we have already heard quite a bit about the importance of charitable associations and foundations.
They have important functions in socio-political and employment terms.
The rapporteur has taken this on board, and I can only praise her for her commitment in this area.
Unfortunately, she was less than cooperative during the debate in committee and she did not take into account any ideas which were further-reaching or tried to go into more depth.
I only want to look at the most important of these again: it must be clear that we do not want to create a new network of national agencies to manage and coordinate this sector, but rather that this network should grow from the existing agencies through cooperation.
I warmly welcome the proposal to improve access to Structural Funds for NGOs, but we must also be realistic about the allocation of these funds.
Often very little is left over for those who really need it, especially in small projects, after the cost of administration in terms of both allocation and sponsorship.
Consultants and the sponsors themselves are financed from it.
And this leads me on to my most important point.
In point 14 of the conclusion, the rapporteur mentions that part of the funds for SMEs should be held back for third system SMEs.
Firstly, there is no such thing as third system SMEs.
It is a case either of the profit or the non-profit sector.
Secondly, the existing funds for the SME are currently so small that the charitable sector cannot also have a share of it.
Thirdly, notwithstanding the euphoria about the effects on employment of the third system, we must differentiate between two things.
This sector has an important role to play in reintegrating people into employment and in promoting enterprise.
Management in its truest sense is often carried out under the most difficult of conditions.
However, long-term, subsidyindependent jobs are created primarily by private industry, especially the SMEs.
We all agree that the NGOs have an ever more important part to play in the citizen/state relationship, and we must promote this.
Autonomy and solidarity are core principles of this.
For this reason, we in the PPE group are voting for this report despite some points of criticism.
