Madam President, we can only overcome conflicts by working together.
The Varela report also says as much.
In view of the disagreements between the EU and Canada, which at their climax in March 1995 resulted in an infringement of international law, the present decision by NAFO must be particularly welcome.
Extending the pilot project for satellite location of fishing vessels in the NAFO regulatory area has set the course for a calm sea in terms of international fisheries policy.
This was probably also the reason for continuing the project.
Which is a good thing, because it can consolidate the present peaceful situation.
Our goal must be to introduce compulsory satellite monitoring of specified fishing vessels in the NAFO regulatory area.
This is required anyway for monitoring stock conservation measures.
We shall be voting next week in the Committee on Transport and Tourism on the first Commission communication on the introduction of a European satellite navigation system for air traffic.
This technology is necessary for Europe and is impressive, and not just in my opinion.
As far as the NAFO area in concerned, three years are enough to make a decision about satellite monitoring.
This decision is urgently required, because at the NAFO annual meeting in September this year a uniform EU line on monitoring and enforcement in the fisheries area should be adopted.
The Committee on Fisheries therefore supports Amendment No 1, because creating uniform monitoring systems in the NAFO area is a further step towards a conflict-free future.
Likewise, the Commission's report on monitoring carried out in that area should finally enable us all to draw conclusions.
Parliament and the Commission are therefore asked to act accordingly.
Turning to the Teverson report, it is certainly true that it is time we had definite and comprehensible monitoring methods for the Common Fisheries Policy.
What is the use of laws and agreements if they are not socially effective?
Many of my visitors are amazed that people smoke everywhere in this Parliament, although there are many signs forbidding it.
And what do we see on the European seas?
There are no signs, but we all know about the directives on the Common Fisheries Policy.
But they are often ignored, or are inadequately implemented or monitored.
The credibility of a whole system is called into question by such behaviour.
It will only be possible to prevent over-fishing if fisheries activities are tightly monitored and effective sanctions are introduced.
It would be even better, as the Commission says, if support - including financial support - were given to those Member States which act responsibly, and the number of them is increasing, thank goodness.
In addition to this principle of carrot instead of stick, a detailed Commission action plan would help to improve the situation.
We wait for it to be formulated.
In its report, the Commission praises the cooperation between Member States with the aim of achieving more effective monitoring.
However, it is an open secret that some Member States unfortunately still have the wrong attitude to fisheries policy.
But otherwise, our work would remain unloved and ignored, like the notices forbidding smoking here in Parliament.
