Mr President, I too should like to congratulate the rapporteurs, and thank all those who served on the Conciliation Committee.
Their task has not been easy, and they have completed it quickly and successfully.
I would, however, like to introduce one further point into the debate.
The Auto-Oil package has, I believe, allowed us to prove for the first time that modern industrial policy is really environment policy.
Only by taking account of the environment and recognising the need both to preserve the natural foundations of human life and to protect human health from possible damage can an industrial policy be formulated which will be valid for ten, twenty or fifty years, rather than just one or two.
I believe that we should take this as an example and examine the possibility of putting together similar packages in other sectors.
I think the chemical industry would be very much in favour of a one-off comprehensive regulation, which would allow it to initiate and plan its long-term development - again, not just for the next few years, but for the next ten, twenty or thirty years.
It would thus develop in a way consistent with the principle of sustainability, something we have already discussed on many occasions and enshrined in all the Treaties.
A package of this kind makes it possible to balance out interests; it makes it possible to show clearly how the various industries involved in production interact, and to weigh them up against each other; it makes it possible to initiate developments which must, as in the case of Auto-Oil, be undertaken by the motor industry and the fuel industry together.
These are the methods we should adopt, and we should apply them to several sectors.
I believe that this is the real policy of the future, industrial policy coupled with environment policy, or rather environment policy which determines industrial policy.
I should not, of course, like to miss this opportunity to note that one of the derogations granted to Austria in the negotiations was extended as part of this package.
It means that we will not contravene Union legislation next year either, because we may continue to use fuels with a low benzene content.
One final comment: this was a first step; further steps - also in the field of development and mobility - will follow.
They must, for the future of our industry and, above all, for the future of our people.
