Mr President, the Rocard report before us is a good report on the orientation guidelines of future cooperation agreements.
It is more than a report about the ACP.
It refers to the post-Lomé period, and I think that here we should support a ten-year transition period.
This is basically a report about the new framework for forming a new South-North policy.
Mr Martens made a start on this in his report.
Mr Pinheiro has introduced something new here, something very good, I think, by instituting a broad dialogue in the Member States in the run-up to the Green Paper.
If a good policy is to come from this good report, I hope that we can convince the Council together with the Commission that its content must be put into effect politically.
Mrs Short, this is a major task for you.
However, in development policy, a basic contradiction can be identified in the European Union and also in this House.
On the one hand we try to integrate ourselves and the ACP countries into the world market.
We have accepted this with the WTO formula.
We see the consequences at this moment in the discussion on bananas.
On the other hand, we want to take account of the regional situation and drive development forward here.
The regional situation is in the foreground in this report too, and I think that is right and important.
Bilateral free zones are not what we must support.
I therefore consider that paragraphs 59 and 77 of the motion for a resolution are important.
The proposal in paragraph 59 is that the extension of the exceptional regulations for the ACP states is necessary, because development cannot happen otherwise in these countries, the poorest of the poor.
We should put this proposal into effect.
Paragraph 77 deals with the aims of development policy, the aims of development, about which we must jointly inform the WTO.
I do not regard the WTO as a democratic institution.
Consistency in trade relationships is necessary and appropriate.
We should take note of that in respect of our fisheries policy, ecology and human rights.
We and the ACP states should note that.
Regionalization is an important starting point.
It is a question of developing new instruments.
I believe that support for the process of African unity is important.
But we are creating our own contradictions there as well, in the MEDA programme for instance.
Here too there is a need for consistency.
I am glad that the amendments have been included in this proposal, that the Joint Assembly is explicitly mentioned, and I think that it must also be maintained to form the political process.
Much too little is said about armaments policy, restriction of weapons sales and the effective control of the weapons trade.
The Commission has made specific proposals here.
That is to be welcomed.
Making a link between the targets of armaments restriction and development in the health and education fields is something very important.
The credibility of countries must be measured by this too.
In view of the imminent failure of the code of conduct, I would like to point out that in Amendment No 18 we put forward many specific proposals, and I ask you to support this amendment, and also Amendment No 17, which concerns the prohibition of antipersonnel mines.
It is a view expressed by this House and belongs in the Treaty.
My colleague Mrs van Dijk has pointed out the problem of women, the role of women in the development process.
There is much more to be added here too.
There is more in it than in the Green Paper.
The role of women must be more precisely defined, because they contribute to the development process.
Partnership is an important precondition, including partnership with NGOs.
Finally, I would like to emphasize again that we have always supported the budgetization of the European Development Fund.
That should also be put into effect.
I would like to have a reply from Mrs Short, on behalf of the Council about whether she will take the initiative, at the latest...
(The President made the speaker stand down.)
