Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once before in Europe, 128 years ago, to be precise, there was another position which needed to be filled.
On that occasion it was in Spain.
And on that occasion the French government sent a telegram to Bad Ems which, as a result of a few changes, created the necessary mood to start preparations for war.
Once again there has been a dispute over an appointment.
Once again it has involved the Germans and the French in particular.
But this time, two days later, the two main protagonists sat down together in Avignon and made plans on how they would proceed in Europe in the future.
This shows, I believe, how enormously different things are this time.
In other words, how much progress we have made in Europe.
Issues which once led to wars are now argued out in joint institutions, then differences are set aside and work is resumed.
This shows the level of political stability we have achieved in Europe today.
This political stability represents a foundation stone for the economic and monetary stability we are endeavouring to achieve within the European Monetary Union.
It is not simply a question of personnel.
The Maastricht Treaty, the Stability Pact, stipulates a framework which includes the independence of the Central Bank, the European System of Central Banks and so forth, and, in my view, guarantees that it is built on solid foundations.
However, we should also make it clear that the independence of the European Central Bank will have to be defended.
Mr Duisenberg's paper gives the first possible date for stepping down, but not the final one.
So he is correct in his definition when he says that after four years things will start to look up and that we will then be able to defend the independence of the Central Bank should any national government try to exert unreasonable pressure on its head and his good team.
Allow me to make one final observation.
There is only one reason for the great fuss which surrounded the appointment of the President of the Commission and which has surrounded this case, and that is that these questions still have to be decided unanimously.
For this reason, in the next institutional round, to ensure that the situation is not repeated, Parliament must stress the fact that in future such personnel appointments should be decided by a majority decision at Council level.
