Mr President, once again I can comment on a report which originates from Sue Waddington.
I again applaud her precise work and expressly her constructive criticism of the weak spots in the Commission's document.
The approach, Madam Commissioner, is to be welcomed as an initial attempt to analyze progress in vocational training in the Union and Member States.
It is understandable that there are shortcomings wherever systems and measures vary too greatly in quality and quantity.
However, it is not acceptable that there is no clear distinction between business sectors and between target groups - from those actively employed to older people.
In this connection CEDEFOP and EUROSTAT must be incorporated to a much greater extent.
The situation of women should be particularly emphasized.
As a result of their employment often being part-time and seasonal, they are often excluded from learning about new technologies and acquiring new knowledge, although they have just as much intellectual potential as well as a high degree of flexibility.
In the Commission's report there is no review of the joint programmes, i.e. European Year, LLL lifelong learning , or the ADAPT initiative.
Various colleagues have already pointed this out.
The coordination of the training programmes - such as LEONARDO DA VINCI - with the programmes in the structural funds is also still outstanding.
Further important actors are the social partners.
They are in agreement about special support for SMEs, in agreement about new training methods and the better mutual recognition of diplomas, but not in agreement about the decision-making levels.
Right at the top of the agenda must be a framework agreement geared towards the demands of modern work organization.
At times of crisis further vocational training is judged to be the most dispensable area in the public sector as well, a grave error.
For how can the shortage of specialist workers in companies otherwise be remedied?
Given increasingly shorter product cycles, changes in production and higher market demands, how can employees keep up to be prepared for the 21st century?
In the global competitive environment the consistent promotion of the most important resources - human resources - through further training is essential.
In addition, it is indispensable for intellectual and physical mobility and the personal development of the individual!
