Madam President, I should like to start by reminding the House that our group voted, by a large majority, for the timely introduction of the euro with eleven Member States.
I mention this fact by way of introduction, since this whole debate is taking place in the midst of a media circus where individual issues are drowned out by the argument for or against the euro.
The question which needs to be addressed is a specific one.
What is our reaction to the outcome of the hearing?
In order to assess this, we have to be clear about what we actually are.
Are we a personnel recruitment commission?
No.
Are we the board of a central bank?
Hardly.
We are a democratically elected political body.
Which means that we have to discuss the political programme advocated by the candidates.
If we were a personnel recruitment commission, we would have to vote for the candidates.
They were all competent individuals.
If we were the board of a central bank, we would also have to give a positive signal, because a negative signal at this time would encourage speculation.
As a democratically elected political body, however, we have to look at three questions.
Firstly, what is our view of the nomination procedure which Mr Duisenberg himself described as having left "an unpleasant taste in the mouth' .
As far as I can see, the unpleasant taste is still there.
And whatever efforts are made to get rid of it, the fact remains that Mr Duisenberg felt obliged to assure us that no political pressure had been exerted upon him.
That in itself leaves a rather nasty taste.
Secondly, we need to be aware that this nomination procedure, which is far more restrictive than the provisions of the various treaties require, was rushed through at great speed.
That, too, leaves a nasty taste in the mouth.
Then there is the big problem of monetary policy.
The Maastricht Treaty provides for a small amount of leeway which is in fact greater than the candidates like to admit.
Fighting deflation cannot simply be equated to playing down inflation!
Yet that is what most of the candidates - including Mr Padoa-Schioppa - did.
We highlighted this distinction in our amendments and we must not forget it in our responses to the arguments put forward by the populists on the Right that the euro will be weak.
Lastly, we must also see that on matters of transparency and democratic accountability the candidates were arguing mainly with a view to the financial markets and the general public, and that they envisage only a loose form of dialogue with the European Parliament.
For this reason the only response can be a negative one.
In our own group, opinions on the matter are divided, not in terms of the actual analysis, but in terms of the question which is actually being asked.
