Mr President, Mr President of the Council, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Oostlander has already suggested, we have in mind various objectives which need to be achieved in the various accession partnerships.
The first objective, already mentioned by Mr Oostlander, is to ensure a precise, thorough and very specific adherence to the Copenhagen criteria, to which I would add the decisions taken and the resolutions passed in this House - not least those dealt with in September.
Although we did not alter the Copenhagen criteria, we did add some very important, specific environmental and social issues among others.
Secondly, there is undoubtedly the issue - one which was a key element in the committee's discussions - of the exercise of our parliamentary rights.
And here I use the term "rights' not simply in the purely legal sense, but rather in the sense that we, as representatives of the European people, have a right not only to involve ourselves in these affairs, but also to decide which countries can accede and when.
Thirdly, - and this is an aspect which my group, headed by Gary Titley, has repeatedly introduced into the debate - there is the question of setting the tone, and doing so without delay.
That is why we were so inflexible on certain issues: it was important to show the applicant countries that, following last December's decision, we do not intend to become embroiled in long debates on points of order and on formal and administrative matters, but rather that we want to take a decision quickly.
Finding a common position from which to deal with these matters was certainly difficult and the subject of long and extensive debate.
However difficult things sometimes became with some of Mr Oostlander's motions, I do believe that we have now found a common position and established a common framework.
In addition, it also looks as though - and I assume that this will be confirmed today - the Council and the Commission, which are perhaps understandably a little shy when it comes to Parliament having its say, will be able nevertheless to approve our procedure.
Speaking from my position - and I have also found myself on the other side, where things look a little different - the following is important: these accession strategies must help us to avoid the tensions and overcome the divisions which exist in Europe in terms of the economy.
Although some countries are making an effort, in no way can the alignment process be said to be fast or effective enough.
Now to the social sector.
This is very important for us, since social tensions do exist, and there is a social model for Europe with different nuances and emphases.
We do not want to abandon this social model for Europe.
We want to make sure that the other countries too can and do implement our social standards and basic social rights.
This is particularly true, let me be quite open about this, for the border areas.
We need stronger cross-border cooperation, particularly to encourage those people who live in the border areas, and whose concerns are perhaps not altogether unjustified, to speak out clearly in support of enlargement towards the East.
Of course, it is also a question of democracy.
In that respect Mr Oostlander is perfectly right.
Our group in particular has always defended democracy, freedom and human rights in all situations.
That includes Slovakia where we are currently experiencing particular problems.
We are not blind in one eye either as regards Slovakia or any other country.
We must give Meciar an urgent warning that he is acting against the interests of his people.
Even if he is observing the constitution, in political terms his actions are unacceptable.
I hope that this contradiction can be overcome.
Quite clearly, as regards these accession partnerships we want to give out a clear signal again today.
Our will to enlarge the European Union towards the East, including Cyprus of course, remains unbroken!
We stand by it!
We do not want delays.
What we do want is thorough and detailed preparation - the foundations for that have already been laid, and the views of this House supplement these foundations nicely - so that enlargement to the East can proceed quickly, but on well prepared foundations.
