Mr President, Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it had already been said with great clarity and at some considerable length that the Commission's proposals are a step in the right direction and that the amendments on which Mr Tomlinson, in particular, has put in a very great deal of work, have improved and where appropriate modified them.
Mr Tomlinson had made some criticisms, directed in part at those working for the Commission.
I, however, in a sort of positive amendment of my own, would like to single out two representatives of the Commission and their colleagues for praise because they are doing excellent work.
They are the European Commission's representatives in Tel Aviv and in Jerusalem.
On two visits I have noticed that a huge commitment is being made to represent Europe well.
It is for this very reason that the Tomlinson Report is so important today, because it should provide the appropriate financial and other backing required to ensure that the European Commission really can use the money it is spending and its political and moral commitment to best effect.
Both here and in other areas - as we have already discussed in another context - our representatives are hampered by the fact that many decisions are too cumbersome and too time consuming.
Parliament itself is sometimes guilty, that I admit, but we must succeed in making our decision-making process quicker and less bureaucratic, particularly when it comes to financial aid.
A second point.
You, Mr Commissioner, still hold the view - and I and my group support you fully - that we must not allow ourselves to be squeezed out of the peace process or our commitment.
That is quite right.
But perhaps we could see things in a more positive light.
We are a part of the peace process and there is nothing anyone can do to change that!
We are part of it by dint of our political, moral and financial commitment.
Perhaps what we should be doing is improving the visibility of our efforts and activities.
We are doing so much not only for the economic infrastructure, but also for democracy and human rights, that we really should also be increasing the visibility of what we are doing if we want to build bridges, to create the infrastructure.
The Commission's representatives have made some appropriate suggestions in this respect.
If we spent just part of the money on demonstrating what we want to achieve with it, namely that we have a European obligation to peace, not only in the interests of our identity as a group, but also more generally for our public image and our image in Israel and Palestine, then our aid would be much more efficient.
I would urge you, Commissioner, to continue with your policy, but to examine how we can better present the policy we are operating, particularly in critical phases, particularly in countries where the official propaganda perhaps presents our work in a somewhat more critical light than the population at large sees it.
