Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, I should like to make a few remarks expressing my fundamental support, and that of my group, for the current policy, together with a few critical observations.
One: I think you are absolutely right to make it quite clear that the Kosovo Albanians will not be abandoned, that they have our support and that we will not allow them to become a second Bosnia.
Two: I also think we are right to maintain a critical or pessimistic view of Milosevic, and that we must therefore support all the available alternatives both within the country itself and in neighbouring countries.
Though there is little hope in Serbia, there is some in Montenegro and in Republica Srpska - even if they are not all angels - but we must support alternatives to Milosevic.
Three: We must help its neighbours to stand firm in this crisis and stop them from tending towards extreme attitudes.
Here I have in mind Albania and Macedonia.
We must also tell the Macedonians that despite, or perhaps even because of the crisis, they must pay greater attention to the minority rights of their Albanian population and make progress in this area.
Despite their effort, it is not enough.
Four: I think that NATO is right to hold manoeuvres.
Unfortunately, and I have to say this, although I am an anti-militarist, in certain circumstances it is necessary to engage in a little sabre rattling.
Five: I also believe we are right to prepare for military intervention if Milosevic does not give way, and therefore I also believe that we must do everything possible to ensure that NATO makes all the necessary preparations for such intervention.
Six: I should like to appeal to Russia - and I assume that both the Council and the Commission are making this clear and unambiguous - to shoulder its responsibilities.
If Russia wants to play a significant and increasing role in overall European security policy - and I think it would be good if Russia were to do so - now is its opportunity to show it.
Because for those who are friendly with Serbia or with Milosevic as the President of Yugoslavia, now is the time to put this friendship to the test, by speaking up for peace.
My seventh and last point, Commissioner, is the following.
You have said that the EU is doing everything it can.
And it may well be true that it is doing everything it can at the moment, but - as we have already mentioned on a number of occasions - this is a crisis which we undoubtedly saw coming.
We know that Milosevic needed just such a crisis.
Looking at the outcome of the Cardiff summit, Mr President-in-Office, and reading Point 47 which states that progress has been made and further resolutions will be passed at the Vienna summit, then in truth I have to say that I find the whole thing rather weak.
Rapid progress is essential on the planning unit in particular, so as to prepare for an active foreign policy.
We will only be able to prevent a second or a third Bosnia or a second Kosovo if we have a strong foreign and security policy.
So, to conclude, Mr President, I fully support the principle of subsidiarity.
But we should consider where we need a stronger EU.
We need a stronger European Union in foreign and security policy.
