Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
Mr President-in-Office, you said that the Union itself has to become capable of enlargement.
We, the European Parliament, will be doing everything we can to ensure that Agenda 2000 is adopted by the end of this legislature.
However, let me ask the Council not to forget that there are deadlines to be observed, and that Parliament must have an opportunity to have its say at the end of the whole process.
The final whistle will blow in May!
You said that the German presidency would table the decision in March.
All well and good, but that is the last chance if Parliament is going to decide by May.
After that, time is up.
So, and I am saying this as a German, do not leave too much to the Germans!
My second comment is that thanks to Kohl and Chirac you now have a extraordinary summit.
It will talk about making the Union more efficient, more able to act, bringing it closer to the people, and demarcating its powers more clearly.
It really reads like a list of jobs not done in Amsterdam.
You should have been able to get all that done in Amsterdam!
(Applause) But you did not get it done.
Well, it is good that we are talking about it now.
I am reminded of Schiller's Wallenstein , ' The Piccolomini' , Act One, Scene One: ' You have arrived late, but you have arrived!'
Well, that is something at any rate.
If the discussion at the extraordinary summit simply leads to some improvement in the Council's work, that alone would be an excellent outcome of the summit.
Thirdly, I will mention subsidiarity.
I would like to stress that your own comment means that the European cause has to be taken seriously.
Subsidiarity does not mean less Europe; it means more Europe, with Europe really achieving something.
Let me give you two examples.
Our citizens expect that with the introduction of the euro, Europe will now agree on a common fiscal, budgetary and economic policy.
We need a sort of economic government.
But it is not only Bonn that is balking at that, but others too.
It is not enough and it is wrong to constantly complain about Europe's impotence in the Balkans and at the same time to refuse to give Europe more power.
That applies to the foreign ministers as well.
Nevertheless, I wish that governments would stop talking about what Europe cannot do - especially at the extraordinary summit - and instead talk about what Europe should do!
Finally, Mr President-in-Office, it is not so much a question of uniting Europe to avoid history repeating itself, but rather a question of making it clear to our citizens and to ourselves that we must unite Europe so that Europe can assert itself in the world of the future!
(Applause)
