Mr President, Mr Frischenschlager, let me go a little further into this question.
Transit transport within the Community can really only be resolved by certain new provisions in the road cost directive, the Euro-Vignette.
The suspension of the transit traffic diversion caused by the Swiss regulations would also ease the situation.
But this can only be done in the framework of the negotiations between the EU and Switzerland.
Austria wants to keep the Brenner toll at the existing level and to put an end to the traffic diversion resulting from the restrictions applied in Switzerland.
At present, as we know, Switzerland restricts heavy goods vehicles to 28 tonnes.
Austria believes it is crucial to have a comparable charge level and structure in Austria and Switzerland.
Higher charges in Switzerland should result in equally high toll rates for the Brenner Pass.
At the Council of Transport Ministers on 10 and 11 December 1997, the ministers called on the Commission actively to pursue the negotiations with Switzerland, while strictly observing the principle that Swiss charges, like Community charges, must be geared to infrastructure costs.
A breakthrough came in the EU-Switzerland talks at the meeting between Mr Kinnock and Mr Leuenburger, the Swiss minister of state, on 23 January, in the form of what is called the Kloten compromise.
It brought political agreement on an average charge of ECU 200 for the longest transit route through Switzerland, namely Basle to Chiasso.
Other points agreed were: the 40 tonne quota for transit through Switzerland, 120 000 journeys a year for the time being, then 300 000 from the year 2003, and no restrictions from the year 2005.
The ban on night driving ban was to remain in force in Switzerland.
That too was part of the settlement.
Moreover, in case train use declined, Switzerland was to be granted a protective clause.
In March this year, the Commission believed there was little room for manoeuvre left in the talks with Switzerland and that the ECU 200 road toll was now a fixed rate.
It regarded the calculations submitted by Switzerland as by and large plausible.
The Commission also pointed to the advantages of concluding an agreement with Switzerland, especially because if the talks failed, Switzerland could autonomously levy a road toll, that it could then also take account of the external costs and that this would put any further tunnel building in Switzerland at risk.
On the other hand, the conclusion of an agreement with Switzerland would mean that as from the year 2005, 40-tonne HGVs could drive through Switzerland quite freely and the road-use charge system would be fair.
So the Commission regarded the transport negotiations with Switzerland as concluded, although Austria and most of the other Member States do not agree.
During the discussion, several Member States called for further improvements in the draft agreement and, in the event that this was not possible, for it to be rejected; these states were the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Spain, Greece and Italy.
The others were in favour of accepting it.
We too believe that there is little margin for improvement.
That means that our acceptance or rejection of it depends on whether a satisfactory solution can be found to the question of the Euro-Vignette.
I must say that the matter you have just raised again is more or less what we have already discussed.
It is now up to the Commission to see whether there is a chance of achieving a uniform rate acceptable to all parties concerned.
As I said, there was only a short, informal debate on the subject and the next step envisaged is the initial consideration of overland transport under the Austrian Presidency in the Council of Transport Ministers on 1 October, although again merely as a policy debate, since presumably the question of charges will not be debated formally before the German elections.
