Madam President, after three legislatures, believe it or not, we are today reorganizing the last large sector of industry in the Union.
The Member States have given the Union the task of bringing their markets together into a single internal market, and of enforcing the freedoms of the Treaty, namely the freedom to trade and the freedom of settlement, in all sectors.
The gas sector must surely be the last one where these two legal objectives have not yet been enforced.
This directive thus represents the keystone of the internal market.
I would remind you of the lesson we have learnt from our knowledge of economics: wherever there are monopolies, it is easier for mistakes to be made because the costs have to be met by captive customers.
On the other hand, competition forces mistakes out into the open, because it puts companies which make the wrong decisions at a competitive disadvantage.
As a result, competition puts pressure on prices and provides a motive for suppliers to come up with the best solutions.
But when does competition arise?
At the point when the consumer can choose the same product from different types of supplier.
And that is what this directive achieves, by establishing that state of affairs - namely freedom of suppliers and thus freedom of choice for the consumer.
A different directive achieved this at the level of production at an earlier stage.
The gas directive achieves it in the area of transport and distribution, on a step-bystep basis, by abolishing legal monopolies and making it possible in practice to circumvent pipeline monopolies, since branch pipelines can be constructed, and there is a right to the freely approved construction of parallel infrastructure.
As a result, however, it is clear and important that practical monopolies will be abolished since, by being opened up to everyone, the pipelines can be used by third parties, with adequate protection being given to the owner as he receives a payment which covers his costs, and since the long-term supply contracts are given adequate protection.
A great many Member States were concerned about this point.
In my opinion, the degree of protection it receives in the directive is in fact exaggerated.
Finally, there is also protection for Member States who set particular store by the ability to impose public service obligations on the companies.
After three years of discussion, the Council has unanimously agreed a highly skilful compromise, a very wellbalanced and sensitive compromise.
We have decided - I speak for my group in committee and here in Parliament - to approve and support this compromise, because the way to construct Europe is to advance step-by-step.
What could have been improved?
In my opinion, the distributors have not been dealt with sufficiently well - but that is not the opinion of everyone in my group - and it could have been further improved in the area of combined heat and power.
However we recognize that important interests on the part of the Member States justify the arrangements proposed.
Mr Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, what happens next?
Firstly, we expect clear statements from the Commission about regular and early reports, so that further steps can ensue.
Secondly, in those cases where states make use of the exemptions in relation to combined heat and power, we expect a report to Parliament so that that, too, can be discussed by it.
Parliament would like to follow this issue.
Thirdly, without further delay, we expect Commission reports on the need for harmonization in the areas of the environment and tax.
Fourthly, I want to make it clear that with this directive we are agreeing a level to which the applicant countries of the former Communist bloc in central and eastern Europe will have to adhere, and for which they must now prepare themselves.
Fifthly, I would like to voice my hope that the reformed and more efficient firms in the gas market will also become capable, as a result of this reform, of tackling the world market, where in my view they have so far been inadequately represented.
I thank the Commissioner, I thank the entire Commission, and I thank all the Members - first and foremost, Mr Desama - who have shown such a commitment to this directive over the years.
