Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as was the case in the first reading, we now find ourselves caught in an area of tension between efficiency and the environment.
We in the Group of the European People's Party welcome the current report and the amendments which are being proposed, although we regret that only two of the nine proposals submitted in the first reading are being considered; these two amendments are in my view very important ones.
They prevent aircraft leasing and therefore have a direct effect on the problem of competition, which has just been mentioned.
I would also be pleased if the Commission could clarify this point and explain that there is now absolutely no possibility, no matter what the circumstances are, that the exemptions which certain countries have in respect of competition and the environment, can be used in a manner which is contrary to that intended by the Directive.
In all events, we regret that certain proposals aimed at tightening up this legislation have not been generally adopted.
In our view, what the Member States propose doing in this sector should on no account fall short of the provisions of the directive, and at best should exceed what is intended in this directive.
I therefore consider that this cannot be prejudicial to the directive in the strained situation which exists in respect of efficiency, the environment and also free competition.
The current wording is a reasonable compromise.
It includes a number of minor corrections.
However, it would be in everybody's interest if we could in some way clarify the definition of "developing countries' .
What has been submitted in this proposal seems, I believe, already to have met the approval of the Commission.
I would be pleased if the Commission could briefly comment on this again today.
It would be a good thing for all of us if the Council could incorporate into this definition the meaning of "developing countries' , so as to prevent any wider interpretation here.
After all, we are talking about aeroplanes which are not just a noise nuisance, but which are on the whole more than 25 years old, and in this context I am of the opinion that even a country like Saudi Arabia should not receive special treatment.
As far as the other countries are concerned, one should not really judge the problem according to the freight situation at the different European airports, but rather one should see to it that perhaps within the framework of various actions - and does this House not also distribute aid for development - certain countries which are directly affected could be provided with support in this area so that European airports, as well as those of the countries concerned, can be afforded some relief from the problem of noise nuisance.
