Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as Brecht once said, there is nothing I love more than discontent with the changeable, and nothing I hate more than deep discontent with the inalterable.
A majority of the members of our Green Group will be supporting today's euro proposal.
Our Group embraces a variety of opinions.
But the majority will support the proposal.
They will do it with conviction, not in a light-hearted manner but guided by Brecht's thinking.
We have always supported the idea of a single European currency.
But we have from the outset warned of the economic and social risks of a monetarist policy.
The euro is coming, that is an inalterable fact.
It is coming in a form which is better than had been feared and that is down to the fact that discontent among the social forces in Europe has led to real changes.
I only wish that the European Parliament would adopt this desire for change, for we should be playing a bigger role than that of mere film extras.
With eleven countries participating, the euro is not going to be a divisive factor for European integration.
It will not be separating the core from the periphery.
This is a good thing.
We welcome the fact that when deciding on participation the Treaty's margin of interpretation was used to the full.
And that too is a good thing.
No-one should be playing another card, as electoral candidate Waigel - the European ringmaster - tried to do again yesterday.
We want no additional conditions which would restrict the political and fiscal freedom of the individual participants.
Everyone is calling today a historic occasion.
Everywhere you can sense the desire of great men to make history.
I only wish that these same people would learn something from history.
The edifice that is the European Union should not end up like the Tower of Babel.
It remained unchanged, for those who built it were confused.
They did not see eye to eye.
The overall plan had got lost.
There were disputes.
The work was slipshod.
The builders disappeared and the Tower went to ruin.
We have to know what we are building and why.
The history of the European Union does not end here today.
It has to go on, and that will require the coordination and reorientation of economic policy, the strengthening of the role of the European Parliament and the democratic inclusion of the European Central Bank.
The introduction of a common taxation policy to control the damaging competition which exists between the different taxation systems, and more importantly a real and an effective employment policy.
Stability which is much more than just a figure in the accounts.
Democracy and social justice - these are the fundamental requirements for stability.
(Applause) We must work at building something more than just a monetary union, for if we do not at the same time create a social union, a democratic union, then our citizens will look on monetary union as an edifice which they must fear.
They want to feel and experience that this Europe is their Europe, a Europe which gives them jobs, inner peace, bread, fresh water, good wine, in other words a future.
Monetary union is a good thing, but it is certainly not everything.
It would be fatal for Europe to devote all its energy to this alone.
This is not the day for unveiling monuments.
It is a topping-out ceremony for the European Parliament.
The shell of the house is in place, now we have to make it fit to live in.
Mr Brown and Mrs Green have spoken in such enthusiastic tones.
Well, Pauline and Gordon, if it's so important, why the hell do you not join?
(Applause)
