Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in my contribution I would like to say something about the role of the European Union and our House in this conflict.
The question is, do we play a part at all, or do we do it justice?
The fact is that we do not play an active role, but nevertheless I think that our debate and the joint resolution which we present today are an important contribution, for we in the European Parliament will reach a decision before the Council and the Commission have been able to work out a common position.
This is the umpteenth time that the Council and the Commission have not been able to find a common position and if the Commission, as we have heard this morning, limits itself to wishing and hoping then the Commission appears to be in a bad way.
In our resolution we demand a common position on a common foreign and security policy, but we also say in this resolution how we view this.
In any case, it involves a resolution put forward by a majority in our House and, as already mentioned, adopted before the Council and the Commission are in a position to put forward some kind of common text for discussion.
I would like to make a comment on the UN resolution.
The Americans hold the view that we must intervene if all diplomatic efforts fail, and that we shall intervene.
In our House, and this has been said, there are some who dispute this.
It is to be hoped that further measures against the dictator will be supported by the whole international community.
It would also be desirable for the UN Security Council to confirm such a measure.
But this effort must not lead to some members of the international community, such as Russia and China, bringing the Security Council into a position whereby the pressure on Saddam can be reduced, which would mean state terrorism being victorious in Iraq.
We do not want that.
We want, if possible, a peaceful solution, and hopefully a common one, which will mean that all those things indicated some time ago by the British Presidency disappear from the world.
Chemical and biological weapons cannot be accepted anywhere in the world, and certainly not in a country where there is state terrorism.
