Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when I look at the many political and financial crises in the world, I have to conclude that Euroland is a land of stability.
I am pleased that we did not follow the advice of those who, in the spring of this year, were still speaking of the euro as a premature birth.
Many of those who have held up the Asian model as an example to us are nowhere to be seen now, presumably because they are busy burning their speeches!
In my speech I should like to concentrate on the situation in Russia.
A united, democratic and stable Russia is of paramount interest to us Europeans.
That sort of Russia, as an equal partner of the European Union and of NATO, can make a decisive contribution to stability and constructive development in Europe.
For that reason, it is essential that the appropriate reforms are enacted in Russia, reforms which are the responsibility of Russia and Russia alone.
We can lend support, and we can help the Russians to help themselves, so that they will be able to clear away the ballast of the Soviet regime and the planned economy.
At the same time, we must get round to talking about the basics, by which I mean such fundamental elements as a functioning administration, which is the key to the implementation of social, environmental and, above all, economic improvements, as well as to a rational and balanced interactive relationship between central government and the regional authorities.
This is the only way to guarantee the rule of law and to establish the social market economy which will bring about the progress that is so urgently needed.
Such a market economy must be embedded in a framework of social justice and environmental responsibility as we understand them.
I agree with Mr Swoboda that we Europeans undoubtedly made a great mistake in the past, for although we gave money, we left the provision of advice to a host of Harvard professors who preached pure free-market capitalism.
I believe in a social market economy which takes account of all the national structures and is designed to strengthen small and medium-sized businesses, which are the basis of economic development in Russia.
These structures are absolutely essential if the public finances are to be put in order, if taxes are to be properly collected and if corruption and organised crime are to be curbed.
We must also seek ways and means of recovering the 150 billion dollars which has found its way into private hands within and outside Russia, so that it can be used for the nation's economic development.
We consider it essential that democratic structures and national political parties should develop.
I hope, Mr van den Broek, that the aid from the European Union, such as that provided through the TACIS programme, will be tailored to these requirements, but we shall surely have the opportunity to discuss this in greater detail.
If our position is to prevail during the preparations for the G7 meeting, the European G7 participants must coordinate their approach.
