Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, now that we have discussed all these things here, one question remains: if Russia takes all the action we recommend, will it then be saved?
Or are some of our words born of our despair in trying to comprehend something so totally unfamiliar?
'Russia is great, and the Tsar is far away' is what they used to say.
Everything we have been talking about is concentrated on Moscow.
Russia is so great and so vast that it is also in our interest to find out what is happening in the provinces.
What structural measures are being implemented there?
Is there a concentration of powers in the provinces too?
One lesson we must take to heart is that, whatever more stringent measures we think we can introduce against Russia, events in that country have a huge bearing on our own development.
Our direct aid, to be honest, is only a drop in the ocean of problems that are being experienced in Russia, and yet we talk about cutting TACIS or amending it and much else besides.
We must try to restore confidence through human contacts and by supporting the present government.
I believe this government deserves our trust, if only because the head of the government has said that there will be no change to the reforms and that the loans will be repaid.
We should not doubt his word but should encourage him to redeem these pledges, and for our part we must seek ways in which we can help to smooth his path towards these objectives.
I have heard from the presidency of the Council that it too has adopted a detached and clinical approach to the analysis of this situation and is responding to the task list with a slight shrug of the shoulders.
We have no patent solution, said Mrs Ferrero-Waldner, but we hope that whatever is done will be for the best.
However things may appear, external trade policy is synonymous with foreign policy at the moment.
We must put our trust in Russia and help it in this difficult situation.
Any attempt to turn back the clock would result in a collapse that would affect every one of us.
