Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we Europeans will, it is to be feared, more frequently have the opportunity to talk about refugees escaping to Europe.
Therefore, it must firstly be emphasized that what is happening in Italy at the moment does not represent an Italian problem, nor a German problem, nor even a German-Italian problem, but that the movement of Kurdish refugees is centred in Turkey.
Therefore, the first demand to be made to the Turkish Government is that the conflict with the Kurds be settled peacefully and by constitutional means and on the other hand that it be ensured that criminal organizations which also make capital out of human misery and use Turkey as an escape route be rigorously prosecuted.
That is the first demand.
Secondly, it has been said that the Schengen Agreement must be repealed.
Now, ladies and gentlemen, we must refrain from demanding the repeal of European provisions whenever there are difficulties.
Schengen contains all the possibilities of dealing with such situations.
This is precisely why we concluded the Agreement!
I accept that the Italian Government is playing its part in fulfilling these obligations and it must be acknowledged that it is more difficult in Italy than in other countries.
We must also develop an awareness ourselves that with the protection of the external borders, increasingly fewer decisions will be taken on illegal immigration.
Because - in an age of mobility - we neither can nor want to turn Europe into a fortress, decisions on illegal immigration must be taken in the individual countries.
We must decide whether refugees can stay in our country or not, and such decisions must be made quickly and constitutionally.
If we come to the conclusion that they cannot stay, they simply have to be returned to their own countries.
This also relates to the regulation of immigration, not only the protection of external borders which is being discussed at the moment.
A final point: everything we are now witnessing in connection with the situation in Italy cries out for a European ruling.
We cannot pretend that such problems can only always be solved by the countries which are currently affected.
This requires joint European efforts such as they are laid down in the Amsterdam Treaty.
They should therefore be implemented quickly, not only when the five-year term has ended; we should make a start immediately.
This is what the case of Italy, the case of the Kurdish refugees, warns us about.
