Mr President, it is a pity that the rapporteur is not there but I would like to discuss the position of the PPE group regarding the Collins report.
On Friday of this week we celebrate a memorable anniversary.
The novel food regulation will have been in force for one year without the citizens of Europe experiencing any effects of this in practice.
This is certainly due to the fact that we still do not have any legally binding rules of implementation and to the fact that the products which have already come onto the market in great style - genetically modified maize and genetically modified soya - were removed from the novel food regulation or the Commission's interpretation did not hold these to be novel foods.
At the time I was annoyed about this but I find it positive that it is now being proposed to label these foods too.
Mr Bangemann, you have been much criticized in recent years in connection with this dossier.
Here we have the opportunity to praise you for presenting this proposal and I believe that the proposal is, on the whole, not as bad as it is sometimes made out.
There are some points on which we could argue.
On the whole, the PPE group is in favour of the proposals of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection but opinions can vary.
We are of the opinion that a de minimis threshold should be set but that it should not be 5 %, as suggested by some, as this would mean that in principle we could not assume that there are any genetically modified foods.
Everyone would be able to interpret it as they wished.
Instead, much lower thresholds must be set and the Scientific Committee for Food must make suggestions here.
A list of products which must not be labelled could be useful but I believe that none of the parties should become too involved in this argument as a compromise must be possible.
I personally am of the opinion that the Commission's proposed "' may' provision' is not so stupid; according to this proposal, if it is not known whether something contains genetically modified products this should be allowed to be labelled "may contain' .
My main request to the Commission, but also indirectly to the Council of Ministers, is: please reach an agreement at last!
Everyone must be willing to compromise.
Those who hold extreme positions should make concessions.
It simply cannot be possible that despite a regulation people must wait for rules of implementation.
We need a clear decision so that industry and consumers know where they stand, and for this it is essential that everyone is willing to comprise.
