Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the whole thing would be almost bizarre, if it were not so very serious.
We are talking about events which took place years ago and which involved relatively small amounts of money.
The countless investigations into the tourism industry go right back to 1989 and were carried out by the Court of Auditors, the European Parliament, the Courts and the Commission itself, which is being held fully responsible for the whole affair.
Have we really nothing better to concern ourselves with than yesterday's news?
I, for one, believe that the real problem lies elsewhere.
Is the tourism issue not much more symptomatic of the cross-dealing which has been going on within the Commission, and which has been suspected, and may still be, in other sectors too.
It is Parliament's duty as a supervisory body to investigate these possible abuses, to point out where mismanagement, irregularity and even fraud has occurred, and to call for appropriate action to be taken and to ensure that this is done.
To do this Parliament requires a continuous and unreserved flow of information, primarily from the Commission, even though some officials may have acted in a negligent or culpable manner.
The mantle of immunity could also prevent their justified defence.
In the case in question, the flow of information to Parliament has been slow and fragmentary, at least in previous years.
It is to the credit of the Court of Auditors, with its two special reports, and also to the credit of our colleague and rapporteur, who has submitted three reports on the subject, that light has now been shed on the dark recesses of the tourism sector.
These reports will not have pleased the Commission.
Mrs Wemheuer has presented the chronology of the events in meticulous detail.
On her own initiative she has uncovered previously hidden sources and scrutinized piles of documents, and I only regret that these could not be equally weighted and incorporated into her assessment.
This information could well be used for preparing as yet unproven allegations of guilt.
Though the European Year of Tourism is at the heart of the report, Mr De Luca refers in particular to further serious abuses at Directorate-General level, but goes on to mention a number of improvements which the Commission has sought to introduce.
However, these measures, as outlined in the various verbal and written statements by the three Commissioners, namely Mrs Gradin, Mr Liikanen and Mr Papoutsis, as well as by the member of the Committee on Budgetary Control, are still inadequate.
Our demands are clear cut: we want greater transparency, the unreserved supply of information - especially when EU officials appear to be involved -, independent powers of investigation by UCLAF, examination of the question of immunity and strict financial control, to name but a few.
As stated earlier, we are very serious about both these resolutions.
Merely threatening to set up a European Parliament committee of inquiry serves no real purpose, in my opinion, if we are not prepared to make use of such an instrument.
It would be much more useful to put our own house in order by strengthening the powers and personal resources of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
Let us hope, Mr President and members of the Commission, that by working together we can make a fresh start for a brighter future.
