Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is really a debate among transport policy conspirators.
This is a report which is slightly technical but not really as technical as all that.
Allow me to begin by offering sincere thanks to the Chairman of the Committee for Transport and Tourism.
It is sometimes his duty, which he takes seriously, to assume the role of rapporteur and to push the matter forward, if no group wants to take on a report because of the subject, and I am particularly grateful to him for handling transport policy in our Committee with such commitment.
As to the matter itself: we support the draft directive from the Commission on the harmonization of the registration documentation for motor vehicles and trailers.
I believe that aligning registration documents will facilitate transport checks in the Union, because in future and irrespective of the issuing country the documents will in each case contain a series of clear and uniform statements; for example, inter alia they will indicate in which Member State the vehicle is registered and which person is the authorised owner of the registration documents.
That will unfortunately still not tell you who is the owner of the vehicle, but we shall at least know who is the authorised owner of the registration documents.
By this means, the draft directive will at the same time assist the fight against car crime.
Moreover, the alignment of registration documents will facilitate reregistration of a motor vehicle from one member country to another.
However, Commissioner, my group believes that this can be only the first step towards harmonization, because it makes no sense within the European Community for some states to have one-piece registration documents and others two-piece documents, with differing legal consequences in the Member States concerned.
That really makes no sense at all in an internal market.
I think that we need a certain degree of harmonization in an internal market.
It does not have to be taken to the final degree, but there has to be a sensible harmonization of basic data.
That is why I would be happy if you would acknowledge that harmonization will have to go beyond this first step, especially since I believe that the theft and smuggling of vehicles within the Community and also from the Community into adjacent third countries must be more effectively prevented, and it would be helpful in this respect to have sensible registration documents.
That is why, Commissioner, we support your proposal.
We hope that you will support the draft amendments from the Chairman of the Committee on Transport and Tourism - apart from the draft amendment from the Greens, of course, we do not support that one either - and we also hope that it is the first step on the road to a careful but objectively justified harmonization.
