Madam President, economic union will change Europe, it will create an orderly political framework for the internal European financial market and it will also pave the way to political union.
Without it, the European Union will not manage to achieve Agenda 2000 and enlargement eastwards.
But we also need to develop a stronger Community spirit.
The German writer Peter Schneider is constantly being disappointed in his hope for a perfect Europe because the dynamic of a strong and viable internal market created by a single currency is not being reflected in other policy areas.
But every market needs a regulatory framework if society is not to be damaged, and I would remind you that the money for the people does exist.
That is why monetary union offers the European Union an historic opportunity to successfully master the consequences of globalisation.
The crises in Russia and other parts of the world on the one hand and the progress in price stability on the other show how very important the euro is to European and international monetary stability.
The euro-11 zone is like a lighthouse in the stormy waters of economic and financial turbulence.
We in the Union must not sit back; we must organise social stability alongside monetary stability.
It is not just markets, people too need to have confidence in this Europe.
That is why it is now important to formulate and coordinate the economic, employment and social policy aspects of monetary union.
Here I would appeal to the presidency of the Council and also to the Commission finally to give Parliament an equal say in coordinating economic and employment policy and finally to conclude the interinstitutional agreement with us, so that we can play our part in promoting this important and necessary progress in the Union.
We in Parliament organised the democratic dialogue with the European Central Bank; the first monetary dialogue has taken place, but now we also need to see progress at political level, as also at international level.
The European Union, and in particular the euro-11 zone, must speak with one voice both on Central Bank and political matters, and it must do so with the participation also of the Council and the Commission.
We must take measures against fiscal, social and environmental dumping, against tax havens and for a minimum company tax.
The euro will prove to have its own dynamic and establish itself on the markets and among the people.
We also need to organise measures for the real economy, so that as from 1 January 1999 this euro-11 zone can contribute to constantly improving the state of the Union.
