Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, thank you for your report.
There are indeed few promising signs.
Those that do exist should however be recognised, such as the ratification by the Knesset yesterday.
We must admit that steps were taken in this case, despite the bomb attack, whereas in the past the Israeli Government and Parliament always used such events as a reason not to take any steps towards peace.
On the other hand, however, Israel has tied that decision to certain conditions, and then there is the government action regarding Jerusalem, in particular Har Homa.
Let me state here even more clearly and plainly than the President-in-Office can perhaps put it: for us in Europe, for my group at least, it is quite unacceptable for the Israeli Government to keep trying to incorporate the whole of Jerusalem into Israeli national territory.
Israel must show more respect here, towards the Palestinians and of course also towards the religions practised on an international basis there.
My second point is that I believe it is most important - and I have some information to the effect that the Arabs and Palestinians take the same view - for the European Union also to carry out some form of monitoring of the implementation of the Wye Plantation agreement.
We must strive towards that, and we need exact information about what is happening.
In the same way as settlement is being monitored, we now need to monitor effective withdrawal; that is what my group is calling for.
I fully endorse what the President-in-Office said about investment, which we wish to support and indeed have to support.
Parliament is also prepared to do so.
Even if we are only talking about small sums, I would now call on the Commissioner to carry this forward, so that we can also give adequate and prompt support to the Israeli and Palestinian NGOs which are doing good work, across the borders and in particular through people-to-people initiatives.
I would ask the Commissioner and the Commission representatives to please consider how long the various organisations have to wait between the authorising of funds and the actual financing!
That is quite unacceptable!
My final and very important point is this.
As we can see from the calendar, it is not long till 4 May 1999.
However much my group fully recognises the right of the Palestinians to unilaterally declare independence if the appropriate agreements cannot be reached with Israel, we should nevertheless strive all the more to ensure that agreements are reached, either agreements on independence or agreements on postponing that deadline, if Israel accepts the principle that there will be a Palestinian state.
The European Union must endeavour in the immediate future to ensure that this date, 4 May 1999, does not signal the beginning of a new crisis, but that we have a joint declaration on independence by that date or, in the event that the deadline is postponed, that interim agreements are reached and the Israeli Government fully recognises the principle of a Palestinian state.
