Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, my verdict on the Vienna summit is of course rather less euphoric than that of the Chancellor, because basically it was a reiteration of objectives, statements of intent and tasks to be tackled that had already been defined; in parliamentary language, that means it was a summit which assigned responsibility for the items pending on the agenda, no more and no less.
But I too lay the blame less on the Austrian Presidency than on the general weakening of the will to reform within the European Union.
Chancellor, if you cannot see any trend towards renationalisation, I must firmly contradict you and cite the example of the debate on financing.
That showed quite clearly that the social democratic leadership in particular, which has taken such a centre-stage position at the moment, is giving precedence to interests that tend entirely in the opposite direction and are in the main purely national.
Just take a look: Schröder wants to cut the funding, as for that matter you do too with the idea of lower spending; then there is Blair who says he can still get something out of Europe in the agricultural sector, and Jospin who contradicts him on precisely that point.
That is the real reason why no progress was made with Agenda 2000, except for another postponement of the debate!
I would like to address a second point, employment policy.
Chancellor, I believe that what is decisive in this important area is that we do not confine ourselves to a purse full of ideas.
That is why I cannot understand why it was not made quite plain that the employment pact must be binding.
Referring to the stability pact and the employment pact in one breath only makes sense and is only justified if they are both equally binding!
So this is my verdict, Chancellor: this summit has not broken down the blockade on reform in the European Union in relation to enlargement and the decision-making ability of the European Union and its ability to master problems.
These questions were passed on, which I regret and which is a pity given the need for further European integration.
