Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we know that the decisions on Agenda 2000 are the central challenge facing the European Union, and therefore also the European Parliament, in the next six months.
Before we discuss the individual reports in detail, I would like to make a few general points on behalf of my group.
What is the real issue?
Firstly, it is about helping the Central and Eastern European countries to become eligible for accession.
We welcome the Commission's proposals on pre-accession aid.
We also welcome the instruments that have now been developed - or at least their main features.
We do not see this pre-accession aid as a bonus or premium for the Eastern and Central European countries, but we say that it is also in our own economic and political interest.
It is also clear, however, that it is the countries applying for accession themselves that must make the main efforts to qualify for accession.
Secondly, we ourselves, the European Union, are still not ready for enlargement.
Considerable efforts are still needed before we are prepared.
We regard the concept of Agenda 2000, as presented by the Commission, as the master plan for making the European Union ready for enlargement over the next six months.
This applies to reform of its policies.
It also applies to the financial perspective up to the year 2006.
In recent weeks and months, I have heard much criticism from the Member States, as also from the European Parliament and from my group, of individual Agenda 2000 proposals.
I think that is only normal.
It will happen again today.
But let me make one point at the start of the debate: to date, I have not heard any Member State, any Union body or any parliamentary group propose a counter-plan that would be as consistent in itself, as coherent and as likely to achieve a majority as the one the Commission has presented.
That is why my group will endorse the basic features of Agenda 2000, its essential points, in the form proposed by the Commission.
Perhaps I might try to list one or two of these points.
We regard job creation, the sustained economic growth and the competitiveness of the EU regions as the most important objectives in the reform of the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund, but also in the necessary reform of the EU agricultural policy.
We underline the need for Structural and Cohesion Fund measures to be environment-friendly, more environment-friendly than in the past.
We want regional and local organisations, but also our citizens, to be more closely involved in the planning and implementation of regional programmes.
We also hope to see simpler and more responsible fund management, and the appropriate Commission proposals.
The PSE Group has taken a clear stance on a range of disputed points.
The group supports the EU Commission's proposals on the Objective 1 criteria, but insists that the European Parliament must carefully examine any necessary exceptions.
The group supports the Commission's proposal to maintain Cohesion Fund allocations of about ECU 20 billion for the least developed Member States.
The group firmly supports the aim of reducing the number of Community initiatives, as it does the precedence given to Interreg, but we call for the URBAN programme to be retained and hope an initiative will be set up for regions exposed to unexpectedly severe economic and social restructuring.
We insist that the aid for those regions that will no longer be entitled to aid after the year 2000 should be reduced gradually, while also saying that the transitional stage should last up to six years and that no distinctions should then be made.
Finally, we support the Commission's intention to bring about greater coherence between national aids and measures and EU Objective 2 measures.
Here we certainly need greater flexibility.
These are the positions endorsed by my group, at least by a large majority.
Let me add a general point of principle: if we only discuss how much some Member States have to pay and how much a few others receive, we shall not be doing justice to the scale of the decision we are facing, in Parliament and in the Council.
In our view, all reforms - not just institutional reforms aimed at enlargement, but also reforms of our policies - are not only targeted at enlargement of the European Union; in fact they also serve as an opportunity.
They are an opportunity to breathe fresh air into the EU policy-making of the past.
Basically, we would still have to carry them out even if we were not faced with enlargement.
To underline it once again, with these reforms we are aiming to concentrate what we can do as a Community and a Union.
We are not aiming to demolish anything in the Member States, and we are not aiming to demolish the EU's policies.
Madam President-in-Office, you spoke of constructive cooperation and coordination of our activities.
Let me say a few words on that.
I do not have the impression that all the Member States, or rather the governments in the Council, have understood yet that Parliament's role has changed, have understood that in fact the European Parliament now has codecision powers through assent on the regulations on the reform of the Structural Funds and on the Cohesion Fund.
That means that it must also be in the interest of the Council to enter into an interinstitutional dialogue with Parliament after this first reading, not just on the financial perspective, because that is routine and always happens, but also on the reform of EU policies and on the position of the European Parliament and the Council, which will have to be prepared in future.
If the dialogue to which you referred only consists of Parliament reporting and the Council listening but apart from that remaining silent, as would seem to be the idea, then let me tell you that is not enough for us!
Then you are in danger of seeing all the reforms that need to be made running into a brick wall.
We want to decide Agenda 2000 during this parliamentary term, before the elections.
We are prepared to adhere to the timetable.
Let the Council do the same!
We need to have the Council's position by the end of March, so do not expect Parliament to give you a pretext for not keeping to your own timetable!
We know that the political, economic, social and ecological future of the whole of Europe is in our hands, in the hands of the Commission, in the hands of the Council, but also - and not least - in the hands of the European Parliament.
You may be sure we are aware of that!
