Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to follow on from Mr Botz's last comment.
Indeed we do not need to carry out any more feasibility studies; instead we need operational resources, and I believe that is the road the Commission has been pursuing for some time.
We are quite prepared to support the Commission in terms of concentrating more on that approach.
Setting infrastructure and the environment and the support measures for supervisory staff and investment financing as its objectives is the right starting-point, as is the strong emphasis on promoting democracy and the rule of law and viable administrative structures, together with a sensible judicial system.
But we must now spend these funds rapidly and unbureaucratically, so that they can make a fairly rapid impact.
We are facing a difficult task, namely how to bring about an economic and political balance on a continent that was once mercilessly divided both economically and politically.
Our major task in connection with this process of rapprochement must be to fuse the two parts together again.
Here we must also take a look at ourselves and remember something we tend forget: that what we represent as the national interest can in fact be assimilated with the interest of the Community.
When we look at the opposition between national interests, which are often considered in a short-sighted way, we may see short-term difficulties here and there, but in truth we want enlargement because it is also to our advantage, and not just to the advantage of the applicant countries.
If we realise this, if we really define our interests in the political, security and economic areas, then we will also be in a position to muster the ability to compromise and achieve the balance that we need if we are to make progress here.
One thing is clear: until now we have enjoyed the benefits of strengthening trade relations between Central and Eastern Europe on the one side and the European Union on the other.
Our citizens may have gained the impression that up to now all this has simply cost a lot of money; but the reality is that we have actually earned more than we have spent on these countries, simply because of the imbalance in trade relations.
I believe we should make that clear to our people too if we are to mobilise the necessary political support for this accession process.
We must also take the time factor into account, since it is an important factor if we want the citizens of the applicant countries to continue giving their support.
That means the programmes have to be of a high quality.
Mrs Schroedter, I am delighted to hear you say that shamefully little money is being spent!
I would cordially ask you to invite your Foreign Minister and your Chancellor to take your words to heart, so that we can achieve a better policy here!
