Madam President, it is, of course, remarkable and gratifying that after decades of unbridled subsidising of nuclear technology, consideration is now being given to what we should do when nuclear facilities reach the end of their operational lives.
It would naturally have been far better if, before embarking on this whole nuclear adventure, we had given some thought to the disposal of the resultant waste.
It is a fact that no place in the world is safe enough for the final disposal of high- and medium-level radioactive waste.
Experts are even still arguing about the host rock we should choose and the type of matrix in which the waste should be sealed.
Mr Chichester may now claim that some facilities have already been dismantled and turned into green fields, but that is simply not true.
We have demolished one single nuclear power plant in the European Union, namely Niederreichbach, which had only been in operation for 14 days and was not at all contaminated.
Then in Greifswald the Lugmin reactor was dismantled but was not even connected to the grid, and what you perhaps saw in Reinsberg was a research reactor, which cannot be compared with an operational power station.
And so I can tell you quite categorically that we neither know what sort of technology to use nor do we have a final storage place.
To turn the argument round, before dismantling anything we must first think about where to put it, and since we do not know that yet, the decommissioned nuclear plants should be safely sealed off, naturally without removing the fuel rods; these should stay in the plant, so that a stop can be put to this senseless practice of transporting them around Europe.
What we also need urgently, of course, is a ban on recycling and on the mixing of different contaminated and uncontaminated materials.
It is surely unacceptable that roads, for instance, should be built with contaminated materials.
What are we demanding of workers?
Let me tell you that the steel industry as well as the entire precision-engineering and light-engineering industries cannot do anything at all with contaminated steel.
That is another constraint.
Moreover, we need an amendment of the European regulation on protection from radiation, because it is possible to make progress through this regulation as far as the sorting of decommissioning waste is concerned.
This also means, of course, that we urgently need a decommissioning fund, which should be based on the polluter-pays principle.
I do not wish to suggest that we should suddenly have to fork out this money.
Certain parties have been amassing huge profits over all these years at the taxpayer's expense, because they had a monopoly; their prices had to be paid, and they built up enormous reserves with their tax-free billions.
That certainly must be halted.
But we do need a decommissioning fund to ensure that the population is protected from radiation.
We could also take the money from the ECSC budget, which runs out in 2000 and still amounts to more than ECU 100 million.
So there are possibilities.
But this does not alter the main point: if we create waste, we must decide where to dispose of it.
That decision is your problem, and it still needs to be solved.
You always tell us everything is fine, they will all be turned into green fields, it will cost nothing, and recycling is no problem, but the reality and the truth of the matter look quite different, otherwise there should not be overfilled interim storage facilities everywhere, and we should not have great mountains of nuclear waste at the reprocessing plants.
I believe it is high time we faced up to reality, instead of constantly producing more and more waste.
