Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by adding my own thanks to Mrs Leperre-Verrier for her report.
It is an excellent report, and we do not have too many excellent reports.
You can be proud of it.
I should like to dwell on one or two points from this report, because I believe they are crucially important.
The development process in Hungary - certainly in this particular domain - has been rather encouraging, especially since 1996, when the new legislation on the media was gradually set in motion.
There were great difficulties, because, as you know, the media are very important politically and therefore tend to set the political parties at loggerheads - and thank goodness we have these political arguments in Hungary now instead of orders from above.
The arguments held things up, but then the process began to move again, and all is well now.
I should just like to point out that the progress achieved has a distinctly liberal vein, which gives us good reason to speak of genuine progress in Hungary.
And then I have a special word of thanks for the rapporteur for pointing out in the context of this development how dangerous it is when a particular smaller national culture dies out.
In Hungary, as the previous speaker rightly said, the film and media culture has been developed for a long time.
My memory stretches slightly further back than his - he was probably still a small child when this culture was developing.
During the Second World War, for example, when I attended gatherings of the Hungarians in Hollywood, virtually all the great film stars were there, but we did not speak English.
We spoke Hungarian, because they generally spoke English in such a way that I preferred to speak Hungarian, so that I could understand them.
There is still a great deal of talent in that country which could play a magnificent part in fostering the general development of European culture.
For that reason, I should like to thank the rapporteur for referring, in very friendly and diplomatic terms, to the international competition in that part of the world.
That competition is inconceivably ruthless.
Literally millions of dollars are being invested in bids to seize control of the entire media structure in all these new democracies.
There are some countries where these elements have actually achieved their goal.
I need only cite the example of the Czech Republic, where practically all aspects of the media are controlled from overseas, although they are private companies.
In Hungary, thankfully, that has not happened, for the majority of the largest television network and largest private television network is in Hungarian and European hands today.
That is a healthy situation if we want to preserve European culture.
This is an area in which we must make strenuous efforts, for there are other countries where the threat is enormous.
For instance, when I look at present developments in Croatia, I see that every possible means is being used to concentrate the press, television and the various other media in the hands of US corporations.
I am not blaming the government for that; these are private corporations which are trying to establish such a monopoly and use it for their own ends.
We cannot deny that there is a certain danger involved here.
I believe this is one of the most important issues.
We surely do not want quotas, as has rightly been said here, but we certainly do want to strengthen our people in such a way that they can develop their talents and compete in the marketplace.
Finally, I should like to add one more observation.
We have various amendments here with this report, and I must say that they are generally good, but I should like to express distinct reservations about Amendments Nos 1 and 6, because of the unrealistic nature of Amendment No 6 in particular but also, to a certain extent, of Amendment No 1.
People cannot be expected to produce full reports every six months.
Anyone who has anything to do with television and the other mass media will know it is impossible.
We should therefore go back at these points to the wording that was originally proposed by the rapporteur.
The original text is good, because it takes us along a more realistic path.
