Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the ozone layer, which protects people, animals and plants on earth from harmful ultraviolet rays from the atmosphere, has been depleted by 10 % since measurements began in the early 1980s, although in the northern hemisphere over Scandinavia and Siberia depletion is up to 45 %.
Over ten years ago, with the Montreal Protocol, we found a way to control the phasing-out of ozone-depleting substances.
A few weeks ago, the 12th Conference of the Parties to the Protocol marked the start of the section of the Protocol in which the developing countries also committed themselves to reducing production of HCFCs.
In the European Union, production of fully halogenated chlorofluorocarbons was halted as early as 1995.
We are now beginning to reduce production of HCFCs.
I believe that the Commission proposal is a very good and very sensible one, and will help us to begin this reduction more quickly than provided for the EU in the Montreal Protocol.
In my report I have made some amendments to the Commission's proposals because I think that in certain areas production can be halted even more quickly, alternative substances are available, and it is necessary to have a certain degree of standardisation in halting production so that there are not several different deadlines for individual product ranges.
In addition, we need a phasing-out of HCFCs so that industry can prepare itself to slow down production gradually.
I believe this is also what the industry wants.
In my report I have also tried to address other problems by means of amendments.
One is the question of illegal trade, which is becoming more and more urgent.
In old installations there are supposedly closed systems from which substances are still disappearing.
Even small amounts, such as 20 or 50 litres of CFCs, are enough to keep these old installations in operation for a number of years, and this is why illegal trade in CFCs takes place.
I hope that these amendments on stricter controls and help for factories to halt production sooner, will also be useful.
I also believe that we need regulations for the export of substances that are already banned in the Union.
I have proposed a certain transitional period so that in particular the developing countries, which under the Montreal Protocol can continue to use HCFCs for a longer time than the European Union, do not have to develop their own industries or halt production at the same time as us, but are allowed to use new substances and build up significantly better new industries by using new substitutes from the outset.
I would like to mention two further points that seem to me to be very difficult and for which I have not really found a solution.
The first is the use of HCFCs in fire extinguishers.
Unfortunately, I only today received the information from the Commission to the effect that, in accordance with a European Court of Justice ruling of this summer, the use of HCFCs in fire extinguishers is banned.
It is highly regrettable that this information was not available for the vote in committee.
I also believe that the proposers of the motion that was approved in committee, who were advised on this by their Green Minister of the Environment, were not aware of it.
I am sorry that I only learned of this this evening and could not speak to the committee chairman about it.
I will inform Parliament of this fact tomorrow before the vote on this issue so that the vote can then be cancelled.
My final point concerns methyl bromide.
Following discussions and votes in committee, a compromise was found in this area to allow the southern Member States to use methyl bromide for longer in soil fumigation.
I know that such a compromise is difficult and should really be rejected for reasons of environmental policy, but I ask the Commission to find a way to allow a decent transition in view of what is currently being discussed in the Council.
