Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the three reports before us, dealing with minimum reserves, sanctions and the collection of statistical information, were unanimously adopted at the committee stage - to all appearances, three more or less routine reports, but in view of the latest developments in the international finance markets they are anything but insignificant.
Allow me, therefore, to make a few basic remarks about these developments.
The background, briefly, is as follows: in the early summer of 1997, the failure of a building loan triggered mass hysteria among creditors in the South-East Asian finance markets and plunged the 'little tigers' into a gigantic economic and social crisis.
This crisis of confidence then spread to Japan, South Africa, Latin America and finally, for political reasons, to Russia as well.
The results are sufficiently well known: growth forecasts had to be scaled down, and plummeting share prices led to worldwide losses in the order of four trillion dollars - equivalent to Japan's entire GDP.
Many of these crisis-torn countries are caught in a liquidity trap from which only an injection of funds can extricate them.
The G7 decision to set up an emergency fund must be seen in this light and is naturally a welcome step.
One of the crucial factors in this whole crisis, however, has been the failure of the IMF to perform its supervisory function properly.
The real economic impact of the speculative movements and the loss of growth that has resulted from this crisis of confidence, which actually has nothing at all to do with purely economic developments, cry out for a change of system.
The present system simply costs the general public too much.
The opinion that finance markets should be subject to control and regulation is gaining ground, even among major owners of capital.
Europe, with its converging economies and stable currencies, has largely succeeded in keeping clear of this crisis.
This stability has had to be bought time and again with high interest rates.
That affects growth rates in turn, but - and this is a decisive point - the use of interest-rate policy as a means of currency stabilisation, especially through the minimum reserve ratio, is an object lesson to European banks on how to behave in a deregulated supranational economic system.
It provides the Central Bank with the means with which to restrict the commercial banks' lending activities and to control the money supply.
This national instrument, as it has hitherto been, must now become a European instrument of supervision and control.
This is the line of thought that has to be pursued.
One reason for this is that up to 1.8 trillion dollars is moved around daily on the international finance market in the form of speculative transactions - that represents about 10 % of global GNP.
In the case of Thailand, for example, the lowering of the minimum reserve ratio generated a rash of high-risk short-term transactions.
This naturally provided greater scope for the hedge funds, which operate not only in the money market but also in the commodity market and which, because they can be quickly liquidated, lead to a doubling of costs for entire industries.
If, for instance, commodity prices soar because of poor cotton harvests, buyers can already expect to be charged an additional hedge-fund supplement, as it were.
Surely that is not the name of the game!
It certainly has nothing to do with work or with innovations in the finance market.
The general public have to foot the bill, which is precisely why I really do believe that it makes more sense to base a minimum reserve policy to a greater extent on the true-cost principle than on remuneration for so-called competitive reasons, which is somewhat contrary to what Wim Duisenberg has been saying.
But Mr Duisenberg, of course, need not always be right.
Excessive deregulation makes expectation the main determinant of the finance markets, which stop using economic development as their yardstick and allow their actions be governed by competitors' performance patterns.
Growth and employment must have priority, and that must be reflected in political decisions.
This means that the open market must be governed by recognised international rules.
The minimum reserve is one such rule.
The discussion is not about abolishing it but about making it into an effective instrument.
