Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, may I begin by thanking my honourable friend Mr Hoppenstedt for his excellent report.
He is an acknowledged expert in this area, and I believe we must recognise that.
We have an enormous diversity of issues to deal with, and to have someone who can deal with a subject in such depth is of extra special importance.
Let us now turn to the substance of Mr Hoppenstedt's report.
I believe that, while we must create the conditions for the development of a European aerospace industry, it is even more important that companies within the aerospace industry in Europe should get together properly, and there is still much to be done in this respect.
Above all, I believe that a European aerospace company comprising several enterprises which have hitherto operated in a national framework will not tolerate government involvement in the longer term.
I believe we shall have to organise this industry entirely within the private sector, and that remark is especially addressed to one particular country.
Secondly, as far as defence technology is concerned, or Wehrtechnik , as we would say in German, there is an urgent need for us to cooperate so that we do not fall behind our competitors.
In this domain, of course, some very delicate questions remain unanswered, and we have to recognise that whatever is developed must be distributed in accordance with the Member States' respective market shares, irrespective of where the product has been developed.
But allow me to say at the same time that, whatever we do as a joint European aerospace enterprise, although we must make our own products in order to hold our own against American competition, there is no reason why we should not cooperate with the United States too in certain segments of the market, since some of the companies that will combine to form a European aerospace and defence group will naturally have their own links with the United States and with businesses there.
So the message is: establish a strong position, but cooperate with American corporations too.
Let me end with a word on the satellite navigation systems.
And please listen especially carefully, Commissioner, to what I have to say on this point.
I am not sure whether we in this House, you in the Commission and the governments in the Member States are fully aware of the problems associated with the global satellite navigation system.
Do we really want to become dependent on the United States by jointly developing with the Americans a system that they can switch off at their own discretion?
We shall have to think harder about ways in which we can assert our own European identity, for this question of global satellite navigation is not only important in terms of aerospace; it is an important factor in transport policy in general, and I believe that this is a point on which we Europeans must close ranks.
