Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is Parliament's first opportunity to comment on the Commission proposals for the reform of the Structural Funds, and give some clear indications on them.
As we do this, we German Social Democrats will be anxious to discover whether or not Parliament has the strength to display some truly common, clear principles.
The consultations have shown that, in principle, all of us want greater accuracy and a concentration of resources on what is important.
This means priority should still be given to assisting regions whose development is lagging furthest behind, but it also means continuing to give an appropriate level of assistance to regions in the richer Member States which are experiencing problems with restructuring.
We agree that we should concentrate the Structural Funds on creating employment and on simplifying structural policy, as well as helping the regions that are no longer eligible with transitional rules so that they are not just excluded all of a sudden.
But the discussions of the last few weeks have shown that there is reason for us to fear that the representation of national interests and the horse-trading that accompanies it - something which we have so far only seen in Council - have spread to Parliament too.
Parliament is running the risk of needlessly ruining its reputation.
There are amendments which we will table and present tomorrow so that a decision can be taken on them, but two points should allow me to clarify the exact direction that we are heading in.
If at first reading we are already opening the door to exceptions to the 75 % rule for Objective 1, then we are giving the Council the unequivocal signal to start horse-trading.
The price we will pay is a long list of exceptions, and less money for the regions that really need it.
We cannot suspend basic arithmetic, after all!
If we do not make the cake we are distributing any bigger but more people want a slice, then there is less for those who urgently need it.
The cake that we are distributing is not going to become any bigger because there are more hungry people.
On the other hand, we should not, via the back door, turn the Cohesion Fund into an unlimited instrument for redistributing income to all those Member States which are beneath a certain level of prosperity.
European integration has not quite reached that stage yet.
The Structural Funds are an expression of European solidarity.
The Cohesion Fund must be concentrated on the Member States that are having difficulty in complying with the hard criteria.
I would ask that flexibility ...
(The President cut the speaker off)
