Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, allow me to address a number of issues.
I believe that it is important to record that the Commission - in contrast to the golden age of legislation on the internal market - is only tabling 31 new legislative proposals, and some of those consist of amending existing directives.
This shows a pleasing tendency, in line with the principle of subsidiarity, and I think that we should also make the public and our governments fully aware of this.
Secondly, I should like to ask the Commission - as we have also stated in our motion - to tell us more clearly why 181 dossiers are pending in the Council awaiting a final decision, and why the Council has still not adopted a common position in 85 cases.
I believe that we would perhaps be able to kick-start this process if the Commission were to inform Parliament in more detail of the reasons for the blockage in the Council.
That illuminates my next point, a call for more transparency.
One of the objectives which the Commission has included in its work programme is implementing the provision on transparency in the Amsterdam Treaty.
I believe that this issue is vital to the future acceptance of the European Union, and I should like to ask the Commission, when defining transparency and specifying and applying rules, to involve Parliament at a very early stage - if possible before its directives are published - so that we can use this as a basis for reaching a consensus on our ideas, because essentially this is also about how we can force the Council to be more transparent, to the point of establishing a legislative Council.
I believe that we should work together closely here.
That brings me to a further point, applying the provisions of Amsterdam.
The debate with Parliament hitherto has, I feel, suffered from a marked lack of proposals from the Commission on implementing the common foreign and security policy in connection with Amsterdam, and a lack of information about, for example, the composition of the Planning Unit.
Information or a dialogue might perhaps raise public awareness, so that this is not settled by the governments of the Member States amongst themselves.
In the same way, we should also like to discuss working together on the procedure for the forthcoming selection of the Commission, and in other similar areas.
We should also like to ask the Commission, as far as possible, to apply the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty even now, before it is ratified, and also to take initiatives, so that the fields of justice and home affairs can - following the five-year transition phase - move over to codecision.
Preparations should be made even now, so that this changeover can still take place before the enlargement treaties are concluded.
Finally, I believe that it is extremely important for the Commission to table proposals for the new stage of institutional reform, as Parliament has proposed.
I completely understand that the date of December 1998 cannot be adhered to because of the delay in ratifying the Treaty of Amsterdam.
But I do think it is necessary for proposals to be made by March of next year, so that they can form part of the debate during the European election campaign, which in turn will bring the topic to the forefront of the discussion.
