Madam President, Moldova, I am sorry to say, is something of a forgotten country in our part of the world.
That is why I should like to express my sincere thanks to Mrs Mann for the energy with which she has dedicated herself to bringing about a real and radical change in this widespread disregard.
We tend to forget Moldova, even though it is enormously important to our security.
It is worth observing how the governments of the applicant countries react when the subject of Moldova is raised.
Mr Gabriel, the former Romanian Foreign Minister, once pointed out in a very interesting speech that there were two absolutely critical points for security in Europe.
One of them was the Trans-Dniestria issue and the other was the question of Kaliningrad.
These are two places which, simply because of their geographical positions and because of the huge quantities of arms deployed in them - an inexplicable phenomenon in actual fact, because even Russia cannot explain today, and is unwilling to try and explain to the outside world, why so many weapons are kept there - represent a real threat to the security of the entire continent.
We are not just talking about a small remote place; we simply must look at the wider picture rather than walking around with blinkers on.
I believe it is very important that we in the European Parliament should also pledge our support to the relevant missions, especially the OSCE, so that they know they have the backing of the political representatives of the European Union, who are willing to provide assistance and support if and when it is needed.
A solution to the conflict is possible if there is enough strength behind the peace efforts.
In the developing conflict, Russia is on one side and the European Union is effectively on the other.
We shall be doing Europe no favours if we allow a one-sided show of strength by Russia.
It is essential that we demonstrate by our presence there that we are really supporting the young Moldovan democracy, that we are doing our best for Moldova.
If we do that, I believe we shall have done what is best for ourselves too.
