Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the present reports we are consolidating the strength and independence of the European Central Bank.
May I congratulate Mr Hendrick on his report.
I believe that he has grasped the main thrust of the case.
It is very important that we give the ECB the greatest possible degree of independence, but at the same time its activities must be governed by the legal principles that apply in the European Community.
I am especially pleased to see that, with regard to the collection of statistical information, we intend to take special account of the interests of small and medium-sized businesses.
We know from many surveys that the administrative effort required for the collection of data, which is often badly structured, tends to get out of hand and to hamper companies in the performance of their actual work.
We intend to combat this problem by means of Amendment No 7, which seeks to establish thresholds in order to ensure that compulsory reporting does not apply to all small businesses - and even, in extreme cases, to households - as soon as they engage in cross-border transactions.
The European Central Bank itself is to set these thresholds and is to set them quite liberally.
This preserves its independence and the efficiency of the system.
Lastly, it is perfectly natural that the sanctions provided for in the regulation should be governed by the general principles of criminal law and statistics.
For that reason, penalties must be determined in accordance with the proportionality principle and with the degree of culpability.
In the case of force majeure , in other words if failure to transmit data is caused by factors beyond the control of the reporting agent, sanctions are not to be imposed at all.
The present proposals strike a reasonable balance between the need to collect data and the aim of avoiding additional burdens on businesses and households.
The key role played by small and medium-sized businesses in job-creation within the internal market shows why these specific refinements are necessary.
