Madam President, when archaeologists comb the countryside today and find the bones of prehistoric dinosaurs, they are delighted and can prepare and exhibit these finds in perfect safety.
I do not believe that it is quite so simple with the energy dinosaurs of today.
Future archaeologists cannot be let loose on them willy-nilly, nor can we give any reassurances about their safety.
On the contrary, we have to be extremely cautious with these nuclear dinosaurs, because they carry a real danger, posing a risk not only to ourselves but also to succeeding generations.
In other words, today's dinosaurs have to be treated very differently to those of bygone ages.
I thank Mr Chichester for having taken the initiative to compile this report, even if his ideas diverge markedly from my own.
It is clear that we need to get down at long last to disposing of these energy dinosaurs in a way that will not endanger future generations.
I am pleased that this need is being increasingly recognised.
In the European Union we have about 130 nuclear power stations, 19 of which are in Germany.
Happily, the new Federal Government has decided to proceed with the longoverdue removal of these hazards.
There is an additional need for decommissioning techniques, for safe methods of closing down these plants, but so far no one has developed the appropriate technology.
For that reason we need research, and we also need decommissioning techniques for different types of nuclear power station.
I must stress that we really do need new techniques.
We should not merely try to find some sort of hiding place, Mr Chichester.
That is why I cannot subscribe in any way to the idea that extending the remaining useful life of a nuclear power plant is part of the decommissioning process.
No, we must be resolute in our intention to condemn this prehistoric technology to the same fate as the dinosaurs.
There is, of course, the additional matter of reaching agreement as to who should foot the bill, and we need to let honesty prevail here.
There are energy supply companies which have been profiting from these power plants for years and even decades.
The plants will be written off, and the companies will invest the proceeds in telecommunications and suchlike.
Now that disposal is on the agenda, we are supposed to create yet another fund from the public budget for decommissioning.
No, I say, that is not an option!
Those who have made money from nuclear power stations must be handed the bill for decommissioning them.
Of course, the most awkward question is basically what happens to the waste.
This question has not been resolved.
Final disposal is the key question we have to study.
We must stop focusing our attention on the development of new safety technology designed to ensure that the nuclear plants will still be operational in 100 years' time.
No, we must examine which final-disposal technique is the safest.
One reason for this, I need scarcely say, is that we can no longer afford to send nuclear waste back and forth across Europe like coachloads of tourists as a way of deferring the decision on final disposal.
On the contrary, we must get down to creating specific arrangements for safe final disposal.
That is the crucial problem.
Not until we have done that, for the sake of generations still to come, for the sake of our children, can we be sure that future generations will be able to practise archaeology without anxiety.
