Mr President, I would like to extend my warmest thanks to the rapporteur for the good job he has done.
The European Parliament places a high value on the protection of health, as does the second amendment of this directive.
While the other issues are relatively easy to resolve, the problems of hardwood dust are more difficult.
A strict interpretation of the term by Member States, in so far as one is technically possible, could not only signify an end to furniture production, but could also pose a threat to the production of hand-crafted work.
Within a context of globalisation, the EU cannot cut jobs by laying down excessive requirements, which would lead for instance to the creation of yet more jobs involving higher health risks for workers in third countries.
That would not make sense.
The technical expenditure that is being called for should therefore be commensurate with the resulting protection of workers' health.
It would also of course be logical to do further research into possibly improving the way in which limit values are fixed.
A solution is not possible without transitional periods.
According to one of the rapporteur's amendments, Member States may need to provide financial assistance.
The SMEs affected do not by any means receive assistance, however, because if one Member State helps out its companies a great deal, and another cannot or does not want to do this, then a huge distortion in competition could arise.
That is why I would ask the Commission to make sure that the technical requirements and the limit values remain within a range that can be respected, and that the Union provides appropriate support so that conditions end up being more or less equal everywhere.
Ultimately we do not want a situation where workers enjoy excellent protection against carcinogens and hardwood dust as a result of the new version of Directive 90/394, but at the same time have no work because their company has had to shut down due to the excessive requirements.
That is not what the amendment of this directive is trying to achieve.
However, I will, of course, be voting in favour of this report.
