Madam President, Commissioner, I do not wish to blame you for this evening's empty house, as this is entirely down to ourselves.
But the failure of human rights policies to work is something for which both Commission and Parliament must take the blame.
That is what we wish to discuss this evening, and I cannot really endorse the comments made by Mr Dankert.
In my view this is not just a budgetary problem.
I would also like to broaden the context a little, as I was involved in the discussion on all of this in the Committee on Foreign Affairs, Security and Defence Policy.
You failed to make it sufficiently clear that the entire discussion over the last few days and weeks has centred on the issue of the 1998 human rights policy.
You talked a little about its execution, but you were not able to tell us much about the budget for 1999.
We have proposed a budget in which we have again had to accept some minor defects.
It affects, of course, not only the human rights budget lines but also Bosnia, Kosovo, Latin America, MEDA, the Middle East and more.
Our point though is a different one.
For two years now, we have been looking to have a dialogue with the Commission on various resolutions in order to find new structures, but we did not manage to achieve this.
This explains why the letter was written, which was actually supposed to have gone to the President of the Commission.
But the dialogue did not take place.
Together with yourself at first, we tried to invite the President, Commissioner Liikanen, and even the Secretary-General.
But these visits never took place, which accounts for part of our annoyance.
Even the instruments created hitherto have not worked as we had actually imagined they would.
People have been saying that for a year now.
We are constantly told that the programmes require greater transparency, and Mr Liikanen said this again this morning.
Of course this also applies to the democracy programmes.
But when we hear (and you have not entirely denied this) that the macro-projects just go to large organisations - the OSCE, the Council of Europe, and so on - then our view is that there should be interinstitutional agreements to clarify the role played by the European Union and the European Parliament with their resources.
The second point is that we really cannot be glad about your shifting the micro-projects to EU delegations, without central monitoring from Brussels to include the NGOs.
We cannot be glad about your shutting out the agency that previously helped you, no matter what the reasons behind it and regardless of your explanations.
They are clients that help us to spread the European Union ideas of human rights and democracy far and wide.
Most importantly of course, six months before an election they could really stab us in the back if we were to reclaim one of the most humane features of the European Union in a reorganisation.
I admit that all this is very difficult but perhaps we should discuss it together at some point.
When I consider that the result might be something like the course for the Masters degree in Human Rights, and that at one of its summit meetings the Council might set up a European Human Rights Monitoring Agency, a body which we really do not want as it would make it impossible for us to see where resources are going, then my urgent recommendation is that we meet here once again to have a better dialogue.
