Mr President, I should like to return to the real subject, the Vienna summit, and address two points which in my view will decide whether or not that summit is a success, namely employment and foreign policy.
On employment, several speakers have already expressed their views.
That is not because we cannot think of anything better to talk about; it is because this is an issue of such immense importance to Europe, with its unacceptably high level of unemployment, that we must keep formulating new employment initiatives.
We have achieved much with the Amsterdam Treaty.
It was confirmed in Cardiff and in particular in Pörtschach that we need to focus more strongly on employment policy.
The Commission has examined the individual Member States' national employment plans.
I must say that they have been treated very gently, and I also know that the Commission would have liked to deal with some Member States a little more roughly.
I hope this was only the gentleness of the first wave, because I am absolutely convinced that the Commission, and probably also the Council, must take a firmer approach to those Member States which are in fact not matching up to their plans, ideas and objectives.
We must carry out the measures that have already been referred to, notably by Mr Medina Ortega.
What about investment in Europe?
Are the measures announced in Pörtschach, and which were already contained in the Delors White Paper, actually being implemented now?
What about cooperation between Member States on fiscal matters?
Do we really have a coordinated tax policy for the whole economy?
I sometimes get the impression that members of the Council and some countries are afraid to have the courage of their convictions.
They say they want to do something, but as soon as a practical proposal is put before them, they find good excuses for wriggling out of it again.
So I wish to state quite clearly and plainly once again that I consider employment policy, more clearly defined guidelines on employment and stricter examination of the various countries by the Commission as of the utmost importance.
I turn now to foreign policy.
A good deal has been said on this, and I am glad that Commissioner van den Broek at least is here, who may perhaps be glad in the short term that none of his colleagues from the Council is here to talk to him about foreign policy.
But let me remind you that it was stated clearly in Cardiff that Vienna is to decide on a Mr or Mrs CFSP.
That was confirmed in Pörtschach.
But now I hear rumours that the Council is in favour in principle but cannot agree on names, and that once again it is shying away from the decision actually to appoint a high representative.
Either the Council realises that it is important to appoint a representative, and then it must do so - and do so soon, after all the negative experiences we have had; or the Council does not consider it important, in which case it should delete these provisions from the Amsterdam Treaty.
The second option is wholly unacceptable, not least to this Parliament.
We are told: yes, Mr or Mrs CFSP is an important figure.
We must tie that up in a package with the Commission president and other individuals.
My question is this: does the Council, do the Member States not know that in future this Parliament will also be appointing the president of the Commission, but that this will only happen at a later date?
Has the Council not realised that the balance of decision-making has changed, and that it has to take the important decision on whom to appoint as the foreign policy representative, in other words on the person who will be the contact and discussion partner for Mr van den Broek and the other Commissioners?
This decision must now to be taken.
The Council would be giving a clear sign of weakness, a sign that it remains as indecisive as ever in foreign policy matters, if it did not take these decisions in Vienna.
I believe this Parliament should say loud and clear that if the European Union's foreign policy is to be changed and rendered more efficient, then we need a high representative of the Council, and that decision must be taken in Vienna!
