Mr President, if today we are discussing the annual reports on human rights in the context of the 50th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, then it is not without good reason that the issue of improved institutional and legal protection of human rights within the European Union also features more prominently than ever on the agenda.
This question was made topical both by the High-Level Group and by the Austrian Presidency, and now also in this House at the initiative of my group.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has admittedly brought about some progress in the legal protection of human rights within the European Union, as several people have mentioned today.
Article 13 in particular could represent a certain amount of progress despite all the procedural obstacles that it incorporates.
At a conference in Vienna this article was described as a sleeping child.
I believe it is our task to wake it.
However, even the traditional human rights are not yet firmly enshrined in the law of the European Union.
This is particularly upsetting and alarming as the Union is taking on more and more tasks that are particularly likely to affect fundamental rights, especially in the area of the third pillar, for example the development of a joint asylum and immigration policy, joint measures to combat organised crime, new monitoring procedures and EU-wide police and judicial cooperation.
These policies must be accompanied and restricted by fundamental and human rights that are based directly on EU law.
As we know from our own difficult experiences, a policy area can only be established for the long term if corresponding institutional guarantees are provided.
We are therefore proposing in an amendment that each Member of the European Commission with responsibility for freedom, security and justice should also in future be very much responsible for ensuring respect for human rights within the European Union, and that the European Monitoring Centre on Racism and Xenophobia that was set up in Vienna should be extended to become a general monitoring centre for human rights.
