Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I think it is nice that we can discuss this legislation in such an intimate context.
Perhaps it would be even nicer if we could do it elsewhere over a drink, but unfortunately that is not possible.
Recently I have found the attitude of the European automobile industry to be much more proactive than in the past.
This has been seen in the Auto-oil legislation but also in the question of CO2 reduction in cars.
I was surprised by the offer of a voluntary reduction to 140g by 2008, even if it was not quite what we had in mind.
I do not want to sound like Lenin by saying that trust is good but control is better, but in this respect we must of course take action to ensure that this voluntary reduction is also observed.
We need an objective, logical data system in order to be able to carry out this monitoring.
For this reason I fully support the report by Mrs González, which considerably improves upon some of the points in the Commission proposal.
We need data relating to average consumption for individual manufacturers and individual models so that if the voluntary reduction is revised we could still say, if necessary, that it is not acceptable.
We need to introduce statutory regulations, and I would like to invite the Commission to indicate what form such regulations could take.
Traffic is an example here.
We are not supposed to drive at a speed of over 50 km/h, but some of us drive faster.
A policeman comes along and tells us this is not allowed, and then we pay attention to what we are doing.
I believe that it must be clear from the outset that there is a fine or a driving ban or similar for driving at a speed of over 50 km/h.
If we are to monitor the situation we also need to know what happens if we have to say that our data indicate that something is not allowed.
We should also include light commercial vehicles, because of course they also emit CO2 and they are fairly heavy polluters particularly in urban areas.
There is also a small loophole, however.
In a large Member State that I know quite well there is a voluntary standard, but at a certain point it was noticed that this did not work as it stood and certain vehicles were excluded, vehicles that are also authorised for use as light commercial vehicles.
We should at least bear this little loophole in mind.
It is for these reasons that we ask in our amendment that light commercial vehicles be included for monitoring purposes and request that Directive 70/156 be amended.
