Mr President, ladies and gentlemen - and let me give a warm welcome to our visitors from the Central and Eastern European countries in the gallery - what we are trying to achieve here in the European Union is basically not enlargement but the integration of the Central and Eastern European states, the integration of people who are of course Europeans and who have not so far been given the chance to join this Community.
So they are partners, with whom we are working together, and when we look at current developments in, for example, the field of trade, we find that here there is unfortunately a dramatic imbalance against the applicant countries and that we must ensure that this imbalance is corrected, since we can only be partners if we work together on an equal footing in this economic area as well.
The Polish President said something remarkable this morning, which is true for both sides: 'One does not refurbish the house merely because there are guests coming'.
That means that the European Union, the 15 Member States, must also do their own work first, especially in a sector that always tends to be pushed to one side, the agricultural sector.
Basically, the Central and Eastern European states find themselves in an absurd situation here.
On the one hand they are to adopt an acquis communautaire , the European Union rules, while on the other hand the European Union has not taken any major step forward in even formulating the agricultural reform, the new agricultural policy.
If we now take a critical look at ourselves, and if the pace at which the hard-baked representatives of the interests of the agricultural lobby are pursuing these vital reforms is to serve as a model for the Central and Eastern European states, it will take several decades before these states can become integrated.
That is another self-criticism we shall have to accept.
We must also take these representatives critically to task and say: if they do not want the reform of the common agricultural policy, then logically they do not want enlargement of the European Union either, or only enlargement on the medieval model, whereby these areas would merely be colonies, markets for selling our goods; that is not democratic enlargement.
Social policy plays an important role in this enlargement!
Here we must tell our partners clearly, and emphasise during the discussions, that at present every single Member State of the European Union is responsible for its social policy and that naturally those countries that want to join us will have to be responsible for their social policy, for instance their labour market policy.
That is not a disadvantage; basically it is also part of adopting the acquis communautaire .
