Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in exactly 87 days' time European economic and monetary union will begin.
The preparations for the introduction of the euro by the European System of Central Banks are well under way and are keeping to schedule.
Today's adoption by Parliament of the secondary legislation permitting the imposition of sanctions for failure to comply with the monetary element of minimum reserves and on the collection of statistical information represents a very important step in this direction.
We should take this occasion to remind ourselves that monetary union is a project without historical parallel.
For the first time in history, nations are ceding sovereign rights to a federal European institution.
In so doing, however, they are gaining in sovereignty over monetary policy.
This point has just been proved once again by the current turbulent state of the finance markets, in the midst of which the euro zone has emerged as a haven of stability.
In this situation, every effort must be made to create the technical and legal basis on which the European Central Bank can best perform the tasks assigned to it in the Treaty.
It is a matter of ensuring that the secondary legislation is implemented as soon as possible.
The European Parliament has arranged its timetable with this objective in mind.
This means that the ECOFIN Council can now complete the adoption of this legislation on 12 October.
The involvement of the European Parliament in this legislative process is only one element in establishing the democratic legitimacy of European monetary policy through monetary dialogue between the European Central Bank and the European Parliament.
It is not only a question of guaranteeing the democratic accountability of an institution which enjoys a historically unprecedented degree of autonomy; conversely, it is also about the fact that only a policy backed by the public acceptance and credibility that comes from democratic legitimacy can achieve the goals imposed upon it by the Treaty.
That is why a monetary dialogue with the European Parliament is in the best interests of the European Central Bank, enabling it to acquire credibility and acceptance in the marketplace and among the population at large.
The Hoppenstedt report rightly draws attention to an important instrument of monetary policy.
If the European Central Bank is to achieve the aims set for it in the Treaty and if monetary union is to succeed, care must be taken to ensure that the ECB has a set of differentiated and efficient monetary instruments at its disposal.
The minimum reserve is one such key monetary instrument; it is able to steady the banks' demand for central bank money and thus to prevent highly volatile short-term interest rates.
Active use of this instrument to prevent speculative flows of capital, as happened in Germany, for example, in the early 1970s after the abandonment of the Bretton Woods system, does not feature in the armoury of European monetary policies at the present time.
In view of the worldwide financial crises and the speculative movements of 'hot money', minimum reserves will serve even more purposes in the future.
Potential developments in the domain of electronic money, which could supplant cash and thus reduce demand for central bank money, it is important that the ECB should have this instrument in its monetary toolkit.
Minimum reserves do, however, create problems, in that their use acts like a tax on the banking sector and could result in competitive disadvantages for financial markets in the euro zone.
Now that the ECB Council has decided in favour of moderate reserve ratios and the payment of interest on money deposited with the ECB by way of minimum reserves, the way is clear for the introduction of a compulsory minimum reserve.
The European Parliament can assent to this proposal, as the Katiforis report has also spelled out very clearly in connection with the right to impose sanctions.
So the European Parliament rightly has no objections to the draft regulation.
Similarly, the collection of statistical data is a necessity in the European Union, especially when the money supply has to be controlled in this way; since the development of money-management and saving patterns in the European monetary union is an unknown factor, a broad database will be vitally important.
As Mr Hendrick and also the draft regulation rightly state, the European Central Bank must be given the legal authority to assemble an adequate database.
It goes without saying that the European Central Bank cannot act in a legal vacuum in this area.
The general precepts of the law must be the yardstick against which its actions are judged.
That is why the Hendrick report is right to draw attention to the problems of confidentiality and protection.
It is important, in other words, that proper provisions are adopted, as the European Parliament has underlined in the compromises proposed in its amendments.
As has been the case over the past few months, European monetary union is still on schedule and undergoing thorough preparation so that it can begin 87 days from now, on 1 January 1999, and can do so with an European Central Bank which is equipped with an efficient set of instruments.
