Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, you said that the special Pörtschach summit should consider the future of Europe.
But the list of subjects on the agenda tells us that it is more likely to discuss everything and anything.
Many of us fear this meeting will turn out to be the most expensive boat trip in the history of the Union.
Mr President-in-Office, when politicians consider the future they should remember the promises they have made to the people and the tasks to be tackled in the present.
There is indeed no lack of broken promises and unfinished tasks in the Union.
We have been promised since Maastricht that the serious democratic deficits in the Union would be dealt with, that parliamentary and constitutional principles would be underpinned.
The people are still waiting, while the Council is not even able to make its legislation visible.
The democratic deficit of the European Union still goes by the same name - the Council.
It has promised us since Amsterdam to remove the internal barriers to EU enlargement.
We know that this requires a comprehensive reform of the EU institutions.
But so far the Council has not even managed to produce a binding timetable.
Instead, it tends to fuel fears about enlargement towards the east.
Since the decision on monetary union, we have been promised that European integration would be given a social dimension, that instead of a market and money-based Europe, we would have a political union, a social area.
But so far the political statements about fighting mass unemployment have not been followed by deeds.
No sign so far of a coordinated economic policy, of an end to fiscal and social dumping throughout Europe!
Council summits are increasingly turning into a bazaar of conflicting nationalist interests.
Mr President-in-Office, there are some things we do know about the future of Europe.
We know that it can only succeed as a democracy, that it must overcome the division of Europe, that it can only flourish in a climate of social peace.
The Pörtschach summit will be measured by whether it takes practical steps to open the door to this future a little wider.
