Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, I believe the topics focused on by the European Conference to have been wisely chosen and worthy of our full support.
I also endorse the words of the Commissioner, who said that it is important to address those issues which are of particular interest to people, which give them cause for concern -whether this is justified or not - and to which they demand a response at European level.
My colleague, Mrs Malone, in particular, will be commenting on Malta; I do not, therefore, wish to go into detail on that now.
I should, however, like to make a number of fundamental remarks and ask a number of fundamental questions.
Firstly, I believe - and this is something of which the House should be aware - that the way we chose to deal with the applicant countries, using the European Conference as a kind of umbrella forum to negotiate with some of them, was the right way.
The elections in Latvia - as well as the referendum on integrating the Russian-speaking population - and the elections in Slovakia have shown that it was right to accept these countries as applicants.
Nevertheless, we must give them time and provide certain incentives for them to put the appropriate measures in place.
I am glad that this has actually demonstrated that we proceeded in the right way, even though our course of action was disputed in certain quarters of this House.
The incentives method - providing support for improvements on democracy, the rule of law and minorities - has proved to be the right method.
We failed - unfortunately, at this European Conference too - to secure the participation of Turkey.
I wonder how topics such as international crime, drug trafficking and so on can really be dealt with effectively without Turkey.
I should also like to take this opportunity to express my particular concerns about the current strained relations between Turkey and its neighbour, Syria.
Nobody should support terrorist groups and thus enable them to be active in other countries.
But if Turkey is not capable of solving the problem itself by peaceful means, then it has neither the legitimacy nor the right to take action and organise activities in another country.
I should like to ask the presidency whether this was discussed; what the presidency's views are on this issue; and whether, perhaps jointly with the Americans, a clear statement could be made to Turkey about its relations with Syria.
My final question for the presidency, however, is whether an initiative was put forward at the meeting of foreign ministers in Salzburg to extend this project to embrace other countries, as well as those in the European Conference.
Both the countries of south-east Europe and those in the Barcelona process are, of course, very much affected by issues such as crime and drug trafficking, but also immigration.
I wonder how these issues should be dealt with in the future.
The initiative did not exactly meet with enthusiasm or approval, but in principle, I believe it is the right approach, even though it was perhaps not prepared as well as it might have been, and the details still need to be considered.
The topics discussed, quite rightly, at the European Conference, relate to problems which can ultimately only be solved if, at the very least, the countries of south-east Europe and the countries in the Barcelona process are involved.
I should like to ask you, Madam President-in-Office, whether you can comment on how people envisage this in the future.
That apart, I would repeat that the issues you are addressing are of central importance for our continent.
I wish the European Union every success with the European Conference, so that we can find solutions to these problems.
