Mr President, in order to prevent any misunderstandings right from the beginning, I must say that a good relationship with the USA is very important to us.
But not in the way you see it, Sir Leon.
Your first priority is the removal of so-called barriers to trade, and this includes political decision-making powers.
Your plans for the NTM were rejected by the Council in the spring, and now a slimmed-down version of the TEP is on the table, practically a disguised MAI.
But why should we applaud something that was rigged in advance?
The negotiating mandate for the TEP was given long ago.
Yet we in the committee were only able to see it when the vote had already taken place.
That is absurd.
But some of its content is even more absurd.
It does not contain anything about setting up joint programmes for sustainable development in the world economy, nor does it say anything about commitment to a better quality of life, about using fewer natural resources, or about strengthening the multilateral system.
On the contrary, Charline Barschifsky stated on 28 July what the important issues are for the USA: the rights of US industry, the enforcement of US patent laws, crushing European protection laws in the field of biotechnology, the business interests of American banana producers, Helms-Burton, hormonized meat and genetically-modified food on European tables.
You, Sir Leon Brittan, wish to sacrifice all European and national standards on the altar of free trade, in accordance with your neoliberal philosophy.
Instead of constantly hatching new projects you should do your homework.
You gave in on the issue of Helms-Burton instead of enforcing WTO rules.
As a result, the Americans have taken legal proceedings against European firms in 5 911 cases.
Now the US does not care about the WTO and is threatening a full-scale attack on European products if the EU does not given in to US interests in the banana dispute.
We have been waiting for a reply from you since September on ECHELON, the unspeakable EU/US secret service dossier.
The Greens certainly do not want to see more and more national and European consumer protection laws, for which we have fought so hard, being violated by dubious trade agreements in the name of free trade.
We can only approve the report if our amendments are adopted.
