Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I agree with the comments made by the rapporteur and earlier speakers: of course public libraries will continue to occupy a key role in social and information policy in the information society of tomorrow.
We should continue to remind people of this, just as we should continue to call for libraries to retain their role of providing greater democracy and political education, for access to them to be free for everyone - this is a very important point - and for quality to remain high in rural areas too.
That is why in the discussion on the Directive on copyright, it was right to insist that libraries should be granted generous copyrights.
In contrast to the previous speaker, I would like to emphasise two points in particular.
Libraries also have to assume new roles.
Looking at our own patch for example, public libraries could be much more involved as independent bodies providing information on the European Union.
I would point to the very well organised network of Public Information Relays in the UK, which link up public libraries specifically offering EU information.
I hope that as we decentralise the public relations work of the EU, we can also induce libraries to take some of it on.
I also think libraries could already be doing more in terms of acting as transfer points in communicating contemporary European culture.
In practical terms, this could be by way of mutual consultation, by acquiring books and videos from other countries and by directly exchanging stocks of books and multi-media publications with libraries in other countries.
This would be an important step, in keeping with the spirit of openness and tolerance.
I think that lending libraries could also quite easily be small Internet centres for schoolchildren and young persons who want to build up small communication networks on European culture, and here of course it is important that access to the networks for educational purposes is free of charge.
Finally, allow me to make one brief point: if libraries are to continue to offer reasonably-priced access to the cultural wealth provided by books, then in some language areas the tried and tested means of price fixing will be essential to protect the diversity of what is on offer.
I ask you: should only paperback American bestsellers be available in European libraries in the future?
So, I would really urge the Commission not to sink into its dogma of liberalisation and competition, which is not in the citizen's interest, but to give greater thought to private methods of selfregulation in future decisions.
