Mr President, I think that any steps which are likely to improve relations with Turkey are both right and proper, and I therefore unreservedly support the main elements of the Swoboda report, together with the Commission's proposals and the progress report.
There are just three points on which I have reservations.
The first is the lack of openness in our dealings with Turkey, which is why I hesitate about the wording of paragraphs 1 and 29 of Mr Swoboda's report holding out the prospect of membership once again, whereas all the facts and every practical consideration indicate that this is misleading.
Everyone would surely agree with me that Turkey belongs to the family of western democracies and must be part of that family.
For this reason, it should not have to see its application to join put off indefinitely once again.
The 1963 Ankara agreement, signed 35 years ago, does admittedly say that the possibility of Turkey's accession to the Community would be examined, not as an obligation on the Community, only as an expression of its willingness to do so.
But if we now give Turkey the impression once again that accession is imminent, we are being misleading, we are not being honest or open and, as so often happens here in Parliament, we are simply leading it up the garden path.
I would be in favour of developing a special relationship with Turkey.
I fought tooth and nail for the Customs Union here in Parliament and I am a member of the Joint Parliamentary Committee, but raising the bar again now and offering the prospect of accession under far more stringent conditions than applied to any of the others who have joined is simply unrealistic and unfair.
There is one further point which this report does not mention.
Parliament would be well advised to deliver a clear opinion on the failure to implement the financial protocol of the Customs Union.
How can we make demands of Turkey if we cannot eliminate the obstacles that we ourselves have created through Greece's permanent veto?
