Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the PPE Group supports Mr Watts' report wholeheartedly, with two small exceptions, namely Amendments Nos 9 and 14.
I think they go a little too far, but then Mr Watts is after all a perfectionist!
On the matter itself, however, we entirely agree with him.
More than 2000 of our fellow men have lost their life in ferry accidents in the past years.
Unfortunately, Mr Watts, the ADAC study this year showed up considerable safety defects even in countries flying Member State flags.
I think the Commissioner knows what I mean.
We must ensure that all Community ferries flying a European flag fulfil the safety requirements.
Like Mr Watts and his colleagues, we maintain that the Commission proposals for ro-ro ferry operating conditions must be tightened up further.
We agree with the view that it is no longer sufficient to rely on the flag state's safety checks.
We have fallen into that trap too often.
We must ensure that the host state, i.e. the state to or from whose ports a ship operates a regular service used by its citizens, applies an effective, mandatory survey system.
We entirely agree that passenger ferries must be fitted with a voyage data recorder, which must also be equipped with its own battery, as also on the need for strict compliance with the transitional provisions that have applied hitherto.
Passenger safety must be the same for everybody, as must accident investigation, regardless of the age of the vessel or the Member State in which it is registered.
We also agree with the rapporteur that the Commission's database of incidents on or relating to ferries must be accessible not only to the Member States, but also to the public who want to travel on them, so that everyone can find out which shipping lines and which ships are safe and draw their own conclusions.
If shipping companies look at their bookings and find they have fallen, that might lead them to consider bringing their vessels up to the latest standards in order not to lose passengers.
It is certainly also right to accept safety standards in the form that applies during the checks and not as they apply when this directive is adopted, since I believe we will still have to tighten up some areas.
In conclusion, let me draw your attention to a point we keep raising, and I am keen to hear the Commission's reply to the other questions put by Mr Watts.
Our main problem is always that even if we adopt the right directives and hope the Member States will implement them properly, the key question is still this: do the Member States actually apply them, and if so how?
Do they all carry out equally careful checks; in the event of defects do they all draw equally stringent conclusions?
I believe quite a lot remains to be done here and I am eager to know whether the Commissioner can say a few words on this.
