Mr President, Mr President of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, anyone who placed too much hope in the presidency of the Council in Vienna may of course be disappointed.
But anyone who took a realistic look at the situation and state of affairs within the European Union will note with satisfaction that this Vienna presidency of the Council was like a mountain pass between two summits on a high plateau.
The high plateau was created in advance by the decision of principle that the European Union would, in an enormous show of strength, establish a common European currency.
This common European currency, which will become a reality at the end of our presidency, represents a tremendous opportunity for European integration, for deepening that integration, and it has now been supplemented by a stronger resolve to create jobs and work.
I must confess that I too note a certain disappointment in the European Parliament and that I myself am disappointed, for in fact it would be hard to think up anything better than the employment guidelines set out by the Luxembourg summit.
First and foremost we must revive a spirit of enterprise in Europe, and secondly we must promote the ability to find work, through better training and better qualifications.
A third aspect is adaptability.
Retraining is part and parcel of that.
Our workers must become more adaptable and we must finally guarantee equal rights for women on the labour market, something that is particularly important for women.
Over and above that, we can only place more emphasis on certain aspects and highlight the importance of social partnership and a social dialogue at European level.
We must certainly emphasise that.
But let me warn you against any illusions here, for that could only lead to disappointment.
I would like to express a personal wish.
I am firmly committed to the enlargement process and very much welcomed the fact that Chancellor Klima paid a working visit to Poland; I also welcome Vice-Chancellor Schüssel's initiative in visiting all the capitals of the applicant states.
That sent out a positive signal.
It took the screening process forward into a phase of substantive negotiations.
I personally would have hoped to see more definite encouragement given to the Slovak Government and a rather speedier process of accession for the new applicant states, rather than all this being postponed to the next but one summit in Helsinki.
Something should in fact happen during the German Presidency.
That would send out a positive signal about European integration and about the consolidation of Europe as a whole.
