Madam President, Commissioner, you should have begun with the observation you made at the end.
Everyone in the pig market knows why we have this crisis.
Our farmers' associations are still busily trying to encourage the growth of the pig sector and argue in their publications that we should at last reacquire the market shares which the Netherlands lost as a result of swine fever.
Of course, the same applies to the Netherlands as to other Member States.
They are attempting to promote industrialisation in the pig sector, where possible with public funds.
They want the resulting market pressure removed by raising export subsidies.
The taxpayer who has to pay for it, the smaller undertakings and species-friendly stock rearing all fall by the wayside.
We must resist this attempt - and on this point I would contradict Mr Pérez, which also relates to the joint resolution, which we did not sign; we must not give in to this attempt to set up a common organisation of the pigmeat market with state intervention, which would eventually lead to constant surpluses here too.
We must ensure that the market is cleaned up and dissociates itself from those who want it to expand and we must take measures to ensure that species-friendly stock rearing and small-scale pig-farming do not fall by the wayside.
That means that we must make it clearly understood by the Member States, at European level, that agro-industrial production is not entitled to privileges and may not be established in rural areas like other types of farm production, but must be treated as an industry; that means it may only be established in industrial areas and is subject to the appropriate emission rules, like those which other commercial and industrial undertakings also have to observe.
Any privileges must go to farming based on land utilisation, which also applies to pig-farming.
We must also support the regional market.
I personally am not affected by this crisis with my pig production - which is, admittedly, rather small - because I market directly.
Nor am I affected by the collapse of the Russian and Asian markets, because my markets are on my doorstep; the people who want to buy from me - and who are not concerned about Asia or Russia, nor do they believe they ought to eat more meat because of the growth of agro-industrial production - stick to their standards, as I stick to mine.
Nor have I expanded my production.
So I think this is a homemade crisis.
But it also shows the particular risks of gearing production to export and to the world market, because small parties then muddle up all manner of things that could in fact be regulated sensibly in the large single European market.
So I would ask you to let this pig surplus regulate itself and to protect those who must not be disadvantaged, namely small family farms, which might otherwise draw the short straw.
