Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Milosevic has not only waged a war for nine years, a war which began in Slovenia, Croatia and Bosnia.
He is not only establishing an apartheid regime in Kosovo, he is not only responsible for driving people from their homes, for war and death in this region, he is also constantly visiting disaster upon his own people, the Serbs.
He is violating his own people!
Since he came to power, despotism, fear and terror have reigned in Serbia.
He has also methodically destroyed Serbian institutions.
The Serbs feel like pariahs.
Two very eminent Serbs have demonstrated, in an open letter to Mr Milosevic, what he has done to his people.
He has made the university into a local farmers' club, they write.
He has made the Academy of Arts and Sciences into a kind of nurses' home.
He has devalued the media, the parliament, the legislation and the government.
These are all quotations from this letter.
He has allowed the citizens to become impoverished, but has made his wife, his cronies and himself rich.
Hundreds of thousands of young people - the intelligentsia - are leaving the country.
Milosevic is audacious, but the West is too timid, and incapable of putting an end to his activities.
He is still courted and not punished, despite the fact that, firstly, following the result of the Holbrooke negotiations - which actually was not a result at all - he has done nothing to bring a political solution to the Kosovo problem any closer.
Negotiations were supposed to start on 4 November - I did not see anything of the sort.
Secondly, the day after these negotiations, Milosevic banned all independent media.
Thirdly, a few days later, he whipped the undemocratic law on the press through a submissive parliament; this law gags all journalists.
Fourthly, the law on universities contains provisions on making teaching conform to ideology, and that has huge significance.
It is actually driving the intellectual élite out of the country, and those remaining in the country are in internal exile and far from Europe.
The majority of the Serbs are waiting for a coup, which will give them back the air to breathe - the freedom to read, write and see.
The Serbian people would take the next available opportunity to vote these criminals out of office, if they had or saw any alternative.
We need to help to bring about this opportunity by supporting the independent media which can expose Milosevic, and we need to isolate Milosevic as an interlocutor.
The best way to do this is to indict this despiser of humanity for war crimes in The Hague.
That would be a clear sign.
As a German, I can say that with Hitler, a democratic Germany could not have been built.
With Milosevic, Serbia can never become a democracy!
