Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the success of Agenda 2000 with the necessary reforms it involves is the condition for achieving European integration at the beginning of the 21st century.
On 1 January 1999, European monetary union will become a reality - an historic event that many people in Europe still considered impossible only a few years ago.
Monetary union is an example that shows that Europe can make great historic progress and is able to do so if the political actors summon up the necessary resolve.
But it is not enough just to have resolute political actors.
The people of Europe must be able to have confidence in the European Union's decisions.
In fact the people do not want less Europe, they want more.
They want a convincing Europe, a Europe capable of acting at home and abroad, a Europe that is free of corruption and abuse of power, a Europe that serves the people and their interests.
It is on that basis that Agenda 2000 must become a story of success.
I would like to address four tasks.
Firstly, the top priority is enlargement of the European Union with the accession of the Central and Eastern European countries.
The negotiations to that end must be conducted as rapidly as possible, so that the ten nations of central Europe can share the European Union's common values.
This means that the enlargement process must take a flexible and transparent form.
It means that those countries which are not in the first round of the negotiations can quickly move up that to level when they make the necessary progress.
We must avoid giving the impression that the people in some applicant countries are excluded from the negotiation and enlargement process, because it is important to these countries' will to reform that they are also aware that they can soon share the European Union's common values.
The second major task is to reform the common policies, with particular reference to agricultural and structural policy.
Agricultural policy must make its contribution to enabling efficient farms to stand up to competition.
But agricultural policy is not just a policy for farming; it must increasingly include the rural area as a whole.
Conditions in Europe differ from those in the USA.
So Agenda 2000 must make its contribution to the further development of the European agricultural model and thereby to safeguarding it.
Structural policy is aimed at solidarity with structurally weak regions.
I firmly support concentrating these resources, in terms of geographical area and content, on the structurally weak areas.
But we also believe that the regions in what are regarded as the wealthier countries that are no longer eligible for EU assistance must continue to receive a certain amount of state aid, under a sensible competition policy which compares the structurally weak areas in these countries with the wealthy regions in the same countries.
The third task concerns reform of the European Union's institutions.
We are all familiar with the Amsterdam protocol.
But the reorganisation of the Commission, the new weighting of votes in the Council, is not the crucial issue.
What really is crucial is to expand majority decision-making in the Council so that the European Union is able to act now and will be able to do so in future after enlargement.
That is the basic condition: majority decisions in the Council for European Union legislation.
Let me address a fourth aspect.
There has been a government agreement in the Federal Republic of Germany under which the government parties are to be entitled to both posts in the Commission.
This deviates from the principle that the opposition is entitled to one post.
If this becomes accepted practice in the European Union, in the Member States, it would put the political architecture in the Commission at risk.
Under the Amsterdam Treaty, the European Parliament has a new role to play.
The President of the Commission is elected.
The Commission is appointed by agreement between the President of the Commission and the national governments, after which the Commission as a whole is subject to a vote of confidence by the European Parliament.
If we were to have a one-sided Commission in the year 2000, at the beginning of Agenda 2000, that would not be a good start and it could lead to a conflict with the European Parliament, at least with my group.
That is why we believe we must maintain the balance in the Commission.
It must include all political persuasions so that it can contribute to stability and peace in the Europe of the 21st century.
