Mr President, Mr Posselt, let me answer as follows.
I believe the name western Balkans derives from the idea that we need a regional concept.
Perhaps one can follow your interpretation and say that it never existed historically.
But one can certainly also interpret it positively by saying that we need to create prospects for the entire region, and in that respect this is a positive approach.
At any rate, I can tell you that the European Union is firmly resolved to achieve full implementation of the Dayton Accord, and also to get all the forces concerned to declare their support for its implementation.
Of course, that is also closely bound up with the question of what more can be done in Croatia.
May I also say that the Peace Implementation Conference in particular has continually committed Croatia to creating certain conditions, with a view in particular to promoting the safe return of the refugees.
You will know that since the expiry of the UN transitional administration's mandate in eastern Slavonia - i.e. Danube and Theiss - violent attacks and bureaucratic harassment against Serbs have unfortunately led to a continuous wave of emigration, mainly to Bosnia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, but also to Western Europe.
Sadly, we have to say that it was only as a result of sustained international pressure that Croatia finally adopted an acceptable and comprehensive plan for the return of the refugees.
Nevertheless, it remains to be seen how that plan is implemented.
A while ago I quoted Foreign Minister Schüssel, who took part in yesterday's PIC conference in Madrid, and unfortunately I have to say that even a country that has always been very well-disposed towards Croatia, namely my own country Austria, has had to voice criticism, because there was simply not enough headway being made on this issue.
Regrettably, the international community also greeted President Tudjman's speech at the HDZ Congress of 21 February with strong criticism, deploring both its tone and content as clearly inconsistent with the undertakings under the Dayton Accord.
That is why I do not take the view that certain EU circles are systematically pursuing a policy hostile to Croatia, but believe that Croatia itself has very far to go before it fulfils all the objective criteria which have been laid down, knowing of course that some government members are more open here than a number of others.
