Mr President, I regret that the 1996 discharge procedure is not focused on the matter in hand, but has become a political football in the debate here in the plenary.
The only explanation I can find for the Socialist Group's coordinator in the Committee on Budgetary Control stepping down is that she cannot reconcile the way this issue is being dealt with in her own group with her conscience.
The facts are clear and sufficient.
This is not about individual cases, but about the organisation of the Commission's work as a whole, which makes the cases we are talking about here - which have occurred in connection with MED, ECHO, Leonardo and so on - a possibility, which creates favourable conditions for them, and which in principle does not prevent them from happening.
I emphasise quite specifically that this is not about the Commission per se as a whole, but about the criticisms levelled at several Commissioners.
We are thus expecting the Commission to state its position on this.
Mr Samland, it is clear that we are discussing the 1996 discharge.
You emphasised that.
We know that some things have changed in the meantime - and for the better.
But the fact is that there has not been an improvement on every point.
That is why we are not assessing the situation in 1998; that will come later.
I ask all Members still in doubt about which way they should vote whether they believe that anyone will take us seriously in the future, when we have debated these serious accusations against the Commission today, if we grant discharge in respect of the 1996 budget?
To do so would actually be to give the Commission a clean bill of health, a confirmation that everything was in order in 1996.
The agitation of recent weeks would then actually have been nothing but play-acting.
In accordance with the Treaty, we, the European Parliament - as Mr Pasty said - have a responsibility to the taxpayer to confirm that the Commission is using the appropriations in a proper manner.
I cannot accept responsibility for this and will therefore also be voting against granting discharge to the Commission.
Mr Dankert, the fact that we are having a legal dispute is something which should, in principle, go down as a black mark against us, because it actually shows the spirit of the European institutions and those who created these treaties.
We in Europe are always right and we in Europe always act as we should.
That is the only way I can understand the interpretation, at least the one now preferred by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities.
What I mean to say is that we must also be able to contemplate doing the opposite of what we are discussing today, namely refusing discharge.
I must ask those Members on the other side of the House in the Socialist Group, whether it is in accordance with democratic principles - at least this is what I have heard - for dissenters within your group, such as Mrs Wemheuer and Mr Bösch, not to have been allocated any speaking time by their group.
In our group anyone can speak, whether they support or oppose granting discharge on the budget.
(Applause) Mr Samland, if you are accusing us of seeking revenge ...
(Heckling) ... then of course you really are wide of the mark.
You yourself pointed out in your speech that we only settled the BATs issue in the 1999 budget procedure, so that will only apply in the 1999 budget year.
Today we are discussing the discharge for the 1996 budget!
That is why I see it as populism on your part to accuse us of seeking revenge.
I do not believe that this has anything to do with revenge; you have to face the facts - we are talking about 1996.
(Applause)
