Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group I would firstly like to thank Stephen Hughes for his report, which is a good and balanced one, as we have come to expect from him.
The Commission communication, however, contains an assortment of good ideas that have been put into practice but only very modest plans for the future.
The large discrepancy between Annex I and Annex II is perhaps symptomatic of this.
The debate about the new Social Action Programme is taking place in the context of the Amsterdam Treaty; this means that the new instruments - the employment chapter, the Protocol on Social Policy, Article 13 on anti-discrimination and the instrument of social dialogue - should in future ensure a new quality for Europe's social policy.
However, when I consider the Commission plans I am very sceptical.
They contain too many non-binding measures instead of new proposals to expand European legislation.
The consequences of European monetary union, of the euro and of enlargement to the east, on which our committee has often asked for information, are not mentioned.
Coordination of the guidelines and economic policy is imprecise and non-binding.
Two of the three main areas are also absolutely inadequate.
We consider the participation of workers to be relevant to the subject of the world of work in relation to modernisation, but at the moment it seems that the debate on information and consultation of workers has disappeared in the Bermuda Triangle of the Council.
The second area is that of exclusion.
Citizens have lost a great deal of faith in us due to the irresponsible behaviour of the Council of Ministers in this area, and incidentally the poverty reports demanded by Parliament are not mentioned.
The third area is that of jobs and mobility, and here I must in fact praise the Commission.
Many points have already been discussed this morning in the context of the van Velzen report.
However, the courageous decision made by the Commission on the issue of free movement was the right one.
If you continue in this way, including in other legislation, you will be able to count on the support of our committee and my group.
