Mr President, Madam President-in-Office: hear, hear, Mr Titley.
We could, therefore, take all the resolutions which we have adopted and adopt them all over again - this time, at last, with the support of the Socialists - so as to put an end to all that he has so forcefully denounced here.
Thank you very much, Mr Titley; I hope we will adopt a resolution along those lines today.
All diplomacy could achieve with Milosevic was a scornful smile at so much Western stupidity.
Hitherto, he has always simply taken our weakness as a licence to continue the genocide in Bosnia and now in Kosovo.
Unfortunately, however, the situation is even more unsavoury.
The West did not say it explicitly, but at the beginning, the reality was that they let Milosevic kill in Kosovo because he was said to be crushing the so-called Kosovo Liberation Army, whose revolt it was which shattered the deathly calm in Kosovo, and at last turned the eyes of the world on this miserable Serbian regime of apartheid.
Suddenly Mr Rugova is the most important man.
Why, then, did no one help him over the eight years that he led his people in peaceful resistance, hoping for our support?
The crocodile tears which the West now sheds for Mr Rugova, the contravened sanctions and the empty threats are all signs of helpless political disarray.
And now the countdown has started.
It has started, but, we might well ask, where will it end?
What does come after a military strike, which I have been calling for for so long in this House?
The only formula which could provide scope for successful negotiations, mediated by the West, is a temporary international administration in Kosovo, safeguarding the right of the Albanians to live in Kosovo, removing their fears of extermination, and granting them self-determination of their affairs.
Unfortunately, however, I fear that Milosevic will then delay the negotiations, that the cat will lead the mouse a terrible dance and that, ultimately, the West will pronounce the mouse guilty because it did not give itself up to be eaten and because the poor spectators were forced to look on pityingly.
That is how it will end, and I very much regret it.
I hope that the Council, the Commission and the international community will see reason and come to the aid of the people of Kosovo, who are dying every day.
