Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for many years the goal of our European integration efforts was a common economic area without frontiers.
The idea of creating the single market was even, in a sense, the master plan to realise the ideal of peace for the European Communities.
Today we are going a stage further.
To a great extent, the single market has become a reality.
The great goal that awaits us now is the path leading to a European domestic market.
At this stage, the second single market scoreboard affords us a welcome opportunity to assess the progress that has been made in the quest for economic integration within the European Union.
When we embark on the third stage of monetary union in less than two weeks' time, we shall have attained a new level of integration.
We have also implemented or launched a number of projects which are essential to the creation of a European domestic market.
First the electricity market was opened up, then the gas market also became a European market.
Legislation was adopted to guarantee the protection of biotechnological inventions.
We can all remember the detailed discussion here in the House.
Yesterday, we voted to create a system of European warranty law by adopting the directive on certain aspects of the sale of consumer goods and associated guarantees after the second reading.
In addition, the directive on late payments is currently being discussed by the Council, having been adopted by Parliament at first reading.
I personally hope for a comprehensively satisfactory outcome to these negotiations as soon as possible.
That is particularly important to small and medium-sized businesses, since late payments, especially by public authorities, pose a huge problem and result in the loss of numerous jobs every year.
Other projects are still in the pipeline.
Early next year, we shall consider the harmonisation of copyright law as well as dealing with certain aspects of environmental legislation, such as the directive on old vehicles.
We still await an agreement on the European Company Statute.
That is an important basis for the efficient operation of larger companies in Europe.
In the future, we shall also have to give more serious thought to how many legal instruments we intend to apply and the levels at which they should operate.
Deregulation on the one hand and subsidiarity on the other have been concrete demands for some time, and are coming to fruition at this very moment in specific projects such as the SLIM initiative.
Just this week, when we had the vote on the statistical system, several speakers said that it was absolutely essential to implement the SLIM initiative in that area, and we also wish to have a green paper on the subject.
And now it is my turn to express my sincere thanks to the Bureau and the parliamentary staff, and to wish you all every success in the coming year and, as this year draws to its close, a Merry Christmas!
