Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, what some Members see as a summit that will weaken the European Union can, should, indeed must turn out to be a summit that strengthens the European Union.
That does not mean the European Union should take on everything and anything; no, in fact we should distinguish clearly between national and regional tasks.
But in what the Union can and should take on, it must show greater commitment and efficiency.
One example is the foreign and security policy, about which there has already been some discussion today.
We have seen from a number of recent examples that if the European Union pursues a common, clear and definite line it can be successful.
On the question of Kosovo, as we have said often enough: when the European Union took a united stand and when it coordinated with NATO, it managed to make Milosevic bow to its will.
And if we continue to take a united stand then, I believe, Milosevic and also the KLA will bow to it and begin peace talks.
On enlargement, we told the people of Slovakia and Latvia that we do indeed want to negotiate with them, but they must take a few more steps towards democracy, respect for human rights and the rights of minorities.
Both countries have now done so, which shows how successful we were.
It also shows, however, that we must now send out signals to the effect that we have understood, respect and support their efforts.
Mr President-in-Office, you spoke of the important decision to appoint a Mr or Mrs CFSP.
I too believe that this is an important decision.
But we must be clear that this has to be a strong personality, someone who can coordinate and negotiate with the members of the Commission and the individual countries.
In this area, uncoordinated action would do more harm than good.
Mr or Mrs CFSP must realise that too.
You made it plain that the social market economy is a model, a model that we have not just adopted in Europe.
I came back from Russia yesterday, where I noticed how ultra-liberal advisers, mostly of American origin, have put the wind up and misled the Russians, but also Europe, which means that there is much that we must now put right again together.
Of course Russia itself must also put matters right, since it is partly responsible for producing the entirely free market economy, especially given the conditions that have prevailed in Russia over the last few years.
My last comment, Mr President-in-Office, concerns Mr Medina's description of the European Union as rather like a Gothic cathedral.
But sometimes it looks more like a post-modern building with Greek columns, Italian piazzas all around, patios from Spain and Portugal, English and French gardens, bits of German Gothic and Austrian Baroque.
Even a structure like this can be attractive, but in the end it has to be based on a uniform plan.
I hope it will prove possible in Pörtschach to convince all the builders we have here in Europe - sadly there are not enough women builders - to apply all their different styles and nonetheless build a uniform, common structure.
To that end, I wish you much success in Pörtschach!
