Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the crisis that is currently gripping more and more regions in the world and therefore also Latin America is not a disease, but the logical consequence of a world economy that has gone awry.
So there is no risk of contagion, no point trying to vaccinate with new financial injections, as various groups are proposing in their compromise resolution.
On the contrary, injections of finance would only be grist to the mill of those people who have been unscrupulously amassing fortunes in Latin America for years.
All the fiddling and cheating that has been going in Brazilian banks in the last ten years alone can only be described as criminal.
Let me just remind you of the famous 'pink file' affair two years ago.
It contained a list of politicians from António Carlos Magalhães to the former President Sarney who had been receiving illegal transfers for years; the only reason it did not come to court was because these same politicians voted against setting up a committee of inquiry.
Large private banks collapsed by the dozen, the State took over the debts, balance sheets were forged unscrupulously and the ordinary people lost all their savings.
Anyone who in such a situation calls for more liberalisation, fewer controls and nothing but measures to, and I quote, 'ensure that confidence is regained among investors' is asking for trouble.
Just offering funds to service the external debt simply makes the vicious circle rotate even faster.
In the face of the growing poverty in Latin America, it would be cynical of us once again to miss the opportunity to incorporate brakes in the financial roundabout.
Fresh money, new investment must remain in Latin America; at least they must remain there for a minimum period, and they must be used to support local production and promote local consumption.
At the Latin American summit in Lisbon last week, even President Cardoso was prepared to remember his own left-wing past, in view of the crisis.
It was he personally who called for a tax on short-term capital movements and for the resulting revenue to go to poverty programmes.
That is exactly what the so-called Tobin tax is meant to achieve.
It may not be a way of gaining the confidence of irresponsible speculators, but will certainly attract investors who look to the long term.
Ladies and gentlemen, if you endorse our amendments in this regard, we would also be prepared to support your resolution.
