Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I too should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur for his cooperation and his willingness to compromise.
A report on the funding of measures for rural areas is very difficult to deal with, not only because of the host of amendments but also because of the diverse needs of the Member States.
The development and promotion of rural areas is a particular concern of mine, since I am convinced that Europe, in all its diversity, will only have a future if its less-developed regions, including its rural areas, receive targeted and effective support.
I therefore crave your indulgence, ladies and gentlemen, for my repeated interventions in the House on behalf of rural areas, but I consider rural development to be a very important subject which warrants these constant reminders and which needs to be explained clearly to all our citizens.
Alongside regional policy, agricultural policy plays an important role in the development of rural areas.
While regional policy focuses its array of instruments and resources on supporting the rural population and the economic base of small and medium-sized businesses, agricultural policy supports the farming community through the EAGGF.
This fund and the regional support measures are now to be made available as a combined package, primarily to meet agricultural needs and requirements.
In my opinion, this idea of an integrated policy for rural areas is extremely important, but let me emphasise that care must be taken from the outset to ensure that these resources are used efficiently.
In other words, measures which primarily affect agriculture must be financed from this fund, whereas measures that affect rural areas without having any link at all with agriculture and the multifunctionality of rural areas should actually be supported within the framework of regional policy.
I also support the constructive approach based on the principle of good professional practice.
Good farming practice is really the basis of the way in which farmers run their businesses.
They must be specially recompensed for any contributions they make, over and above that basic farming practice, to improve the environment, promote animal welfare, care for the countryside and help society in general.
Let me just remind you of the Commission's policy, the aim of which is a relentless process of price liberalisation; that makes it all the more important that our farmers should have the opportunity to top up their incomes by providing additional services.
I am naturally a staunch advocate of transparency in the production chain, of environmentally acceptable production methods and of high standards of animal welfare.
Farmers, however, cannot be expected to make these contributions without the guarantee of a commensurate income.
It is on that guarantee that the future of our European model of agriculture depends.
