Mr President, I would like to begin by thanking the rapporteurs for their work.
I will concentrate on two points.
The first concerns the legal basis.
As some of the previous speakers have already mentioned, it is very good that with this multiannual programme for energy we have created a legal basis at least for a period of five years.
However, I think it is only a stop-gap measure.
What we really need is an energy chapter in the Treaty covering all forms of energy, so that they all receive equal attention and so that we do not have a situation like the present in which nuclear energy receives more funding than all other types and is given preferential treatment.
In my opinion, an energy chapter of this kind would also help us achieve what Mr van Velzen mentioned, an acquis communautaire in the sector with uniform standards and rules on how certain power stations - and here I do not mean only nuclear power stations - must be set up and what sort of security measures must be taken.
In this way we could also help improve transparency of cost in the internal market in electricity.
A power station which converts renewable energies into electricity requires the local fire brigade in case of emergency.
A nuclear power station requires a range of security measures, and it is possible that a whole area may no longer be habitable if an accident occurs.
The second point which I would like to discuss is the need for a sustainable energy policy to achieve the Kyoto targets.
In this area it is not sufficient to pay lip service.
Otherwise we will not achieve the Kyoto targets, and we will miss the chance to gear the European economy to a modern awareness of the needs of the environment, climate and the protection of resources.
Since the Americans think too much in the short term and have not yet recognised that switching the economy over to energy-saving measures and the use of alternative energies gains much more than its initial cost, we as Europeans have the opportunity not only to take the lead in wanting to protect the environment, but also to push our own industry towards innovation.
When resources were scarce the pressure to innovate was always considerably greater than when we could rely on having a plentiful supply and did not have to concern ourselves with how energy and other resources were used.
I would like to conclude by repeating a sentence which I first said in the House when the Auto Oil Programme was passed.
Modern industrial policy is the same thing as environmental policy, and in order to allow the Union to develop better we must allow energy policy to overlap with environmental policy too.
