Mr President, I hope that you will not need to watch the clock while I am speaking.
This morning we have already heard a great deal on the subject of enlargement.
We have also talked about how this has to do with more than just making use of a historical opportunity, as we have to do a great deal before we can actually use this chance.
We have discussed pre-accession strategies in the applicant countries, which involve driving forward as intensively as possible the process of economic and political accession to a common Europe.
But although we have a great deal to do in the candidate countries, there is also homework to be done here.
We often talk for instance about the need for institutional reforms.
This is an important issue but it is not the only one.
For example, there is much potential here for economic restructuring in order to safeguard our own chances for the future.
In this regard, I think that there is one important key idea.
Austria, the country which probably shares one of the longest external borders with the candidate countries, is justifiably interested in ensuring that the crossing and opening of the common border is organised in such a way as to bring advantage to both sides and harm to neither.
The long discussions in the Committee on Regional Policy have achieved a great deal.
I would particularly like to thank the Regional Affairs Commissioner, Mrs Wulf-Mathies.
Yesterday evening during Question Time, we touched on this subject briefly, and today all sides of the House have rightly emphasised this willingness to cooperate.
It has led to some fine results, but a little bit more could still be achieved.
More could and should be achieved, given that the money is guaranteed and there are many good ideas from the regions.
We should not always be waiting for Europe to lead the way; we must take things in hand ourselves.
On this subject, although in essence we fully approve and support the content of the Commission proposals, we would perhaps have liked to have seen one or two things treated differently.
Perhaps also a separate Objective for rural areas would have been good, although we are satisfied knowing that the rural area can be suitably safeguarded by specifying percentages of the population.
For the next few years and for the transition period the phasing-out rules are particularly important, as is a long phasing-out period for areas which will no longer be eligible for assistance under the future criteria because they no longer need it.
