Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, everyone acknowledges that education and training affect economic competitiveness and progress.
A further consideration for us as Europeans is that if unification is to happen, we must also try to ensure that young people have the chance to experience what Europe is.
This is the most important task that faces us in our work on Europe's education policy.
I support the demands for more funding, though I do not want to say much on the subject, but I would like to go back to what someone said about 'fine words'.
There has not been a single summit that has not called for more funding for education and research, yet what happens in practice is quite different.
I think we really need to insist that the heads of government get a little more out of their finance ministers, because education is a field where work needs to be both extended and intensified.
At home in Austria, for example, there was for three years a very dramatic increase in the trend towards internationalisation among students, though this has tailed off slightly in the meantime.
We must try to encourage this, and it is vital that more resources should be provided so that the applicant countries can take part in the process.
Their students too must be able to experience their future in Europe.
More intensive language training is absolutely essential here, of course, and every ECU is money well spent on the future political and economic stability of the Member States.
However, there are a number of very specific practical problems.
I am told time and time again that the information provided by the national bureaux sometimes leaves much to be desired, and that information is often not getting though in Europe's universities.
Commissioner, we need to examine whether they really are all linked up and whether they really have the most up-to-date information to pass on to their students.
There are also a few other major practical difficulties, such as social security problems, particularly in the field of health care.
Accommodation is another recurring and extremely practical problem.
Perhaps a European initiative to create a common infrastructure dealing specifically with accommodation issues could be of help here.
Education is a task for Europe.
It goes without saying that Europe is an education community.
Let us act accordingly and provide the necessary resources for it.
It is money well spent!
