Mr President, let me begin by warmly congratulating the rapporteurs on their excellent reports, though I must admit that I am more personally familiar with the Roubatis and Barros Moura reports and therefore find it easier to evaluate them.
Mr Roubatis began rather poetically, by thanking the many women and men who have fought for human rights in their countries, and he has indeed dedicated his report to them.
We have heard Portuguese speakers and a Greek speaker; in my case, as an Austrian I know that in the dark hours of our history, when we were oppressed, it was very comforting to receive signs of solidarity from other countries in the world.
In the case of Austria, this solidarity even came from Mexico, from far away.
It is an important task for the European Parliament and the European Union as a whole to give these signs of solidarity.
It is also important to mention at least some of the women and men who are fighting for human rights, as has been done during today's solemn anniversary, because there is one thing we should make clear: it is not a question of Europe taking action against Algeria, against Turkey, against Indonesia or some other country.
In fact, we are often looking at these countries' long-term interests.
We may be against governments, against armed forces or against those in power, but we are for the people themselves who are fighting for freedom, for human rights, in these countries.
We should constantly make it clear that we want to help them, but not out of any feeling of hostility, not out of any negative sense of superiority as improvers of the world.
However necessary it is for us sometimes to resort to sanctions, we should after all be realistic.
What we can and should do - and the reports contain some good ideas here - is to help those who are fighting a difficult fight on the ground, at the risk of imprisonment, of sanctions and perhaps even of death.
As the Commissioner knows and as we also know, that is why it is most important that we also make adequate budgetary funds available, so that we can help those who are fighting on the ground, so that we can publicise their needs and their distress, and so that we can give them political and moral support in their fight.
We cannot conduct this fight with resolutions or with speeches.
We can only point to where the fight is actually being fought by the people themselves.
We can give them moral and political support, as well as financial support on the ground, to ensure that in the end this fight is successful.
Because a successful fight for human rights is a contribution to peace - and we all have a right to peace.
