Mr President, since I had no other opportunity, I must use the explanation of vote to express my opinion.
I did not participate in this debate because I am personally affected, and a low profile should then be kept as a rule.
I owned a retail bookshop in Germany for 12 years before I was elected to Parliament, so the topic which you have been discussing with such commitment affects me personally.
I must say that you have a different perception of reality than I do.
For future reference, the main mistake you are making is as follows: small bookshops are of course protected by fixed prices because it is quite clear that this competition arises the moment the current principle of exclusion of price competition - whereby a small shop's prices may not be undercut by a large shop - ceases to apply, when fixed prices decrease.
No small business has then a chance of competing against Bertelsmann.
That is the case!
Now you ask - and in principle you are right - why we should not give the small bookshop the chance of higher discounts so that it has flexibility in costing.
Do you not know who has to guarantee the discounts for the small bookshop?
Bertelsmann!
It is also the big publishing houses which guarantee these discounts.
Do you believe they are suddenly giving bookshops greater discounts only because you are abolishing fixed prices?
The result will be that fixed prices will decrease, and the lack of discounts will continue, and in the end, 5 0-6 000 bookshops in Germany will cross the great divide.
Why?
So that in the end - and I am firmly convinced of this - the niche culture will also be preserved.
There will continue to be expensive folios and books, but do you know what form they will take?
They will be exclusive and more expensive than they are today!
When all is said and done, you are not thinking of the consumers, whom you have in mind; rather, you are running the business of the big companies, even though you do not really want to.
Perhaps you think about this once again.
