Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Leonardo II is designed not just to supplement the Member States' vocational training initiatives at European level, but actually to advance them.
We must continue to develop a Europe of knowledge and a Europe of innovation in research, development and education, which are both absolutely vital if we are to meet the challenges of globalisation.
However, Commissioner, whether the ECU 1 billion allocated for the years 2000 to 2004 will be enough is extremely doubtful in view of our enlargement plans, and this is why we are calling for a budget procedure in which the funding is fixed every year.
We are also calling for the Leonardo programme to be extended until 2006 with a suitably increased level of funding.
To increase effectiveness, the funding should be linked to other European measures.
The new Structural Funds, Community initiatives, the Socrates and Youth for Europe education programmes, the reduction in the number of programme objectives from 19 to 3 and in the number of areas of action from 23 to 6 - these are more than numerical changes, they all mean that greater effectiveness is required.
Sound basic vocational training should develop knowledge, for example of working with the new information and communication technologies.
Practice with teamwork, group learning processes and good problem-solving skills all equip young people for future jobs.
They need better access to working life from their initial training onwards, and all ages need access to good-quality further training in accordance with the concept of lifelong learning.
There is still a tendency to undervalue or even to despise the experience that comes with age, although many young people could benefit from it.
It is up to us to ensure that older workers remain motivated and active.
If we invest enough in vocational training in the long term, the people of Europe will have a better chance of being able to compete at international level and, equally importantly, of strengthening social cohesion.
Mrs Waddington has produced another excellent report which incorporates almost all the amendments put forward by the Group of the European People's Party.
I therefore hope that she will also accept our most recent amendments, in which we underline the importance of Leonardo for further and continuing vocational training.
We agree that the vocational training systems should focus on reintegration into working life and integration into working processes for those with inadequate or outdated skills.
Leonardo is based on Article 127, the cooperation procedure, and Socrates on Article 126, the codecision procedure.
There is an imbalance here.
Leonardo, which covers vocational education, and Socrates, which covers education in general, must surely have the same status.
Human resources will always be our greatest source of potential, and they must be constantly encouraged, including through vocational training.
Let us hope that Leonardo II will succeed in further developing individual flexibility and personal development into the 21st century.
