Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the beginning of the Austrian Presidency we see that rather a lot was expected of it.
For instance, this presidency was to ensure that the Commission became less omnipotent and that Europe became more renationalised again, in the sense of becoming more decentralised.
And indeed if you look at the situation today, as the Chancellor pointed out, not only has any de-Europeanisation been prevented but in fact Europe is stronger today than it was at the beginning of the Austrian Presidency.
Let me give a few examples, starting with employment policy.
There have been signs of movement in employment policy.
Of course starts were made earlier - in Luxembourg and so on - but there have been instances of movement, although sadly the Austrian Liberal Member, Mr Frischenschlager, has not set any example here.
When he joined this Parliament, he vehemently rejected the idea of any kind of employment policy at European level.
Today he complains that the employment pact is not binding.
That clearly shows that there has been a shift in the mind-set of some Members, thanks not least to Austrian initiatives taken even before its presidency.
But employment policy also implies social partnership.
We know that we need these social forces; that too was confirmed in Vienna and I hope the social partners too will increasingly find the appropriate solutions at European level.
Secondly, it keeps being pointed out that Europe is an economic giant but a political dwarf, and that is indeed how we have often behaved.
Not that all this is now behind us, but in particular through the external representation of the euro - and however critically one might regard some aspects and I would also like to see the Commission have more scope here - it has now been made clear that we must not forget that we are or can be a global power, perhaps one should say a global factor.
So we must have a strong say in the reform of the international financial institutions, in the WTO measures, because we also have a substantive input to make there.
It is not as though we were simply trying to flex our muscles in some kind of power struggle.
After all, we established, formulated and framed a social market economy in post-1945 Europe, with a few inadequacies here and there which we must put right; but we do have a model to offer, which is after all not just a European model.
We do not want to impose it on anybody, but we can regard it as a model worth presenting, and these social market economy components should also be apparent in the international financial and trade regulations.
Had that happened earlier, we would not have seen the events that occurred in Asia and also in Russia, namely liberalisation on the surface without the appropriate institutions for backing it up.
In that respect, I think it is most important that we should increasingly speak with one voice in external economic and foreign policy matters.
The Foreign Minister referred to a range of common strategies, especially for Russia, which is a particular cause for concern and where we are making particular efforts to do something.
Let me take this opportunity to say - since Foreign Minister Schüssel also referred to this - that we must take more rapid decisions.
We are very much in favour of that, and Parliament must do the same, but so must the Council.
We had preliminary talks yesterday with Commissioner van den Broek on the TACIS regulation.
We would like to be able to discuss and adopt the new TACIS regulation in this Parliament before the summer, if we get it on time from the Council, if it is not left in the drawer for months again, because of course the individual countries would like to exert their influence in certain areas.
So I really would beg you to tell your colleagues in Germany too: please forward the appropriate measures that we want to implement to Parliament, so that we can take an early decision on the foreign policy aspects in particular.
The European security policy has also strengthened Europe.
We must take up the proposals that have been put forward, especially since the meeting between France and the UK - where the UK surprised us all by calling so clearly and unequivocally for a European security policy in partnership with the Americans.
That will give all the Member States of the European Union a chance to turn this European security policy into a genuine common security policy.
I need not say anything more at this point about Switzerland's special concerns and the related question of transport measures.
Some people seem to believe, wrongly in my view, arrogantly and I might almost say superciliously, that this was 'only' an interim presidency.
Perhaps it was not a very newsworthy presidency and did not have any great high points, perhaps it was an anticlimactic presidency; but it was a presidency which has brought progress in many areas that had often been neglected for years - I need only think of transport, or of the framework research programme.
We should also show the people that beyond the great media events there is a Europe that is alive, a Europe that is becoming stronger, and that is what the Austrian Presidency showed!
