Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur set about his task with the intention of solving a problem, not with the intention of getting rid of a problem.
In September, he submitted a working paper to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights containing a list of the subjects that should be discussed in an external study he was proposing which would evaluate the tasks undertaken by the Members of the European Parliament.
Moreover, the results of the study were to be on the table in three months, after the conclusion and ratification of the Treaty.
Three months have not yet passed since the working paper was presented.
Although there is no study on the table, we are planning to adopt a complete Members' statute already, with no means of knowing whether the Amsterdam Treaty - without which, of course, the Statute would have no legal basis - will have entered into force before the end of the present parliamentary term in May.
Several times in the course of this debate, I have protested against this type of summary procedure, but to no avail.
I shall go along with this, but I cannot escape the feeling, or indeed the conviction, that we are shelving the problem instead of solving it.
Maximum transparency for all arrangements relating to the Statute - that is our foremost principle, as Mr Fabre-Aubrespy has already said.
The time of day, or rather night, that has been chosen for the discussion of this report in the European Parliament, a time when the public are automatically excluded, as it were, speaks volumes.
Is this our idea of transparency, or is this birth supposed to take place in secret?
In this respect too, I have to conclude that we do not really want to solve the problem but only to rid ourselves of it.
For all that, I recognise unreservedly that a common European statute will be of immense value in lending weight to the European Parliament.
It is a very clear step towards closer integration.
Above all, it strengthens the democratic legitimacy of the European Parliament.
Nevertheless, it is important that such a statute should be adopted by an emphatic majority.
We should be seeking an absolute majority, because it would be illogical for us to make do with a smaller majority while requiring an absolute majority for any amendment, however insignificant, to the Rules of Procedure.
I do not entirely understand why the rapporteur responded so vehemently to the proposal by some Members that our remuneration should be based on a judge's salary.
In my view there is more cunning in the proposal to use the average salary.
It is certainly the line of least resistance, but above all it is a cunning ploy.
To me, however, the most important thing at the end of the day is that we should have an appropriate solution that we can explain to everyone - to ourselves and to the general public.
Let me offer my sincere thanks to the rapporteur for his endeavour in pursuit of this goal.
His efforts deserve our gratitude.
