Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, imagine you are asked for your opinion as Members of Parliament, and it is an important matter.
To put it more precisely, it involves nothing less than the GATS, the General Agreement on Trade in Services under the umbrella of the WTO, the World Trade Organisation, and therefore once again, the financial services.
Imagine then that your role is purely to applaud.
I am certain you would not be satisfied with this.
However, this is precisely the case today.
This is a turnkey agreement which guarantees free market access and national treatment in more than 95 % of worldwide trade in financial services.
Significant progress has therefore been made once again through the unhindered and uncontrolled activity of banks and other financial institutions, and indeed, in exactly 102 countries throughout the world.
Not only that, but shares can also be rotated even more quickly.
As Mr Kittelmann so beautifully puts it in his report, and I quote: 'The volume of equity trading covered by liberalisation commitments alone represented USD 14.8 trillion in 1996.
Total banking assets in the countries that are parties to the agreement amounted to USD 41.2 trillion in 1995.'
Entire countries are therefore being driven into ruin because uncontrolled financial flows cause the national budget to collapse.
We are therefore calling for urgent reforms in the international financial system.
And we are talking about wanting to incorporate safety nets, set up early-warning systems, take accompanying measures, or even promote development policy.
At the same time, we are supposed to applaud because the Commission has once again made a successful attempt at liberalisation, without asking our opinion.
There is an urgent need for reform here.
In the European Union we need Parliament to exert an influence in issuing mandates and following approval procedures in all agreements of global economic importance.
The WTO must also be reformed.
Its sole commitment to liberalisation at all costs is a mistake.
The financial crises of recent months speak volumes about this.
For this reason we do not endorse the report that was submitted.
