I fear, Mr Crowley, that a code of conduct - even if there were not more general reasons against having one - would not be of much help, because the systems differ so greatly.
The hardware is very varied.
Different companies work with completely different computer systems.
It is understandable that more modern computer systems are easier to switch over.
Let me repeat: we did not start working on this just today; we have been working on these issues for the last four years.
As early as four years ago, we also established that it was impossible - or in any case very expensive - to replace all the hardware.
So we put our money into software being developed for the hardware we already had - and we also supported work of this kind in our research programmes - software which could be installed on the existing hardware and would thus take us through the year 2000.
That means, firstly, that there are solutions; secondly, that these solutions are expensive, and that is probably the main problem, because anyone who is familiar with the problem can install this software and will have no difficulty in the year 2000, but they will pay good money for it.
There are many small and medium-sized companies which are probably living under the illusion that they will somehow overcome the problem without having to pay the money.
More recently, I have read advertisements from insurance companies wishing, under certain circumstances, to insure for any damage resulting from a failure, which shows that even in this field offers have become available.
We cannot do any more.
You are facing a situation where, as a public administration, you can do so much, but then the people themselves have to react.
If they do not, then you cannot make up for it.
Everyone knows or ought to know that this is a problem and that there are solutions to it.
People can ask the firms they work with how they are dealing with it.
Obviously, we and the Member States have made the necessary preparations.
We really cannot do any more than that.
Even if the British Government's advice were correct - and I very much doubt it - laying in food supplies will really only benefit the European agricultural policy, though that may indeed be reason enough.
