Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Bösch has very sensibly stated his position today in anticipation of tomorrow's debate.
So I will not add any further comments to what Herbert Bösch said, given his personal commitment.
We will be dealing with the matter in depth tomorrow.
But there is one fact that is quite undisputed: corruption is a phenomenon that represents a huge danger to the rule of law.
We must be fully aware that corruptible representatives always pave the way towards the destabilisation of a constitutional state.
Be they freely elected Members, be they officials, anyone who carries government responsibility, anyone who assumes de facto government responsibility in the free economy and is susceptible or open to corruption helps destroy the cornerstone of democracy, which is transparency, the visibility of government action.
This goes hand in hand with the destruction of trust in democracy, and the moment the public loses its trust in democracy, democracy is finished.
That is to say that the fight against corruption is not just a fight against crime, but also a fight for the stability of the democratic institutions.
We must bear that in mind when we discuss Mr Bontempi's report.
To return to what Mr Bösch said, that is why we must realise that with the European Union in its present form we have built up an organisation in which huge economic powers are amassed, in which huge financial opportunities are being created, but all within a structure that is becoming ever less transparent.
It is not that I am blaming anyone here, let me make that quite clear.
I would remind Mr Bösch that it was very often the Commission that supported our Parliament's calls for more transparency.
The fault lies far more with the Member State governments, with the Council of the Union, which is responsible for what I have just described, i.e. the accumulation of more economic power, more financial power, without a corresponding build-up of powers of control, in particular of Parliament's powers of control.
So I say that if such an important structure as the European Union, in the form in which it now exists, transfers the powers of economic and financial action to an executive which cannot be adequately controlled, that will obviously open the door to corruption.
To return therefore to what I said at the beginning, we are facing the internationalisation of economic power in Europe while national structures are still being used to combat the abuse of this economic power - which is precisely Mr Bontempi's point of departure.
We need to standardise anti-corruption systems internationally with the aim - which I believe we share with the Commissioner - of eventually incorporating them in EU legislative structures.
That would mean giving the EU its own margin of power and discretion in the fight against corruption, which brings us back to the Bösch report which is on tomorrow's agenda.
