Mr President, in what is undoubtedly a good report, the rapporteur has made it very clear how much work awaits the European institutions and how important a prompt changeover to the euro will be to the future of the Community, not only because some 4000 legislative acts will be affected by the changeover, but also because the coming of the euro age will manifest itself in substantive changes to the positions adopted by the European institutions.
The brunt of this effort will naturally be borne by the national administrative bodies, from the tax offices to those responsible for the conversion of parking meters and the levying of public charges, but what we are concerned with here is that the budget of the European Union, agricultural conversion rates, emoluments and pensions should be converted into euros and converted in good time.
In adopting the Green Paper on the introduction of the euro, we in the European Parliament made it very clear that we believe the public sector must lead the way in the introduction of the euro.
Sadly, we could not fail to observe that this has not been the case in the Member States or within the Commission, for it must be remembered that the communication has been in circulation since 1997.
We see no signs of further progress in the domain of secondary legislation, even though the Commission has rightly agreed that there will be further legislative acts.
For the private sector too, I consider it very important that clarity should prevail and that numerous provisions of 'winmark' legislation in the realms of statistics and accounting should be regulated as soon as possible.
One reason why this is so important is that it will enable even more businesses to make arrangements for the timely introduction of the euro, since the statistics still tell us that only about 24 % of European businesses actually intend to conduct their non-cash transactions in euros in the new year when the euro age has dawned.
It will therefore not only be important that the budget is changed over to euros, for although the budget is currently drawn up in ECU, most payments into it are made in national currencies, while disbursements are made in both ECU and national currencies.
We can make truly enormous savings in terms of exchange-rate risks and the cost of financial management, and - as the rapporteur has expressly indicated - the agrimonetary system will benefit when prices and subsidies are fixed in euros, since the old regime with its distortions and pressures will be swept away.
The regulation on the introduction of the euro and the other European monetary legislation have created legal certainty and guaranteed the continuity of the Treaty.
No one may be compelled to use the euro, nor may anyone be prevented from using it; the European institutions are called upon to prove by their involvement in the euro changeover that the euro age has indeed dawned, but that fact must not turn out to be the Achilles' heel of the changeover process.
I am relying here on fresh dynamism and a new wave of activity from the European Commission and the other European institutions.
