Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioners, firstly on behalf of my group, I should like to thank all the rapporteurs for their reports on the Structural Funds, and if I single out Mrs McCarthy and Mr Hatzidakis by name, then it is only because they have done the lion's share of the work.
If European regional policy is to remain effective we must confine ourselves to the main tasks.
The objective is to help the regions that have economic problems, which is why we would approve the idea proposed by the Commission of concentrating assistance on the regions which lag behind in development, namely the Objective 1 regions.
From a geographical point of view also, Objective 1 regions should receive assistance amounting to exactly two thirds of Structural Fund resources.
We urge strongly that the choice of the Objective 1 regions should in future be based on the strict application of the criterion of a regional GDP per capita which is less than 75 % of the Community average.
For us this is a very important yardstick that is significant for the overall evaluation of the report.
I would draw your attention to the fact that those who advocate flexibility on this issue are jeopardising the common consensus and preventing a reform of the Structural Funds as a whole.
At the same time, however, I would urge the Commission to see to it that Objective 1 regions are treated equally when resources are distributed.
In view of the regional slant of Objective 1, I do not think that we can guarantee equal treatment by considering the national criterion of prosperity in determining the amount of resources to be allocated.
We therefore explicitly reject this on the grounds that it would create a new type of unfairness.
As far as the Cohesion Fund is concerned, the opinion of my group is divided.
Some of the group, mostly Members from southern European countries, are in favour of what the rapporteur and the Commission propose, which is a continuation of the Cohesion Fund in its present form.
Others, including myself, consider that the Cohesion Fund has already achieved its most important goal as far as the countries participating in Economic and Monetary Union are concerned, by significantly helping to bring about nominal convergence.
In our opinion there is therefore no reason for it to continue to exist in its present form.
This kind of European assistance consists of temporary measures and should not be considered a permanent acquisition after its aim has been achieved.
This issue is fundamental for a society based on solidarity.
Solidarity is not just a one-way street; it is not just about taking, but must be based on the understanding that there is both give and take.
Otherwise, this solidarity that we all emphatically support will be a very one-sided burden.
