Mr President, this report is an important and extensive piece of work on the role of libraries.
As a member of PEN, I am always glad when Parliament deals with these subjects that are on the periphery of major world politics.
But I must call into question the historical roots behind the library idea, two of which were very important.
The first is to make it possible for the general public to read without having to buy the book, and the second is to enable them to find books which simply could not be found at that time in the many small bookshops.
But both these circumstances have since changed.
Today, books are in the main cheaper and, in what is known as the modern mega-store, every book is in stock anyway.
The challenge is therefore not merely a quantitative one - and this is the weakness of the report - but has more to do with making a qualitative contribution towards solving the problem.
We lack the ideas which would respond to modern consumer needs.
We must ask ourselves why fewer and fewer people are going to libraries.
If consumers no longer need them, then it is the job of libraries, and libraries alone, to win them back.
The report also mentions that libraries are probably never going to be a profit-making undertaking.
They are responsible, though, for arousing interest in consumers, so that they want to come back again and read.
Perhaps not just to read: maybe in future the library could be an intellectual database at the population's disposal.
With the modern techniques of electronic networking, the modern library could be linked up to all the libraries and archives in the world, thereby giving worldwide access to documents, articles and books, as well as all the other publications available.
This for instance would be a service that no bookshop, however large, could provide for consumers, and it would raise libraries' ability to compete.
We come back again and again to the problem of lifelong learning.
It is a right that we are going to have to prepare ourselves for.
Economic differences today are no longer a result of whether individuals can afford a book or not.
That was long ago.
Today, it is more to do with access to electronic information media, and by making learning generally available, modern libraries could help to open up lifelong learning to everyone.
