Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Turkish Prime Minister Mesut Yilmaz is obviously making it difficult for us to discuss the development of relations with Turkey dispassionately and to come up with coherent proposals for the European Union sine ira et studio .
Threats against the government of one of the Member States, Italy, a boycott on Italian goods and political attacks on the European Union are, I think we would all agree, hardly the best way for the largest of our associated countries, Turkey, to achieve closer relations with us.
However, we should not allow the excellent report by Mr Swoboda, which could provide guidelines for our partnership strategy, to be swamped by the reactions to the issue of the handing-over of the Kurdish leader Mr Ocalan.
I also welcome the Commission's decision to issue its usual annual report on the state of relations between the European Union and Turkey in the same form as the progress report produced for the other applicant countries.
This means that we will have a clear list of the progress, or lack of it, that Turkey has made on the political, economic and social requirements.
We in the Committee on External Economic Relations feel that it is important in the medium term progressively to consolidate and intensify economic and political cooperation with Turkey in a spirit of partnership.
For the European Union this means - as its side of the partnership - fulfilling its financial commitments in the context of the Customs Union, including Turkey in European programmes such as Leonardo, Socrates and Youth, and coordinating policies on energy, transport, the environment and combating drugs.
I would agree with Mr Swoboda that we should not issue Turkey with a list of demands; it simply needs to have a kind of action plan on Europe to improve the coordination of all its efforts in the fields of democracy, the rule of law and human rights, including also the accompanying economic conditions and the adoption of the acquis communautaire , and it should raise the profile of these efforts, which are its guideline for intensifying cooperation.
If the Swoboda report can be used, as before, in a positive spirit to tackle the problems which exist between Turkey and the European Union, assuming that it is adopted by Parliament tomorrow, then we feel able to vote for it as a set of guidelines.
However, we feel that if it becomes excessively bogged down in certain issues, it will simply be counterproductive.
