Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will begin by thanking Mr Wiebenga, our rapporteur, who as expected has produced an excellent, careful and very balanced report for Parliament.
I should like to point out that - contrary to the impression which Mrs Zimmermann and Mrs Van Lancker sought to give - this is not a question of whether refugees are admitted into the EU or not.
Of course refugees from civil wars are admitted into Europe, in their hundreds of thousands.
The problem is burden-sharing.
The question hiding under the title 'temporary protection of refugees' is essentially whether, as in the case of former Yugoslavia, two countries - namely Austria and Germany - should take in more than twice as many refugees as all the others put together, or whether a just way of sharing the burden should be found; that is the political problem.
In any case, no one in this House who is to be taken seriously disputes the fact that people should be admitted under humane conditions.
The problem has been an urgent one ever since the civil war in Yugoslavia put hundreds of thousands of people to flight.
Since then there have been calls for burden-sharing.
To briefly recap the course of events: some time ago, after prolonged hesitation and prolonged pressure on the part of the countries concerned, the Commission drafted an initial proposal on this subject.
I do not wish to examine now why we deemed this to be inadequate, whether it was because the Commission did not dare to do more, or - and I have to grant you this, Mrs Gradin - because it saw clearly that this was all that could be achieved.
The gist of this first draft on the actual important issue of burden-sharing was, however, as follows: in the event of a mass influx of refugees, the Council considers the appropriate measures, so not with the objective of approving assistance.
No, it considers the appropriate measures and in doing so meets its commitments.
This was an absurd way to settle the burden-sharing issue and thus also failed to be supported by a majority of the Council.
The Commission has redrafted its paper and has now come up with a very peculiar idea.
It has now proposed two legislative acts, the first on admitting refugees and the second on solidarity in the admission of refugees.
If you take a closer look - something I strongly recommend - you will see that the decision to admit refugees is taken by a qualified majority; if necessary, therefore, this can even be decided if the particularly burdened country admitting the refugees votes against.
You will also see, however, that the solidarity measures - the assistance - require unanimity to be approved and are not a binding stipulation; in the Commission proposal this is only a 'may' provision.
That is decidedly too weak.
This is not the solidarity of which the title speaks, but is clearly only the solidarity of those who wish to reject a fair system of burden-sharing.
That is why we cannot accept these two proposals in this form.
What we are calling for and what should be proposed is the following: the burden-sharing must take place at the same time as the refugees are admitted.
When the refugees are admitted, it must be clear straight away which countries are to admit them and in what proportions, which should take into account the countries' capacity and economic performance.
If that does not happen, there will not be any burden-sharing at any later stage.
Certain details also ought to be mentioned.
We place the emphasis on admitting the refugees into different countries, not on financial assistance.
We would also ask you to consider, Mrs Gradin, whether five years is the right duration for the temporary admission regime.
Five years is more of an indicator of immigration than temporary protection.
From my own experience, I know that once someone has been there for five years, they will find it very difficult to leave their host country again.
We will certainly have to discuss all the other details.
I might mention the problem of family reunification.
It would be better to give someone outside the Union the opportunity to come in, rather than giving someone who has already come in the possibility of bringing his whole family to join him straight away.
That increases the number of those admitted and the corresponding burden.
The question for us was a political one: is the progress being made here such that, despite all the criticism, we can approve it; or is it so little that, if we agreed to it, we would meet with the reproach in the future that it has already been settled?
We say that the progress being made here is so minimal that we cannot pronounce ourselves satisfied with it.
That is why, Commissioner, we must unfortunately reject these two proposals.
