Mr President, many very important and accurate comments have been made today about the importance of the education programmes.
I would stress that it is vital that we facilitate and broaden access to the education programmes in general, particularly for young people from the countries of Central and Eastern Europe and those from socially weaker groups which tend not to have access to education.
The education and youth programmes clearly demonstrate European added value and have a multiplier effect, while at the same time preparing young people to be mobile and to be involved in the Europe of knowledge.
The Leonardo programme facilitates the development of specialised knowledge in Europe about vocational training and increases mobility.
The Socrates programme, having gone through a highly successful first phase of promoting European cooperation in university education, school education and language teaching, is now to be extended to cover adult education and those who left school without qualifications.
It is also important that all young people in Europe should attain a basic level of knowledge.
I therefore feel, like previous speakers, particularly Mrs Pack, that the call from the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media for funding for the Socrates programme to be increased from ECU 1.4 billion to ECU 2 billion is the most important of its demands.
It is also important for the Youth for Europe programme to have its funding increased from ECU 600 million to ECU 800 million if we really want to try to double the number of young people involved, which is the Commission's aim.
It is absolutely essential if structures are to be simplified and communication improved.
I would like to thank our colleagues, particularly Mrs Waddington and Mrs Pack, for producing their opinions so quickly, with the result that we will now probably be able to have a first common position during the Austrian Presidency.
I was particularly pleased that at the informal meeting of ministers in Baden there was already broad agreement on increasing funding and on the fact that the education programmes should be less bureaucratic, more transparent and more decentralised.
I therefore hope that there can now be fruitful cooperation between Parliament, Council and Commission for the benefit of education in Europe.
