Madam President, a great deal has already been said about these reports, especially about Mr Oostlander's report.
He too regretted that insufficient progress was probably being made in the fight against racism and xenophobia.
We should not forget, however, that measures can actually be taken in every domain of our activity in the European Parliament to curb these appalling tendencies.
I believe there is one section in particular in Mr Oostlander's report - the section in which he deals with foreign policy measures - which is extremely important.
As you know, in our immediate neighbourhood we have a country to which we have been devoting much of our attention recently; we have talked a lot about helping that country.
It is a country in which racism is so rampant at the moment as to be scarcely imaginable.
That country is Russia.
Unfortunately, we do far too little reporting on it here.
Yet there are innumerable cases that could be discussed.
At the last part-session here in Parliament, one of the topical and urgent subjects we dealt with related to General Makashov, who is a member of the Central Committee of the Communist Party, who based part of his election campaign on the slogan 'Kill all Jews!', who is a member of the Duma and who has never been properly taken to task - as he should have been - for his statements in the Duma.
I find this immensely disquieting when I think that there are minorities in Russia of which many of us have probably never even heard.
Please allow me to highlight one or two of them, because I simply believe it is important to speak about these things here.
One of the examples is the Jewish minority - and I have mentioned them specifically because of General Makashov's remarks - who still live today in the so-called autonomous Jewish province.
They were resettled there, forcibly in some cases, in 1927 and in the early thirties.
The area where these people live today is known as Birobidzhan or Yevreyskaya - Hebrew - Autonomous Province, on the north bank of the River Amur.
Writers of that time said of the province that it was so bleak and its climate so inhospitable that before the many thousands of Jews were settled there, the entire area of 36 000 square kilometres had only had 1 192 inhabitants - Koreans, Kazakhs and a few Evenki, whose numbers were constantly dwindling because they could barely eke out a living in the harsh climate.
Even today some of the original Jewish deportees still live there, and the main local magazine is one that is still published in Yiddish.
I believe that, especially at a time like this when someone such as General Makashov is making remarks of that sort, we must not forget people like the Birobidzhan Jews, who live in such a remote place and whose existence is truly threatened.
I should like to add a second brief point.
This same Russia that allows such things to happen has uprooted other peoples too, not least the Chechens, who have been completely uprooted twice in the last 150 years.
Russia drove them right out of their land, but they kept coming back, and the legacy of that can be seen today.
So our foreign policy is certainly one channel through which we really can take action against this entrenched racism.
