Mr President, the amendments proposed by the European Commission are to be welcomed, since they are designed to help the visually impaired, to protect consumers and to thwart counterfeiters, as the rapporteur has indicated.
To be perfectly honest, however, I must say that Parliament was aware of this a year ago and came up with some very sound proposals.
The Commission considered the proposals to be good, but not practicable because of the timetable and the early deadline.
I therefore find it regrettable that lobbying in the course of this year has resulted in changes being made to the draft regulation after all.
I thought we in the European Parliament were still supposed to be the legitimate representatives of the consumers and citizens of Europe.
I consider it right and proper that the 50 cent coin should be 0.8 grams heavier so that coin-operated machinery can distinguish more reliably between 50 cent and 20 cent coins.
I consider it right and proper that the edge of the 50 cent coin should differ from that of the 10 cent coin, since it has proved difficult for people with visual impairments to distinguish between the two.
For these reasons the proposal merits approval, but there seems to be no logical reason why Parliament's proposals in particular could not be implemented, given that our findings should have carried at least as much weight as those of the specialised associations.
Every effort must now be made to ensure that these coins gain acceptance, not only in the financial markets and among financiers but also among the general public.
Since monetary stability is so especially important to our citizens, the mints must be able to guarantee at this juncture that the currency will still be counterfeit-proof after these alterations, for I believe that was one of the arguments used against the European Parliament proposals.
I also endorse the rapporteur's view that we need a sort of stability symbol in this economic and monetary union which will grow into a community rooted in stability.
What is the reason for minting a 100 euro coin in gold?
I believe there is every reason.
For one thing, the proposal is consistent with the decision of the European System of Central Banks to hold only 15 % of currency reserves in the form of gold.
In view of the high gold reserves held by the national central banks, this proposal makes sense from both a monetary and an economic point of view, because it precludes the adverse effects on the price of gold that would result from any dissolution of gold reserves.
A gold euro coin can also help to build confidence in the stable foundations of monetary union.
That is certainly an important reason.
In the past, many European governments have used metal and its value to prove their commitment to stability.
A euro coin made of gold can therefore continue this laudable tradition.
That is why it is high time that the European finance ministers and the central banks decided in favour of the gold euro coin, because unless the resistance of the central banks is overcome, another initiative will come to naught.
If there is a surprisingly heavy demand for these coins which creates an imbalance between their market value and their nominal value - and I say this partly to calm one or two fears - production of the gold coins could be halted.
That has happened with other coins, such as the French silver coin.
But in that case too, the effect of the initial commitment was to stabilise the franc.
The finance ministers' argument that there cannot be a 100 euro coin because there is already a 100 euro note seems a fallacious one to me.
Such duplication occurs in certain monetary denominations in many countries.
It is possible, after all, to ensure that banknotes and coins of the same denomination are not competing for public favour.
The 100 euro coin is also an overdue successor to the 200 franc Napoleon coin which circulated throughout Europe; it will be a collector's piece, a coin of value, a symbol which may well help the euro to win over the hearts and minds of the European people.
