Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, you will be amazed that I of all people am the first and only one here to observe that the Commission proposal is quite balanced, considering the tight financial framework.
It makes sense to concentrate resources on the weakest regions.
The Greens support the Commission proposals, even though we must of course observe that the Commission did not show any internal flexibility concerning the limits on resources in its own sectors, nor was it able to develop coherent structures.
I must simply say that there is no uniform structure for assisting the rural area, and no attempt is made to find a solution to the problems of European regions which share borders with the applicant countries.
In other words, there is no attempt to establish the possibility of cross-border assistance in these regions.
The common fund is the only useful solution and the Commission has still done nothing in that regard.
It is of course undeniable that progress has been made.
Most importantly, in the Structural Fund Regulation, we have finally been able to introduce sustainable development as the central objective.
The economy, ecology and social security need to be re-balanced once again if regions are not to stay connected to the drip forever but instead to undergo stable development.
Of course, for this type of stability, the participation of the local and regional players and social groups is crucial.
The Structural Funds have this democratic approach.
Parliament has put forward some crucial improvements in the Committee on Regional Policy, which could allow the social players a decisive say in drafting the plans.
Unfortunately 'could' is about as far as we will get, because everyone knows that the new legal basis comes much too late as the plans were ready long ago.
That is why today, Commissioner, I expect you to give us some idea as to how, in view of this dilemma, enough time can be found for the democratic participation stipulated in the Structural Fund Regulation.
In conclusion, it makes no sense for us to push through old claims of entitlement here, as though this were some kind of fair.
The Structural Funds are not akin to a shop that is there to serve Member States.
We are called upon to support the German Government's plan to conclude the Agenda 2000 package in March.
It really is the last possible opportunity for us to grant regions assistance in January.
