Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, when Chancellor Kohl and Jacques Chirac wrote to Tony Blair a few months ago calling for Europe to be brought closer to the people, they were speaking from the hearts of many.
The people are aware that the list of the Union's shortcomings is a long one.
Let me just list the most recent headlines.
A Union of fraud cases and secret Council meetings, a Union unable to speak with one voice in foreign policy and take action in a common foreign and security policy; a Union that puts forward a best practice model while unemployment stands at 18 million.
The expectations of a political declaration on the subject raised by the subsidiarity letter have accompanied us right up to the special Pörtschach summit.
What signals will this special summit send out?
Pörtschach is no longer concerned with closeness to the citizens.
Any debate on the meaning of subsidiarity has been buried prematurely with the lethal argument of renationalisation.
Pörtschach is concerned with the future of the Union, or so I have read.
But it does not want any quarrels about Agenda 2000 or net contributors.
Yet these questions that are to be excluded from the discussion are in fact questions of the future.
We are told that the institutional reform of the Union cannot be discussed at Pörtschach because Amsterdam has not yet been ratified.
The truth is, in my opinion, that the presidency of the Council is rather relieved to have this as an argument for not opening up a Pandora's box.
I fear that in Pörtschach nobody will be keen to burn their fingers on difficult issues.
So they are to be left out of the discussion.
Yet many areas need reform, even without amending the Treaties.
This could have been a chance to show a little more courage and send out a signal for Europe.
If Pörtschach is to become a summit of missed opportunities, then I would ask you to consider, Mr President-in-Office, that the loss of credibility and sense of disappointment may lead people to ask: 'what for?'.
