Madam President, enlargement of the EU with the accession of the Central and Eastern European states and Cyprus is not just a project starting with the new century, it is also a task for that century.
And a project of this scale calls for an exceptional effort on the part of all concerned.
Indeed, everyone has now realised that this primarily means the applicant states.
But in the light of the real differences between us and the applicant states, for instance in the economic and social field, I continue to believe that in general the European Union is still not making enough efforts to meet this challenge, not least in financial terms.
But be that as it may.
In the given circumstances, I believe the Commission has nonetheless submitted proposals that are for the most part viable and at least still give us a chance to master this important process of accession to the European Union and give it a positive shape.
I would like to address one detail.
I believe it is more necessary now than in past enlargements to familiarise the public administrations in the applicant states with the aims and procedures of the acquis communautaire at all levels- not just at the highest level, where this is certainly already the case, but also at lower levels.
In my view, we are still underestimating the background situation of the majority of these states, namely a dictatorship system with the corresponding type of administration.
Moreover, we all too often forget that the same people are still working in the lower echelons of this administration, who are of course now endeavouring to work under the new system.
But we should gear parts of our pre-accession aid much more specifically than in the past towards retraining the administration.
On the other hand, it is probably less necessary now for western Europe to finance new studies.
I believe it is enough to analyse what we already have in that respect.
Let me come back to our task for the new century.
We should approach the interests not only of the applicant states but of course our own interests too in the most fair and balanced manner.
But above all, as European democrats we should also be thankful that we can take part in this historic process.
