Mr President, I would like to comment further on the van Velzen report in the light of this morning's debate.
Employment continues to be first and foremost a task for the Member States.
Guidelines and coordination are useful and good, and I too hope that they will allow us to promote and develop employment.
But we must be careful not to do as we did this morning and talk as though we alone at EU level are capable of solving the problem of unemployment.
By doing so we are merely giving the relevant national politicians the opportunity to pass the buck to the EU or the European Central Bank if national labour market policy fails.
Incidentally, calling the Stability Pact into question has the effect of threatening employment rather than promoting it.
I call upon the Commission to give greater prominence to updating minimum social standards in the Social Action Programme 1998-2000.
A fundamental aim of European social policy is to develop a European framework of social legislation that guarantees a common basis of binding and enforceable minimum social standards, which does not demand too much of weaker states and does not prevent more developed economies from maintaining or improving their social standards.
At least, this is what I have been told, Commissioner.
However, those countries which are weaker in economic terms have made progress since minimum standards were established, which is why I would repeat that the further development of minimum social standards must be seriously taken in hand.
Existing gaps, such as the inclusion of homeworking, teleworking and contract workers, and the reinforcement of information, consultation and participation procedures, must be dealt with by introducing new directives.
These gaps must be closed.
I would also like to comment on the social dialogue.
I support Mr Peter's demand that the social dialogue must be placed on a broader basis of organisations, and despite your optimism, Commissioner, the results of the social dialogue have so far been disappointing.
In my opinion there is a great deal to be done, and if need be we must put the situation right by means of directives.
