Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree on the need to protect patients - and many here have spoken of a high level of protection; but I too feel that the level of patient protection should be defined in far more specific terms.
I too am concerned with defining this high level of protection.
It is not enough for us to say: someone else has to give consent for those who are incapable of giving their informed consent.
No!
That is why we have tabled an amendment which provides quite plainly that no research may be carried out on people who are incapable of giving their informed consent unless it is of direct use.
This is a crucial point, because what would happen in the reverse case?
If we do not endorse this amendment, then that would surely automatically mean that anyone at all can consent on behalf of these people who are incapable of giving their informed consent, and that research can be carried out on them which is of no use at all.
Then we really will be treating people to whom we have promised a high level of protection just like guinea pigs.
In my view, we must not forget either that we are running a risk of opening the door to eugenics, unless we guarantee a direct level of protection.
The past has after all proved that we must not carry out research on the mentally handicapped who are incapable of giving their consent, unless it is of direct use.
So I would very urgently ask you to support this amendment by the Green Group, so that we can ensure precisely that.
Let me also place special emphasis on this aspect against the background of the heated discussions we have already seen here in the European Parliament, and especially also among many social groups, concerning the bioethics convention.
The Federal Republic has not signed this bioethics convention, for precisely the reasons I have just given.
That is why our prime concern should be that we do not approve a directive which does not specifically guarantee protection for people who are incapable of giving their informed consent.
I would therefore ask the House to endorse our amendment, which makes it clear that research may only be conducted if it is of direct use, and that any other research is quite out of the question.
