Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the social dialogue procedure is still a relatively new arrival in the European Union.
After two successful test runs involving the guidelines on parental leave and on part-time working, we now have a Commission communication that is considered to be a revision and a new direction.
The Commission has not provided anything new.
The rapporteur, Mr Peter, whom I should like to thank warmly for his collaboration, has put a great deal of effort into his report.
Nevertheless, it cannot be overlooked that the trade unions had the lead role in this extremely important text.
There need not be anything wrong with this if negotiations remain balanced and fair.
It is difficult to understand why the Commission should give increased support to only one side: that of employees' representatives.
The ETUC certainly does not require any coaching or particular support in its work.
The financial support provided by the Commission for the ETUC should also be adequate.
I would now like to address a key issue.
The current round of social dialogue takes the form of tripartite negotiations, and many who cannot take part directly in the negotiations object to this.
The Commission has not been able to come up with any satisfactory proposals.
The Christian trade unions are still waiting in the wings, as are many representatives of small sectors and areas of employment.
Even if 80 % of UNICE's members are from SMEs, UEAPME, as a direct and individual SME representative at EU level, has so far been forced to adopt a completely unacceptable position in the social dialogue.
Our group has protested against this again and again, and has asked that UEAPME be included.
UNICE and UEAPME are now concluding a contractual agreement that should allow SME representatives to participate directly in negotiations within the context of the social dialogue.
I deliberately say 'should', as we will have to wait and see how it works and whether the UEAPME representatives consider themselves to have been accepted.
This would solve one problem to a certain degree, even if it is only a stopgap, but other parties continue to be excluded from the negotiations.
We now urgently need the study of representativeness that the Commission announced in 1996, and then we will have to take another long, hard look at the participants in the social dialogue.
At that point, at the very latest, the position of the European Parliament as the only democratically legitimate body of the European Union will have to re-examined, since our role in the social dialogue is also unsatisfactory.
We therefore continue to have two major problems facing us in the context of the social dialogue that are only too familiar to us.
Our group is determined to continue to work towards a solution to both these problems.
We owe it to the small organisations.
