Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party welcomes Mrs Mann's report and congratulates her on her very useful arguments presented here over 43 pages, though they have been overshadowed by current events.
The USA's relations with the European Union are a high priority for all of us, and in future, despite all the conflicts caused in our bilateral relations both by ourselves and particularly by the USA, we will continue to place great importance on the fact that we are dependent upon one another.
Bananas, hormones, steel, the US trade deficit, all these things make us nervous.
What increasingly concerns me about our relations with the USA is the fact that it is always the parliamentarians who put their governments under pressure and that administrations are often too cowardly to observe WTO rules because they always have to give in to domestic policy.
It is precisely this that should make us, as Members of the European Parliament, intensify our own contacts with Congress, and not rely on the Commission, which always seems to be told: we cannot do anything, it is the members of Congress who do that.
The Helms-Burton and d'Amato Acts, which violate the principles of international law, were also the work of members of Congress.
Thankfully d'Amato cannot be voted in again, so that leaves one less to be considered.
I say this because it must be clear that, as Sir Leon said, it must be the WTO requirements that determine our rules.
The WTO sets the standard for free competition, and in free competition we compete with each other.
Competition will become increasingly fierce, borders will become increasingly fluid, technology and in particular investment will become an area over which we Members of Parliament no longer have an overall view.
We do not always see the source of the conflicts in question.
This is all the more reason for us to support the Commission so that it does not debate for too long or look for compromises, but can often take a tough stance.
The USA often accuses us of being only paper tigers or lightweights because when it is being tough our reaction is not tough enough.
We must move more quickly in future with the new measures.
As Parliament we can perhaps take a tougher stance than the Commission does.
We are also accused of not really being affected by the growth of the Asian markets while the USA suffers as it has to take in all the cheap products.
We face the same the problems, although it has to be said that one or two aspects of our trade policy are also rather doubtful, and this has nothing to do with the USA.
We must monitor this and not simply say for the sake of national interests that one form of protectionism is good and the other bad.
None of the 15 Member States would bear scrutiny here!
In conclusion, I believe that an appreciation of mutual-interest politics is always advantageous if we advocate the interests that are important for our European economy strongly and consistently.
I would encourage us to intervene again in the current discussion about the USA's violation of the principles of international law.
This report has given us a good opportunity to do so.
