Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Sarlis, we cannot overlook the presence of the Commissioner who is here and who represents the Commission.
Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by fully endorsing the position of the Council and its presidency.
I do so not because it is an Austrian position, and certainly not for party-political reasons, but because I really do believe that it is based on the right considerations.
I have been saying for some time that we will not achieve a peaceful settlement in Kosovo without the threat of military attack.
However, I do not accept the view expressed by some Members here that we must take military action under all circumstances.
Nobody knows what the consequences would be of an air raid.
Everything we have to do now, we would also have to do after an air raid, with the many, many disadvantages which that would entail and which we would have to take on board if no other solution is found.
One disadvantage - and let me emphasise this, because I was in Moscow on Monday and talked with members of the Duma, with the chairman of the foreign policy committee and others - is that with the fall of the Iron Curtain and Communism we must do all we can to incorporate Russia into a European security system.
But I also said that even if Russia vetoes it, we must be present and, if the worst comes to the worst, launch a military attack.
Nonetheless, it is naive not to say dangerous, it is playing with fire to believe that we could certainly find some way to leave Russia out of it and even that we should provoke Russia.
After all, the nationalist forces in Russia are just waiting for this kind of attack to change the climate in Russia accordingly.
To take the example of the bear, we all know that an injured or weak bear is often more dangerous than a strong bear.
I think it would be a totally wrong approach deliberately to annoy Russia.
I think the right approach would be, as the President-in-Office said, to involve Russia as far as possible in a peaceful solution, without however abandoning our objectives.
That is the Council's position.
That is why I think we should adhere to this position.
It must be made clear that the observers sent to Kosovo will of course be protected.
If any problems arise there, these units, these monitors, must receive adequate military and police protection.
We cannot gamble with the lives of these helpers.
But it must be made clear that the less we seek to achieve that aim with armed forces, the more we can achieve it with civilian forces, the better for us all.
After all, we must not forget what happens to a country, to a people that is being shelled.
As I said, this would not just engender corresponding support for the forces of nationalism, for example in Russia, but perhaps also keep Milosevic even more firmly in the saddle.
We must remember that if we follow this road.
That is why we should not play with fire, Mr President, but keep to a sensible but hard line, as we have done in the past.
We should continue to take this common approach!
