Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner van Miert, I know, of course, that the market's invisible hand which controls and resolves everything finds no more faithful a group of followers than the Commission.
In a manner of speaking, it is the Vatican of free competition, and I know, of course, that you are the Grand Inquisitor of this free market economy.
I also know, of course, that this inquisitor scrutinises the European market every day in order to find heretics of all kinds, trends towards the formation of cartels, and distortions of sacred competition, and as soon as his scrutinising eyes fall on anything confusing, or on anyone wishing to obstruct this invisible market force, the process of the Holy Inquisition is initiated.
Commissioner, I would sometimes like matters pertaining to environmental protection, social affairs or civil rights to be scrutinised in this way.
Unfortunately, the Commission does not regard itself as the Grand Inquisitor of this Union for these matters.
Its eyes have therefore now fallen on a small matter under the heading of books.
The Commission has now discovered for certain that underhand dealings are going on in this area.
You have this in common with the Vatican's history.
You are now placing this book on the index of free competition because people do not know how to handle it properly.
They do not sell it like drawing pins or computers but have a complex, inscrutable, and even precariously erotic relationship with it.
Commissioner, when Beckett received the Nobel prize for 'Waiting for Godot', all 300 copies of this book were sold in the German-speaking area of Europe.
I understand that you believe that it is not worth the expense and that it would probably have been better not to publish these 300 copies, since there is obviously no demand for them.
You are right to say that a book has something in common with a good, and that is supply, but it is not subject to demand.
A book's search for its readers is involved and mysterious.
Sometimes it lasts decades, and I think that it lacks culture to reduce this complex search simply to the way the market works, and what lacks culture quickly becomes barbaric.
