Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the European institutions talk about the Citizens' Europe.
In this vote on the directive on guarantees, Parliament has an opportunity to show how citizen-friendly it is.
The common position is to be welcomed, and it is a good basis for the second reading.
The Council has accepted some important amendments introduced by Parliament, though unfortunately not all of them, but it has also included some new provisions.
The Council's adoption of the two-year guarantee period is positive.
The amendment for used cars was in my opinion quite defensible.
According to this amendment, the Member States can provide that buyers and sellers may agree a shorter period, though this must not be less than one year.
The Council has also confirmed that the burden of proof is reversed in the first six months following purchase.
This means that where a product is not in conformity with the contract it is assumed that the defect existed at the time of purchase unless the seller can prove otherwise.
It was also accepted that the seller should be liable for public statements that are product-related, for example in advertisements, if he cannot prove that he was not aware of these.
Although the Council is proposing a less stringent rule for the commercial guarantee provided by the manufacturer or seller, this will in future be more transparent.
What is stated in the guarantee declaration must be observed.
It is important that reference must be made to the fact that the consumer has legal rights that cannot be affected by the guarantee, which is what Parliament wanted.
The Council has accepted the hierarchy of remedies requested by Parliament for defective goods, although in my opinion it has worded it in such a way that it is difficult to understand.
The consumer can request repair, where possible or reasonable, or a replacement, where one is available.
If neither of these is possible he can insist on the cancellation of the contract or a price reduction.
This is acceptable thus far.
However, what Parliament should not accept is that in the event of a minor lack of conformity the buyer cannot insist on the cancellation of the contract.
In practice this means that if a defective product cannot be repaired and a replacement is not available, the buyer will admittedly be given a price reduction but will still be left with a faulty product.
I consider this to be unacceptable.
In addition, the question arises as to who defines a minor lack of conformity.
The directive should not really serve to create work for lawyers.
I would therefore urge that Parliament should delete Article 3(5).
Also, in paragraph 4 of the same article there is a translation error in the German and English texts.
It should read 'within a reasonable time or without any significant inconvenience', as it does in the French version, and not 'within a reasonable time and without any significant inconvenience'.
The Commission, Parliament and the Council aimed to achieve a minimum level of harmonisation of the consumer goods guarantee with this directive.
On one point, however, the Council seems to have forgotten this in its discussions.
The common position wants to allow Member States to provide that, in order to exercise his rights, the consumer must notify the seller of the lack of conformity within a period of two months of detecting it.
This is inconsistent with minimum harmonisation.
Very few Member States wish to introduce this obligation to notify a defect.
It was simply a sweetener for one Member State so that it would approve the common position, which it then did not do.
A two-month obligation to notify a fault in some EU Member States is inconsistent with harmonised internal market rules, invites the informed consumer to lie - after all, how does the seller know when the defect was detected - and confuses the consumer when buying in another EU country.
A Frenchman who is not familiar with the obligation to notify a fault in his own country, buys a product in Germany and for reasons of time or distance does not report the defect in time and tells the truth out of ignorance, forfeits all his rights.
A buyer who buys his goods locally and discovers a defect will immediately inform the seller because he wants to use the product.
This is generally what will happen.
The committee therefore asks for this rule to be deleted without replacement, and I also ask Parliament today to approve this.
The Council is requesting 36 months for transposition into national law, we are requesting 24.
There will be greater price transparency with the introduction of the euro, and I hope therefore that consumers will make greater use of the internal market.
Minimum harmonisation of the consumer goods guarantee needs to be introduced at the latest along with the introduction of the euro as cash, so we should keep to our 24 months.
The committee has also retabled other amendments from the first reading.
We have already adopted Amendment No 25 several times in other directives.
I know that one group is now against this.
The same applies to Amendment No 27, which was adopted by an overwhelming majority in Parliament in the report on consumer access to justice.
Like myself, you have all received letters from credit institutions concerning Amendment No 17.
However, Amendment No 17 states clearly that it concerns payments to the seller by instalments, as agreed by the seller, which should be able to be suspended until the defect has been rectified by the seller.
It does not concern bank credit, which of course cannot be interrupted because of a defect.
Unfortunately, because of the time available I cannot justify each amendment.
But I can assure you of one thing: at first reading both the committee and Parliament ensured that a balance remained in place between buyers, sellers and manufacturers.
Now, in conclusion, I would like to thank everyone, the Commission, the British and Luxembourg Presidencies and Members who have supported us.
