Madam President, the Socialist side of the House is currently undergoing a very interesting process of change.
This began with the governments, firstly with New Labour's new realistic attitude towards the issue of asylum, which admittedly does not yet go far enough, but the first signs of which are visible.
It was followed by the discussion paper presented by the Austrian Home Affairs Minister, Mr Schlögl - also a Socialist - and now we have the German Home Affairs Minister, Mr Schily, all of a sudden saying that immigration into Germany and the influx of asylum seekers and refugees of civil war have exceeded both reasonable and manageable levels.
He does not even say 'have reached'; he says 'have exceeded'.
It is certainly interesting to see this, standing as it does in stark contrast to the point of view consistently represented by the left side of this House.
This shows precisely the difference between ideology and practice.
The practice is, of course, due to two points.
Firstly, the figures, which Mr Pirker has already explained so impressively here.
I really should like to say that Germany, for example, has, over a period of ten years, admitted an average of 50 % of all asylum seekers, and at times up to two thirds of all refugees of civil war.
That really is an extreme situation.
Secondly, this new attitude on the part of some ministers is of course also due to public opinion, and in politics we have to be realistic and take public opinion into account.
We want to give shelter to the persecuted.
We want to give them protection and security, but it is precisely when I want to do this that I need acceptance, and I can only win this acceptance if the burden of admitting the people is shared, so that quite rightly the burden falls equally on each of the Member States.
We cannot content ourselves with a few set phrases on this, as this proposal - or pseudo-proposal - does; we need real burden-sharing based on definite quotas of people.
The Bavarian Minister of the Interior, Günther Beckstein, has proposed to you, Commissioner, that a central European office should be established to set these definite quotas and allocate them.
We are still a very long way from this; we would be happy if at least a first step were taken here towards more Europe, but this pseudo-proposal is a step towards less Europe.
You see, it tries to avoid solidarity and at the same time to patch up this gap with words.
That is why we must also reject both these proposals, because we believe that they would be more suitably entitled: missing the point.
I really do believe that it is possible for any Member State to be faced with a disproportionate share of the burden, and I should like to say this to our Spanish Members, amongst others: it is actually not the case that this issue only concerns Germany, Austria, the Netherlands and one or two other countries.
Something might blow up tomorrow in the Mediterranean area which then affects Spain, for example, in just the same way, and here too there will be calls for solidarity.
Solidarity is reciprocal, though, and this problem can affect all Member States to different degrees and at different times.
That is why, before the catastrophe overtakes us, before problems arise, a set of burdensharing instruments need to be created, and here I must add - and I am grateful to Mr Pradier for what he said on this subject today - that this would of course include prevention.
We must not stand by and watch until the influxes of refugees descend upon us; instead, we must intervene in good time - as for example in Kosovo - to ensure that the conditions are created on the ground to enable people to live in safety in their homes.
