Mr President, the problem we are discussing today, food aid to Russia, is of the utmost importance.
It is important because, in recent weeks and months, Russia has not only been experiencing an economic and financial crisis, but is also having to live with the effects of crop failure.
In 1998, only half as much grain was harvested as had been expected; the potato harvest does not appear to have been much better; and in the allotments, which most Russians have - and which indeed they need for their basic food supplies - much poorer yields have also been produced.
The decline of the rouble has compounded the problems.
Most Russians can hardly afford to buy themselves food.
They are living either below or on the poverty line.
The need for aid is therefore beyond doubt, and I was able to see this for myself on visits to Russia in recent weeks.
Children and the elderly, in particular, are urgently dependent on our help.
Indeed, the first reports of people dying from starvation have already appeared in the media here.
At the moment, only one thing is certain about the food aid which the Council and the Commission wish to provide: it is help for European farmers, who are no longer able to sell their products on the Russian market because of the devaluation of the rouble.
Whether the food really does reach the orphanages, schools and hospitals, where people really need it, remains somewhat in doubt.
Agricultural products should be sold at market price, and the income paid into a special fund in the Russian budget and later used for social purposes.
There is no doubt that the Commission needs to consider once again here whether its approach is really the right one.
We cannot allow food to appear on the black market, or even to become a Russian export.
We want to support the poor in Russia and not the mafia.
That is why, in the motion, we call for humanitarian aid, as well as food aid, to be provided.
The Russian Red Cross, the churches and NGOs have pledged to help by identifying where need exists and distributing food and medicines, and they do have the required distribution systems.
A further issue is financing the food aid.
If it is indeed the case that this also helps and supports European farmers, then we believe that the funding should come out of the category on agricultural policy, Category 1, and should not be charged to external policies, even if it is benefiting Russia.
I would urge the Commission to take the necessary decisions here.
Food aid will not solve the structural problems in Russia.
Russia needs to take action itself on that front, and finally present and implement the appropriate plans.
