Mr President, Commissioner, people can only say the kind of things the previous speaker has just said if they believe they can turn back the clock.
The European integration process is marching on, if not perhaps at the pace President Kwasniewski suggested here today.
He beautifully described the dynamic of the Polish development process, and also said that Poland would probably no longer need any transitional periods.
I do not share his view.
I believe that Poland will certainly need transitional provisions with regard to economic and environmental matters, and not just concerning the free movement of workers.
But I do not want to go into that any further at this point.
The fact is - and I am assuming that we all want this integration process - that the quality of the EU enlargement process very much depends of course on the quality of the preparations for it.
That is why it is extremely important to coordinate the aid and the structural policy instruments.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs was particularly concerned with social and employment policy questions.
We must firmly support social policy mainstreaming.
That is why it is so important not just to strengthen the administrative structures of the institutions, but also to promote the social dialogue.
Here the aim is to develop, structure and support employer/worker relations in European policy.
That is the only way to make European policy at all meaningful and transposable.
The social partners are best able to do this.
The PHARE instruments, which are primarily designed to support institutional development, provide the framework conditions for promoting social dialogue in the appropriate manner.
Mrs Wulf-Mathies addressed this matter yesterday, when we were discussing the social dialogue in Europe, and Mr Flynn also underlined its importance.
If that applies in Europe, it also applies in the integration process.
That is why we must support the concept, and of course the further development of the social dialogue in the framework of enlargement.
