Mr President, this situation is nothing short of surreal.
Obviously, we are in favour of air strikes in Kosovo or on the Serbs.
The question is, who can make the decision?
It can only happen if there is a proposal from the United Nations, a Security Council decision on the basis of a proposal by Mr Annan.
But, now you are saying, if they are not in a position to do this, then..!
I tell you, if we are as strong as we are claiming to be, why has Mr Rühe - still the German Minister of Defence - who is in favour of air strikes, not yet ordered his troops in Bosnia to catch Karadzic?
There are 50 000 soldiers there.
It is possible to catch him, but we have not done so, and all of a sudden we are being all pragmatic and wanting to threaten Milosevic with air strikes.
Everyone knows that this is not the way heroes behave.
Mrs van Bladel is right there.
If we want to have a say in Kosovo, then we have to be prepared to leave 30 000 soldiers there for a certain period of time.
You are right there, Mrs Pack.
But then we have to actually do what we say.
And that means not discussing air strikes, which will not solve anything, but doing some straight talking about the action we need to take.
I ask you: why did we not do this in Bosnia?
Why do we not make sure that all those who should go to The Hague actually do go there?
We mentioned Karadzic.
That is why I do not believe any of you.
I do not believe you when you say that you want a solution!
You know that the situation is unbearable in Kosovo.
This fact is unbearable for all of us.
But, Mr Titley, you have a stake in Mr Blair.
You all have a stake in some government somewhere, on which we are not getting a return.
All of a sudden, we are playing at being strong.
I tell you, it is a drastic solution and a drastic situation, but it will not be solved by a Parliament which is so bigoted, that faced with a drastic situation it always responds in the same way and is never in a position to implement what we have the potential to do.
That is why I ask you to deliver a strong resolution, but also to conduct a strong policy in your countries, to prevent your government from allowing itself to be blackmailed by Russia.
Mr van den Broek, if you can speak so plainly with us, then speak plainly with Mr Primakov for once as well.
The solution is also to be found in Moscow.
'No money if there is no change in Kosovo, ' in whatever language you like.
That is what you need to tell the Russians.
Say it clearly, and your colleagues Trittin and Fischer should say it, and all the rest.
Then there will be change in Kosovo.
