Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this report deals with the Commission reports on the implementation of the Nitrate Directive, which, amazingly enough, has been in existence since 1991.
The problems connected with nitrate are not new, nor are the solutions proposed here.
We should not be intimidated by this.
We should concentrate on continuing the work which has already been begun, while at the same time avoiding trying to take on too much.
We all agree in principle.
We now need to implement the directive in the Member States and ensure that it is transposed and applied consistently.
We do not need to change it.
The European Parliament should encourage the Commission to take stricter action against the Member States which have not yet fulfilled their obligations arising from the directive.
Sometimes we get tired of playing this game.
On the one hand, we have constant demands from some quarters for greater subsidiarity, and on the other hand the Member States are not willing or able to play their part in areas in which there is no question that Community cooperation is needed, such as here on environmental policy.
The amendments tabled by my group aim to emphasise the demand for consistent implementation and application of the directive.
There is little point in overloading Parliament's resolution.
For example, we cannot make it compulsory to comply with the code of good agricultural practice if it has not even been defined at European level.
Furthermore, the requested limitation of the number of animals per hectare will not be necessary if the Member States apply the directive in the first place.
In addition, we reject absolutely the inclusion of Agenda 2000 criteria in this report.
The Agenda, as we know, is currently only under discussion, and demands of this kind tend to dilute Parliament's actual intentions and are only grist to the mill of those who advocate subsidiarity, and who would accuse Brussels of stipulating the number of cows in the fields!
We should concentrate our efforts and insist that whatever is necessary be done, and what needs to be done is already stated clearly in the Nitrate Directive.
