Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the uniform format for the form is concerned, I agree with the rapporteur that this can actually be adopted as it stands following our vote in the committee.
Since this is a form which is produced solely for the purpose of having a visa issued on it, Article 100c of the EC Treaty is the right legal base, even though the jurists were again unable to agree on whether this assessment was correct.
We did actually have two reports on the subject.
I think it is necessary, from a political point of view, for the uniform format for the form to be implemented on the basis of Article 100c.
Parliament has always given priority to procedures which allow decisions to be taken by a qualified majority.
With the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, unanimity will, unfortunately, be the rule in the case of visa arrangements for a further five years, before decisions are taken by a qualified majority.
However, it is clear which direction we are going in.
In the field of, 'visas, asylum, immigration and other policies related to free movement of persons', the Council will act by a qualified majority in the foreseeable future.
I do not believe, however, that after another five years of unanimity, the Council will find it any easier to act by a qualified majority than it does now.
I also support the rapporteur's view that we are in the business of adopting uniform arrangements in Europe in the fields covered by Title IV of the Amsterdam Treaty.
In that sense, the European Commission's role will in any case need to be increased accordingly.
That means that it is incumbent upon it, and not the Council, to present technical specifications for this form, and it is for the Member States to be available to discuss production centres.
On the airport transit visa, the European Court of Justice has in fact delivered a very clear ruling to Parliament.
The legal base of Article K.3 only provides for cooperation with the Member States in this field.
That was already clear to us in the committee.
We do, however, want to make the Council stronger than the Member States and thus help it to take common action, including on visas and illegal immigration.
In the committee, we have already made both the arrangements applicable to statutory stateless persons and refugees and the exceptions to the requirement for a visa dependent on a joint decision in the Council.
We wish to achieve the same thing for amendments to the joint list.
I therefore also urge you to support the corresponding amendment to delete Article 4.
Article 9 gives each individual Member State the possibility of suspending the positive lists.
I believe, however, that given that we have common external borders, we need to have common rules on visas and visa stamps.
That includes these transit visas.
I think that if the main purpose of these visas is to combat illegal immigration, then it would be appropriate to have a uniform procedure.
That is what is provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty.
I would therefore urge you to continue on the path which Parliament has already chosen, and also to delete Article 9.
