Mr President, Commissioner Monti, if I did not have another exciting topic to deal with this evening, I would like to ask you about the new duty-free development.
But this is not the time to do so, so I will turn now to the Souchet report.
Having fought for it for so long, as we have heard, fishing with drift nets in the Atlantic and the Mediterranean was finally banned in June of this year.
This was long overdue in order to protect our scarce fish resources in an ecological and sustainable manner.
Yet we must not forget that the ban results in further economic loss for the fishermen in the countries concerned, fishermen who were already experiencing serious problems.
We must provide at least some compensation for this loss.
According to the Commission proposal, both the fishermen serving on board and the owners of vessels should receive compensation.
But the authorities and other investors will also suffer financial loss, as in recent years a great deal of money has been invested in improving infrastructure such as port facilities and markets.
As fishing activities decline, however, these investments will become economically less viable.
And this is in a situation where fishermen are to receive compensatory payments for giving up fishing, which may lead them to stop early.
But we want the profession to remain intact, so incentives must be created to help in particular the younger generation of fishermen to change to alternative fishing methods.
We would remind the Council that it wanted to promote diversification into other techniques.
It now has an opportunity to do so.
Furthermore, the Committee on Fisheries is of the opinion that the aggregation of funding to allow diversification by fishermen should be guaranteed beyond the end of the FIFG in 1999.
The Group of the European People's Party approves Mr Souchet's amendments here.
However, in the opinion of my group, diversification must take place immediately and should not wait for a decision by the European Court of Justice.
