Mr President, Mr Dupuis, I believe that there is one thing in particular that you can say about Bosnia-Herzegovina, and this is that if the international community had wanted to break its promises there, as you suggest, then it would certainly not have sent multinational troops, and would not have such a heavy commitment there to this day.
It is precisely because we want to implement the Dayton Agreement that we have all agreed on involvement and it will continue.
For the first time since the Dayton Peace Agreement was signed, moderate parties in favour of the Dayton Agreement are in control of the legislative branches in both territorial areas and at all national levels of government.
For the first time the whole of the State Executive was able to support the Peace Agreement.
Although the result of the presidential elections in the Republika Srpska does constitute a symbolic defeat, it is compensated for by the substantial gains for parties supporting Dayton at all levels of government.
It remains to be seen over the next few weeks whether the Sloga coalition in the Republika Srpska will be able to retain control of the Parliament and whether they will still be putting the prime minister forward.
As for the Croats, the new member of the State Executive, Antejelavic, is going to organise a meeting of the party in October in order to reform the HDZ.
The EU has the following thoughts on these developments.
Firstly, measures need to be taken to guarantee the coherence of the Sloga coalition.
Secondly, the Republika Srpska should be shielded from the effects of the Kosovo crisis.
Thirdly, at the HDZ party conference, more specific reforms should be decided upon.
Fourthly, the preparations for the local elections in 1999 should be taken in hand.
Finally the integrity and transparency of the financial conduct of elected bodies should be ensured.
These considerations should enable us to be prepared when we go into the next Peace Implementation Conference in December in Madrid, where we will continue to advocate a multi-ethnic, pluralistic Bosnia.
