Mr President, the world economy is undoubtedly caught up in a significant crisis.
Nevertheless, the data for the European Union are extremely encouraging.
This year's average inflation rate for the countries participating in monetary union is expected to work out at 1.5 %, their national budget deficits at 2 % and their economic growth at 3 %.
It is a long time since such favourable economic statistics were last recorded.
For all our discussion of the global crises, it is worth emphasising that the European Union is the bastion of stability in the world, not least because of the decision to introduce the euro, Commissioner de Silguy.
These are the facts we have to discuss.
We must not forget that.
Mrs Randzio-Plath's report contains many useful ideas, but there are some points to which we certainly cannot subscribe.
I intend to enumerate these points in the short time at my disposal, since I do not expect to be given so much additional time as the honourable Members on the other side of the House.
First of all, we do not believe that there is any benefit at all to be derived from short-term capital controls.
Secondly, the establishment of a Security Council for Economic Affairs under the auspices of the United Nations is nothing but a pipe dream.
Thirdly, Mrs Randzio-Plath, Amendment No 5, which you foisted on us by way of a compromise, seeks to omit investments from the calculation of the budget deficit under the stability and growth pact.
There was absolutely no need for you to defer to Mr Lafontaine in that way!
Nevertheless, we do need transparency in the realm of finance.
Let me briefly list the three things we need.
Firstly, we need transparency at the national and international levels, because the markets could not function otherwise.
Secondly, we need a multilateral monitoring system, especially in the domain of fiscal policy.
Thirdly, we need reforms in the context of the national finance markets.
The fluctuation margins for the yen, euro and dollar proposed by Mr Lafontaine are unhelpful, because we can only earn the right to make such demands by pursuing sound economic, fiscal and monetary policies.
That is precisely the path which the European Union is following.
We therefore welcome the approach proposed by the Commission.
