Madam President, thank you for the ten minutes.
I already had one from my honourable colleague, so that makes eleven.
I shall begin with my own three minutes.
First point: We must remind ourselves clearly of the aim of these accompanying measures under Regulations 2078 and 2080.
Mr Fischler, you were not yet the Commissioner at that time, and Austria was not yet in the EU.
The aim was not to create an innovation programme, but rather, as the term 'accompanying measures' suggests, to establish mechanisms to accompany price reductions.
These reductions had not been properly implemented and, as a result, certain farming activities outside the high-performance areas had been pushed to the brink of unprofitability.
The intention was to compensate for this, which is why Regulation 2080 gives farmers the opportunity to afforest land that has been taken out of production.
That was the aim behind these environmental measures.
The fact that it has now developed into an innovation programme - and this is my second point, Mr Fischler - has nothing to do with its aims, but rather with the way it has been used by interested parties.
Austria is a good example.
The Austrians joined when the scheme was already operational and soon began to use the special production methods dictated by these environmental requirements as a cachet of quality for marketing purposes.
The same applies to the organic farmers, some of whom are not even based in less-favoured areas, who have also joined this scheme and have been able to live with these rather small compensatory payments because the environmental tag has secured higher prices for their produce.
It says here in Mr Iversen's report that the farmers and regional authorities in the more favoured areas have not otherwise availed themselves of this scheme, but that is precisely because these measures and the payments granted for them would not have compensated for the loss of earnings in these areas.
So it was an accompanying programme, and the interested parties have turned it into an innovation programme.
My third point concerns the funding issue.
This scheme, of course, came under the heading of compulsory expenditure.
I recently spoke to the Basque Agricultural Minister.
He had visited Austria and was quite astonished to discover how much Austria obtains under this scheme.
And so I asked him why the Basques had not been doing the same over the past few years.
It was a notifiable Commission programme.
Measures would have had to be paid for, because it was a compulsory scheme and was covered by the guarantee section of the EAGGF.
In this way these funds could have been increased, we should have had a higher budget today, and there would have been no need for us to press for this increase.
My final point relates to the future of this programme.
Here I agree with you.
This programme must be incorporated into the second pillar, and the way to do this is to take what has actually been done, to take this scheme that was launched as an environmental programme and turned into an innovation and marketing programme for special organic produce, and to combine it all with a structural programme for the integrated development of rural areas.
So I am in agreement with you here.
What I do not agree with, of course, is that you as a Commissioner are making the mistake of...
(The President cut the speaker off)
