Mr President, you said, Mr Santer, that you had set the Commission a full programme for the coming year.
That is good, because not only is this the last year of this term of office, it is probably also the most important, if you look at the challenges facing the European Union, and thus the Commission.
The key word is Agenda 2000.
You said quite rightly that the development of Europe is at stake here, and we will need to make every effort if this process of development is actually to lead anywhere.
The Commission can be assured of the European Parliament's cooperation, precisely on this important issue, if it actively seeks this cooperation from Parliament, and if it grants the European Parliament the legal powers which we must otherwise wait for the Treaty of Amsterdam finally to bestow on us, in particular when decisions are made about the important reforms covered by Agenda 2000 - the common agricultural policy and structural policy - but also where financial decisions are concerned.
A further important point is implementing the transatlantic economic partnership.
This crops up time and again, but in the future, next year and in the years thereafter, it will have to amount to something more than repeated displays - all too common in reality - of our obstructing one another's trade in petty quarrels about relatively unimportant matters; I am thinking here of bananas.
My third, final and, in my view, most important point is as follows: you said that the Commission had to ensure that its house was in order.
This morning in the debate on the discharge, we heard that Parliament wishes to set the Commission a particularly important task in this respect, with a view to cleaning up the Commission.
A set of Staff Regulations which does not just meet with the approval of staff representatives should make a significant contribution to our being able to clean up the Commission.
This starts with the recruitment of officials.
Both selection procedures and in particular the procedures by which senior officials are appointed need to be run quite differently from the way in which they have been run all too often in the past.
The key word of transparency should not remain simply a word; we also need actually to put this transparency into practice.
I have one final point, which cannot be overlooked.
In my view, it is important for the Commission also to resolve to pursue the individual responsibility of Commissioners in particular cases, where that proves to be necessary.
