Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is rather like a family party here tonight!
The PPE Group supports the development of framework conditions for the deployment of telematics in road transport because transport telematics can significantly increase road safety, improve traffic flows and thereby reduce the environmental damage caused by traffic.
We thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
But let me make two points of criticism.
We Christian Democrats believe that, firstly, the advantages and disadvantages of road pricing need to be checked thoroughly.
Secondly, we categorically reject new charges for driving into towns.
On my first point, electronic, distance-related charges - called road pricing in short - for goods transport by road or even for private motorists may in theory be fairer than non-use-related charges.
But we Christian Democrats fear that the costs of introducing and maintaining this kind of gigantic electronic system - for all 15 countries and not just one or two, and here I agree with Mr Stockmann - will be so enormous in practice, for the Member States, the private HGV companies or indeed the individual citizen if this kind of system is also applied to private cars, that it will no longer have any economic advantages over the current system of road-use charges or tolls.
In that case it would be better simply to give up the idea of road pricing altogether.
At any rate, we Christian Democrats totally reject a road pricing system that would involve a special charge for lorries or cars entering the inner cities.
Inner-city parking fees, whether on the roadside or in car parks, are enormous, in my country at least.
It costs DM 2 to park for half an hour in my home town, Hamburg, which is pretty steep!
So I believe that we really would be putting too much of a burden on the consumer, the customer, if we also introduced a road pricing system for driving into the inner cities.
High charges would in effect put an end to delivery traffic into towns, and also make it impossible for customers to reach business centres.
On the one hand, we keep saying that we must revive our inner cities.
On the other we force drivers out to the suburbs, to the big shopping centres, so that they no longer come into town.
We want jobs in city centres, we want the inner cities to be alive and well.
That is why we emphatically reject charges for entering the inner cities!
