Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, nobody, including this Parliament, comes back to the same question twice without reason.
We are not doing this to avoid boredom or because we do not know how to spend the day.
It would have been better if we could have clarified everything that needs clarifying in a report.
But in our view some important points were not clarified, and nor have they been in the meantime, unfortunately.
I am emphasising this again, although Mr Fabra Vallés has already made the point.
If we assume that only a court or the appropriate judicial authority can decide whether the facts of the case constitute grounds for criminal proceedings, then the judicial authorities must be in possession of all the information.
But then 'all' unfortunately really does mean all, because who could make a selection?
The Commission's relationship with the Member States' judicial authorities is simply different from the situation that would apply within a Member State.
A special relationship, or perhaps a too poorly defined relationship, exists between the Commission, the Commission officials, the buildings, the documents in the possession of the Commission and the other European institutions on the one hand, and the individual national judicial authorities on the other - and obviously only national judicial authorities can consider the case.
We are aware of this difficulty, as is the rapporteur, who has taken it into account in his report.
Nevertheless, we must urge that decisions are taken in the place where they belong, namely by the national judicial authorities.
So let me ask again, and for the last time in this form, please make all the files available to the judicial authorities and do not say, as also happened again with ECHO: first the Commission decides whether there is a case to answer, and then it also decides what facts are relevant to resolving or clarifying that case.
We would not be so persistent - as shown by my reference to ECHO - if this were a one-off case.
But it is a problem we have been facing for quite some time.
Hence our persistence here, the persistence of the rapporteur but also of the Committee on Budgetary Control and, in the end, of the House itself.
We all regret having to keep doing this.
We hope we will come to a conclusion now and take a decision.
I think perhaps we will, and we must also undertake to review these questions in depth in connection with the discharge.
We must be prepared to do so, the Commission must be prepared to do so, but so must the Court of Auditors.
I think we will also be discussing our relations with the Court of Auditors today and considering how rapidly we can deal with the questions that arise from this.
After all, this report also shows that there is no point spending too long and too much time on formalities.
We have asked enough specific questions in committee and had to wait too long for answers.
That is another reason why we have had to come back to the same question twice in the space of about a year.
We shall have to find other ways; they will be more precise and will certainly not involve any lesser degree of care.
Let me perhaps make a final point on a question arising from this report but which has also come up repeatedly in the past.
If someone criticises the implementation of a particular policy, it is always assumed that they are criticising the substance of that policy area.
I believe that is unacceptable.
It is done by public opinion, but it is also done here in this House, and I think the two are often confused during the debates.
Mr Fabra Vallés said it all at the outset.
It was in our interest to resume the MED programmes.
We did all we could to enable the Commission to resume the programmes.
That was our priority.
But this could not detract from, or in a sense overshadow the fact that we are also looking at how they were implemented in the past, because our criticism of their implementation is fundamental and concerns the management of programmes in general and personnel management in general; then, in a sense, the affair of the MED programmes is merely an example of something we are criticising on principle.
Then ECHO is merely an example of something we are criticising on principle, the tourism case was an example of a matter of principle, and we must all learn that we can criticise general structures on the basis of one example, and that this criticism goes far beyond the report.
