Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the establishment of the European Observatory for Racism and Xenophobia takes its place alongside the adoption of the anti-discrimination clause in the Amsterdam Treaty as another success in the fight against racism.
The observatory will be of great assistance to us, since the data it collects will give us a clearer picture of the nature and extent of racism and xenophobia.
Comparisons between Member States will also become possible.
Better information makes for greater effectiveness in the fight against racism.
The Commission's plan of action contains sound measures, such as the promotion of cooperation and partnership at all levels and the development of a mainstreaming approach.
I believe that the promotion of pilot projects and networks is particularly important as a means of encouraging active experience-sharing.
There is a need for innovative anti-racism projects.
Nevertheless, I agree with Mr Oostlander that the plan of action still suffers from a shortage of specific detailed proposals.
The development of hostile attitudes must be counteracted from an early stage in the education process.
Parents and teachers bear a great responsibility here.
During the years I spent working with parents, I always tried to encourage better mutual understanding of different cultures in kindergartens and schools.
Intercultural lessons, projects undertaken by schoolchildren and the active involvement of parents help to nurture the growth of a tolerant intercultural society.
I shall continue to dedicate myself to that aim.
At the European Conference on Article 13 of the Amsterdam Treaty, which I attended in Vienna at the beginning of December, we were explicitly warned against overlooking the threat to Europe from racism and xenophobia.
Both phenomena, it was said, had become increasingly widespread, but the priority given to the efforts to suppress them did not reflect the seriousness of the threat they posed.
The persistence and pervasiveness of racism, xenophobia and anti-Semitism in Europe are alarming and make it increasingly clear that action on a European scale is urgently needed.
This means that early ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty is essential, since the Treaty must enter into force before draft legislation for the suppression of racial discrimination can be introduced.
Finally, we can but hope that we succeed in the course of the coming century in creating a continent in which racism can no longer take root.
This remains a vital issue for the future of Europe.
