Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, more and more people in Europe are alarmed at finding themselves greeted on the eve of the twenty-first century by the face of the nineteenth century.
An increasingly aggressive neoclassical economic ideology is evidently trying to force us into this withdrawal into the past.
This neo-liberalism regards unemployment almost as an indicator of modernisation, seeing workers' falling incomes as progress.
Deregulation has become a kind of pseudo-religious commandment.
Meanwhile, the financial markets are reacting quite euphorically to announcements of staff cuts and redundancies.
The havoc which this ideology has wrought in recent years in South-East Asia, in the newly industrialised countries and in Russia has obviously made little impression.
Anyone who does not want to return to the nineteenth century is branded a reactionary.
Politics has been concerned for years with mass unemployment and growing poverty.
But this has produced little, apart from the literature of political commitment and social poetry.
One cannot avoid the impression that some sectors of European policymaking seem to regard themselves almost as the acolytes of this aggressive ideology.
So we call emphatically on the Vienna summit to decide on practical actions at last and to stop creating taboos around the central issues of reform.
We are calling for quantified and quantifiable objectives with well-defined time-scales and evaluation procedures.
We are calling for an end to ruinous European fiscal dumping, for the harmonisation of tax systems, for moves towards ecological tax reform, and for the European Central Bank to carry out its duty of supporting European economic policy objectives within the framework of price stability.
We are calling for the regulation of the financial markets and for job-creating investment not to be taken into account within the context of the stability pact.
Finally, we wish there to be a debate on the fair distribution of work through reductions in working hours.
Let us move on at last from political poetry to responsible actions!
