Madam President, the purpose of the Commission proposal before us is to create uniform EU provisions for the transport of dangerous goods on inland waterways by means of a framework directive, as we have just heard, and I should like to endorse everything that Mr McMahon has said.
The creation of new uniform EU provisions is necessary, and it would be gratifying if a set of rules could finally be adopted.
Two instruments with limited legal effect have hitherto been used to regulate the transport of dangerous goods by inland waterway.
The first is the Recommendation on the International Transport of Dangerous Goods on Inland Waterways.
This was issued by the UN Economic Commission for Europe and relates only to the transport of dangerous goods between Member States and not to transport within the confines of one country.
As we heard, negotiations are taking place in Geneva at the present time with a view to converting this international recommendation into a formal agreement.
The second instrument, which applies to the most important waterway in Europe, the river on Strasbourg's doorstep, is the Order concerning the Transport of Dangerous Goods on the Rhine, enacted by the Central Commission for the Navigation of the Rhine.
Progress towards greater uniformity involves selecting one of three options.
The first option would be for us to adopt the Commission proposal as it stands, with all its shortcomings.
This is not a satisfactory option.
The second option would be to hold the Commission proposal in abeyance until the end of the negotiations on an international agreement to replace the present recommendation.
The third option, which I have put forward, entails the creation of a transitional arrangement.
This is how it would work: during the period until the entry into force of the international agreement, progress must be made in the EU on the harmonisation of national legislation, because the international agreement cannot be expected to enter into force for the next three years - and that is a very conservative estimate.
The harmonisation basis used in the EU framework directive would be the annexes to the Rhine Order with its high technical quality.
These are already the reference basis for the currently applicable legislation in several EU Member States.
Once the new international agreement has entered into force, the Commission will submit a new draft directive to us.
The transitional period would have a number of advantages, one of them being that it overcomes the situation in which two sets of rules apply concurrently, namely the international recommendation and the Rhine Order, thereby eliminating the need for skippers to carry two certificates - a Rhine certificate and a Community certificate.
The transitional arrangement is a means of fully coordinating the two existing sets of regulatory instruments, which is why I ask for your support for the report and the amendments, which were adopted unanimously by the Committee on Transport and Tourism.
