Mr President, our group was pleased with the Commission's proposal but even more so with Mrs RothBehrendt's extremely high-quality and courageous report, because it is likely to be the only one to draw the logical conclusions from the BSE scandal.
This makes it all the more regrettable that the majority of Members of the European Parliament will not endorse the rapporteur's views and that they, and especially the large political groups, are allowing themselves to be misled by the industry.
I simply cannot understand the arguments which have just been put forward about the financial risk to undertakings.
If agriculture says it wants to be regarded as a form of undertaking, it must behave accordingly!
Surely the point here with regard to liability is to create an instrument to ensure that industry and agriculture finally live up to their own responsibilities.
After all, we must not create indirect subsidies here by exempting these undertakings from the obligation.
Surely the principle of a constitutional state is that the potential victims - who are the consumers - are better protected than the potential offenders, who are after all the industry!
When we talk about strict liability, that should have meant no longer allowing any excuses.
It should have meant protection for the consumer.
What is being planned now waters down the report.
However, it is still better than the current practice, which is why we shall endorse it with a heavy heart, but it is not an improvement for the consumer.
On the contrary, it means that in future lawyers will be able to line their pockets nicely, which is why I think it is such a pity that we cannot manage finally to carry forward what we keep calling for, namely consumer protection and the preventive principle, together with the acceptance of responsibility on the part of the industry which is also constantly being called for.
Let me once again warmly congratulate the rapporteur, who has made a truly great effort, but I find the compromise amendments very watered down.
It is a pity that we as the European Parliament will not succeed here in really putting consumer protection first.
I think that would have been the least that we in Parliament could have tried to do.
Mrs Grossetête and Mr Olsson, we cannot just keep representing the interests of the industry.
We should have tried - and I hope you will realise this by tomorrow's vote - really to put consumer protection and the potential victims first.
