Madam President, what is the cause of everyday racism, of the widespread xenophobia that is sometimes concealed and sometimes openly flaunted?
Is it the cut-throat competition for jobs, is it particular hotbeds of crime, is it dangerous residential environments?
Why do so many people turn a blind eye when attacks take place?
Why do so many tolerate acts of racial violence by gangs?
My speaking time does not allow me to give precise answers, but I do think the Member States would do well to analyse the symptoms, and so would we in Europe.
Under Article K.1 of the Treaty on European Union, as amended by the Treaty of Amsterdam, the prevention and suppression of racism and xenophobia fall within the competence of the EU.
In the Commission's plan of action, which the PPE Group endorses, as Arie Oostlander's excellent report made clear, discrimination based on race, origin and creed is to be combated more effectively by means of practicable measures.
Pilot projects are to be supported, new networks created and better links established between existing networks, with the proviso that the affected groups must be actively involved.
The Commission should draw up a proposal for a directive against racial discrimination.
One of the articles in the directive should be entirely devoted to the area of social policy and employment, because the effects of racist thinking are felt at the workplace too, as Sue Waddington explains in her persuasive opinion, which the PPE members in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs were able to endorse.
Attempts to integrate ethnic minorities into the labour market have met with varying degrees of success.
In their national plans of action, some Member States propose support measures, while in others even freedom of movement is restricted.
To my mind, there are three important requirements.
Firstly, young people in schools, but young workers too, should be encouraged to assume responsibilities in the fight against xenophobia.
Secondly, an anti-discriminatory code of conduct for workplaces should be drawn up together with management and labour.
We can contribute a great many of our own experiences from the Member States.
Thirdly, we should make every effort to ensure that the initiatives implemented in the framework of the European Social Fund, including ADAPT and NOW, YOUTH, START and URBAN, as well as parts of our EU programmes Leonardo da Vinci, Youth for Europe and Socrates, can be pooled in such a way that they can contribute effectively to the necessary fight against racism.
