I can tell you quite honestly that I have never in my life - and I have been in politics a long time, I became a member of my government in 1972 - thought that any Member of Parliament was stupid.
That is something I would like to make very clear.
I very much respect Parliament, and as the President of the Commission I very much respect this House, and that is why I absolutely refuse to let anyone say or imply such things about me.
Mr President, I spoke in German so that there was no need to translate.
I must say that I myself have never criticised the operation of UCLAF.
On the contrary, it was when I became President of the Commission in January 1995 that UCLAF was launched, and thanks to the cooperation with Parliament we have constantly improved its operation.
In 1997 we decided to establish a task force to assist UCLAF in its duties.
I have never accused UCLAF of using Stasi-like methods.
Anyone making such claims must show me the proof.
I have great respect for the difficult work carried out by the Commission officials and I must say that, if certain investigations have been discussed within Parliament and also in the press, then this is because, thanks to UCLAF, certain incidents of fraud have been detected, dating back to before the present Commission.
It is therefore due to the activities of our own departments that we are now in this situation which certain MEPs are criticising.
There is a saying in my local dialect which I will say in German because you speak German and will therefore understand it better: 'Gutheit ist ein Stück von Dummheit'.
In other words, we are sometimes too efficient for our own good.
This is perhaps what has happened with us.
We have to some extent become victims of our own initiatives.
This is why you must read our proposals, whose broad outlines the Council has approved and whose direction the Heads of State and Government have deemed reasonable, with a clear and independent mind and without accusing us of crimes based on assumptions rather than facts.
So please reserve making a judgment, which must be calm and unprejudiced, until you have studied the Commission's communication in detail.
