Mr President, the rapporteur is right to highlight in his report the importance of information and communication in the context of introducing the euro.
It was the European Parliament that, very early on, pointed out the lack of information on the euro and fortunately found in the European Commission a partner to organise cooperation between the European Commission, the European Parliament and the Member States of the Union.
As always, I regret that information in the Member States and also in the regions and local communities is not as highly developed as it should be.
We have discovered that many people in the European Union do not feel involved.
They feel that they are not properly informed and that the information they have is not broad enough.
They do not feel that they are sufficiently well informed about the pros and cons of monetary union.
Yet monetary union begins in only 17 days.
We in the European Parliament must therefore ensure that this work on information continues, as the rapporteur rightly emphasised.
It must continue in particular in the next year when we will be living in the European monetary union but only cashless payments will be handled in euros.
Do you know that many people believe that euro coins and notes will be available to them from 4 January?
Do you know how frustrating this will be?
Do you know how difficult it is to adjust to a different currency?
All these issues concern us particularly as Members of this European Parliament.
We must therefore continue to insist on conferences on the subject of the euro, on discussions and on reliable information booklets.
But we must also ensure that we include the NGOs, consumer protection associations, youth organisations and women's associations, so that they can help to persuade people in these areas.
I believe that with the help of such efforts over and above the report, a great deal more can be done and that the genuinely positive approaches of the information and communication work on the euro can and must therefore be extended.
It is true that we must also consider the problem groups in our society, the disadvantaged sections of the information society, and it would therefore be helpful if the Commission could tell Parliament today that it intends to make 10 % of the resources available for these disadvantaged groups and that in addition to the initial projects it has a new strategy to genuinely include everyone.
We have also shown that we are concerned not only about handicapped persons but also about people who live in remoter regions, who do not have much opportunity to travel, and also about illiterate people, for example.
We therefore need a more substantial contribution and also a greater commitment from the Member States.
So I call on the Ministers of Finance and in particular the Ministers of Education in the European Union to ensure that the euro is taught about in schools and in adult education, and to provide the necessary resources for this.
We must involve young people and older people, so that they know that European monetary union is in their interest.
We cannot leave it to the private sector to take full responsibility for information on the euro.
The public sector must take on the leading role which we wanted it to have in the regions and in the Member States too.
