Mr President, a disaster on this scale calls for reactions going far beyond those of the past.
Thousands of people have died or lost everything, in part also because no precautions were taken as the hurricane roared towards them, because the poorest people have to live in the unsafest areas, because whole swathes of land were deforested for industrial agriculture.
Central America has been devastated; it will take decades to reconstruct.
But if this reconstruction is to work, these countries do not just need effective handouts of aid packages.
They need a far-sighted reconstruction plan to be drawn up, not a patchwork of gift packages which, as we have seen in the past, seep away into dubious or government-chosen channels.
Well-coordinated reconstruction must be aimed primarily at improving the condition of the population.
Top priority must be given to health, education and housing, as well as far-reaching agricultural reform.
The people concerned must have a say and a right of control here.
Central America needs total, bilateral debt cancellation.
France is setting a good example here.
The other EU countries should follow suit as quickly as possible.
But it is not just a question of writing off debts that can in any case no longer be recovered.
The multilateral debts must also be cancelled.
The IMF and the World Bank will help out with loans, but these must not be tied to structural adjustment measures.
The European governments should therefore make real use of their influence at the IMF and the World Bank to make sure the loans are not conditional.
According to today's 'Guardian', the prospects for Chiquita are rosy.
The banana multinationals will make the insurance companies pay for the reconstruction of their plant, while their workers are left on the streets.
The multinationals, for instance those in Honduras that have not paid taxes for years, are trying to evade their responsibility.
The devastation caused by a hurricane is not just the result of a force of nature descending on mankind.
The destruction of the ozone layer, the thoughtless wastage of natural resources and the reckless poisoning of the environment play their part in the disaster.
And this will not be the last one, unless the industrialised countries engage in a process of radical rethinking.
