Mr President, Commissioner Fischler, ladies and gentlemen, as a Member of the Committee on Budgets, I welcome the decision reached by the European Court of Justice and the Commission.
Since the earliest days of European integration, the European Court of Justice has always played an important role.
It has protected Community law and developed it further.
It has made many far-reaching decisions.
On 12 May, the European Court of Justice decided on the basis of complaints from several Member States, especially the UK, and I think this is worthy of note, that two things are required to release funds from the EU budget: the first is financing with commitment and payment appropriations, and the second is an adequate legal base.
As a result, the Commission stopped all payments that did not correspond to these criteria, and I think it was absolutely right to do so.
The Commission blocked 100 budget lines, in the region of 920 million euros, in order to examine their legal bases.
56 lines, that is EUR 390 million, were fully released, 19 lines, or EUR 170 m, were partly released, and some 16 lines, or EUR 340 m, were in the pipeline, that is to say they had been approved by Parliament.
NGO projects in the areas of family, children, the elderly and especially culture were particularly affected.
My congratulations go to the Austrian Council Presidency first of all, and also to the Commission, under whose chairmanship, on 17 July of this year, we managed to reach interinstitutional agreement, release the funds and arrive at a workable decision on the legal bases.
Let us not forget though that the European Parliament, and the Committee on Budgets in particular, has been calling for such a regulation for the past 16 years.
Considering that for 16 years we have concerned ourselves with this essential demand, and now within a few days it is ready to be implemented, you can see how much of a contribution the Court's decision has made to placing the arrangements - and ultimately also the decisions - between the institutions on the appropriate legal basis.
After the publication of the judgment and until the compromise was reached, the Commission's position was certainly not a simple one.
Many of the budget lines affected programmes already mentioned, in the fields of culture, education, youth and family.
We in Parliament received many pleas from organisations affected, which of course could no longer be certain that they would receive the money on time.
Therefore, and particularly after today, I am happy to be able to say that most of the appropriations have now been released again.
But the Commission cannot be alone in bearing the consequences of its conduct.
After all, it was only following EU law in complying with a judgment from the highest court in the Union.
And as the Commissioner has just explained to us, the payments were made within 60 days.
I am also of the opinion that the discussion on this, and the quick solution, represent clear progress for the EU.
In parallel to this, there is also a directive on late payment, which deals with the payment period, and I think that will also be good for the Union.
We should not just be an example when it comes to bringing money in, where we are very quick to take action in the form of legal sanctions and harsh instruments, but as the EU we should also be exemplary when it comes to paying out.
We should be a reliable partner and an example for Europe.
