Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to confine my contribution to transport policy and, within that, to the Commission's work programme for 1999.
I should like to say at the very outset that I still clearly remember the time in 1994 and 1995, before this Commission was appointed, when this Commission swore that it would always listen to Parliament.
I should now like to remind you of this by making two points.
I should in fact like to ask you not to proceed with two proposals in the 1999 work programme.
In transport policy, Mr Kinnock, on behalf of the Commission, has proposed tabling a directive on market access for port services.
When I drew up my report on the Green Paper on sea ports, the Committee on Transport and Tourism decided unanimously that there was no need for a legislative initiative of this kind at the present time.
Should there be any difficulties, the Commission is kindly requested to use its powers in the field of aid and competition rules to improve market access.
But we certainly do not want you to initiate legislation.
Secondly, the Commission is proposing to produce a white paper on trans-European transport networks.
Mr Santer, we do not need one!
We do not need a new general basis for our discussion; instead, we need a specific proposal to amend the 1996 guidelines adopted by Parliament and the Council, as it says in Article 21.
This states that there shall be a revised proposal in 1999, not a white paper.
Given the forthcoming parliamentary elections and the reappointment of the Commission, I can understand the desire not to table a new proposal on trans-European networks.
But nor do we need to have Parliament working on a superfluous white paper.
Instead, you should say that you will propose specific legislation in the year 2000.
Perhaps you could have a word with Mr Kinnock, because if both houses - the Council and Parliament - do not even want a bill, then why should the Commission draft one?
You can save yourself a lot of time if you listen to Parliament first!
