Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, if the situation were not so tragic, the situation in Kosovo not so dreadful, then people would actually see an amusing side to the debate we are having in the plenary today.
If you recall the debate we held on Kosovo in this plenary a month ago, it really is hard to imagine that the great thinkers on foreign policy in the Socialist Group - Messrs Titley, Wiersma and Swoboda - were not able to foresee at the time what was actually going to happen in this country.
At that time, we knew exactly what was going to happen.
So, what has happened over the last month?
What has changed?
The whole situation has deteriorated significantly, as what we had already observed, in the countries where Milosevic had behaved in the selfsame way in the past, had indicated it would.
I also have to say that I am astounded to see everyone waiting today, as they did yesterday, for a possible United Nations resolution to bring about some kind of miracle.
In this respect, it increasingly seems to me that anything in which the United Nations has a hand comes to nothing.
Surely we cannot expect countries such as Russia and China suddenly to change their position, their opinion, on a situation, which closely resembles that in parts of their own countries, and which is dealt with in exactly the same way there, as we are seeing in Serbia and Kosovo at the present time.
By way of an example, I recall what we saw in Russia during the war in Chechnya; that was a very similar situation.
And we see China treating its colonies in much the same way.
We cannot expect these countries to have a sudden change of heart, and so we cannot wait for a miracle from the United Nations.
Madam President-in-Office, you rightly said that our patience is running out.
It has to be said, I believe, that our patience actually ought to have run out some time ago.
We see what is coming; we see what is happening here, and it is unacceptable.
There are only a few possible solutions - I have to grant you that, Mr Swoboda: he gave a very accurate picture of the military option and its implications.
But I believe that first of all, we must repeat that one of the political solutions, which must be at the very top of the list, is that Mr Milosevic come to The Hague and that negotiations be held, not with him, but about him.
