Mr President, Mr Mendiluce Pereiro, let me respond as follows.
It is certainly not the case that the European Union is absent here.
I am intentionally highlighting this point, because it allows me to say something in the debate.
During the last General Assembly, I myself addressed this question in talks with the UN Secretary-General, whom I in fact know very well from my earlier post at the United Nations, and I also urged that the United Nations, the Secretary-General and, where appropriate, the special envoy James Baker should take joint action.
Unfortunately, I have to say that the time was not yet ripe.
But you know that the Secretary-General himself has recently visited the region - at the time he considered that more useful, and we were happy to endorse his view, since after all we want to see some positive developments in the situation - and held detailed talks with the conflicting parties.
His report on that visit is now available and yesterday, on 15 December, it was debated in the Security Council.
This procedure was entirely expected, given that of course the United Nations has overall responsibility for the proposed referendum; now the European Union will contact Kofi Annan again in order to discuss this question in depth with him.
On that occasion, questions such as the usefulness of an EU declaration on the Western Sahara issue and the best possible time for making it will also be discussed.
Let me also say that after the identification process had come to a standstill some time ago because of the Moroccan-Sahrawi disagreement on the identification of tribes H41, H61 and J51 and J52 - who make up about 65 000 individuals - the UN Secretary-General put forward a compromise proposal, a kind of package.
The Polisario, Algeria and Mauritania accepted the package, while Morocco initially questioned it.
In a letter and a memorandum addressed to the UN Secretary-General on 20 November this year, Morocco raised a number of questions on which it asked for clarification.
In a further letter of 15 December this year, Morocco expressed its opposition to regarding these 65 000 candidates as candidates in a second list.
But Morocco has not yet formally replied to the UN Secretary-General's compromise proposal.
The extension of the MINURSO mandate to the end of January 1999 which the Secretary-General has now proposed is to be used for UN consultations with Morocco.
However, the prospects of success seem fairly slight, and let me quote verbatim from a United Nations report we have just received: '...unless Morocco gets what it wants'.
There is no sensible reason to wait until end of January for the personal envoy, James Baker, and the Secretary-General to intervene again.
And I believe that James Baker must clearly intervene on this issue again.
That is my answer, Mr President.
