Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for the five year statistical programme contains a series of interesting projects.
Implementing these could really provide us with very useful insight.
During the period of the preceding programme, demand for harmonised statistics increased greatly, particular in relation to the convergence criteria.
I consider this to be a very important factor in our decision.
The Commission's demands for statistics that are comparable and of a high quality are, therefore, legitimate and understandable, and should be supported by Parliament.
However, as many speakers have already mentioned, this creates an enormous bureaucratic burden for many small and medium-sized enterprises.
The lesson to be learnt here is obvious.
What appears to be needed urgently is a period of consolidation, a pause for breath.
Priority must be given to this in the new five year programme.
It would also be useful to appoint an ombudsman specifically for issues relating to the statistical burden.
Just two days ago, Parliament decided that the burden placed on companies as a result of the European Central Bank's statistical reporting requirements must be kept to a minimum.
As a monitoring authority with corresponding powers, an ombudsman could ensure that such principles are observed.
He would be a point of contact for those affected, either by being asked to provide disproportionate detail or by quality requirements.
We must not lose sight of what is feasible using statistics and of the burdens associated with them.
For the future and for the current five year programme we need regulation of this kind more urgently than ever before.
We must avoid the risk of endangering the whole statistical system by imposing an unnecessary burden, as without the cooperation of those concerned and of the various companies, it is not possible to compile high quality statistics.
Therefore, it should be a goal for all of us to convince the companies.
They must come to have confidence in the fact that they will only be asked to do what is absolutely necessary.
We should consider putting this on a voluntary basis and setting up a system of incentives instead of penalties and threats.
We should also consider how we can advance automation and avoid duplication of information collected.
Possible methods include sampling, market research, opinion research; I believe it pays to consider how we can obtain statistics more quickly and more efficiently.
