Mr President, Commissioner, Mr Mulder has drafted a very good report on quality policy for agricultural products and agri-foodstuffs.
The consumer still finds it very difficult to identify many of the regional quality marks in the single market, which is why we should really all welcome the proposed supplementary European rules.
The European consumer is attaching increasing importance to the protection of the environment and animal life.
As representative of a large women's association, I still seriously question whether double labelling - i.e. a regional and a European quality mark - really will persuade people to pay higher prices for foods produced under more stringent rules.
In my experience, the public is prepared to pay higher prices for clothes, housing, cars and travel than for actual food.
But the double label does not necessarily have to raise prices.
As many previous speakers have said, we need a European code of good agricultural practice in integrated farming to put before the Americans at the WTO negotiations as a European agricultural model.
But we still have to explain to our citizens that if we want better environmental protection, better animal protection, then logically we must also be prepared to pay a reasonable price for goods produced under these more stringent conditions.
By establishing a European quality mark we now want to help consumers in the single market to recognise other Member States' national and regional quality marks too, since they say something about the special quality of this food.
In that way, a Spanish housewife looking at German products with a quality mark she does not recognise can be quite sure that this food complies with strict and transparent requirements.
Recognised European quality marks should satisfy very specific basic requirements, and I think that thanks to Mr Mulder's report we will be able to open up an even larger market for these products.
At present we have two European quality categories for agricultural produce: organic farming and the Community protection of traditional specialities.
We in Parliament would like to add a third category covering organic products that also comply with environmental and animal protection criteria.
That would satisfy the consumers' demand for environment-friendly products and give added importance to integrated production, something that has been widely discussed but in my view not yet clearly defined.
