Mr President, I would firstly like to extend my warmest congratulations to Mrs Graenitz on her report.
Things were not easy for her, nor did she make them easy for herself.
The result is nevertheless a very important one.
I think it would have been easy for Mrs Graenitz and also for myself, as Austrians, to present a very different report.
But we as Austrians are having to learn the hard way in the European Union that things do not always go the way we want.
We have southern neighbours who simply cannot yet appreciate this.
It is very clear that one of the great successes of the Montreal Protocol has been that the rate of depletion of the ozone layer has decreased in recent years.
I would like to make it clear that the ozone hole itself has not been reduced, but the rate of depletion has decreased.
The present report recognises the problem of depletion of the ozone layer and is therefore very clearly in favour of halting the production and use of the substances that cause it.
We all know what these substances cause, for example skin cancer and eye damage.
But they also affect all natural ecosystems.
Therefore the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection is trying to find a consensus that is as broad as possible while at the same time taking account of particular interests in this very important issue.
For this reason I have tried to play my part in reaching a compromise with my colleagues from the southern Member States on the use of methyl bromide in agriculture.
It is certainly not a concern for Austria.
We do not need it at all, no-one needs it at all, but there are simply some countries that have a particular climate and believe that because of their special situation they have no alternative.
I believe that the European Parliament is helping to ensure that absolutely essential environmental protection rules are implemented as quickly as possible.
We all know that there is a tendency here and everywhere else to water down legislation, and we must fight against this.
However, I would like today also to thank my colleagues from the southern Member States for their cooperation; it was quite interesting to see that amendments came from Italian members of several different parties, from my group and from Mrs Graenitz's group.
There is certainly a problem here concerning land.
As Members of the European Parliament, as those responsible for ensuring a thriving environment, it is our duty to prevent damage being done to the essential foundations of life, and at least in future to reduce or prevent mistakes that we have certainly made in the past.
