Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Murphy's very good report is much more far-reaching that the title of the dossier suggests.
This is no longer just about vehicles used for the carriage of passengers comprising more than eight seats.
In presenting these amendments by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, we are signalling the beginning of a new era in technical legislation.
Until now, proposals have been settled down to the last detail.
I should simply like to show you the proposals here, so that you can see what huge proportions the technical legislation - just for buses with more than eight seats - has assumed.
The legislator then has to decide whether the height of the step for boarding a bus should be 240, 260 or 280 mm.
This, however, can and should no longer be the task of this House and its Members.
We are more responsible for laying down the political guidelines and basic principles.
A bus has to be safe, stable and accessible to people with reduced mobility.
Any more detailed provisions must be agreed - on the basis of these principles - by those whom they actually affect: manufacturers, operators and users, especially elderly and disabled people.
In this regard, I should particularly like to thank Mr Murphy for placing special emphasis on this aspect.
That is why we are proposing that a permanent working party be set up to perform these tasks.
It should firstly, for practical reasons, rely heavily on the regulations which already exist in the context of the UN Economic Commission for Europe.
Secondly, European standardisation bodies will be involved, and they have accumulated a wealth of experience with this type of legislation.
Until agreement is reached on the individual issues, however, an alternative way of guaranteeing the free movement of goods and the proper functioning of the internal market will have to be found.
That is why the subsidiary principle of mutual recognition applies.
Once a bus is authorised for use in one Member State, it can be authorised for use throughout Europe.
That also ensures that the arrangements are sufficiently flexible and geared towards customers.
The demands placed on a bus in Sicily are completely different from those placed on a bus in the north of Finland, or in a large city such as London, or in a small town such as Oberplattling in Bavaria.
I believe that we need to give the market this freedom, so that customers can say what they want, and so that manufacturers - once they have learnt this - can offer what their customers wish to have.
