Mr President, the situation four years ago was as follows: at the summit in Essen we agreed a broad strategy to combat unemployment more effectively at European level by strictly observing the principle of subsidiarity.
The situation one year ago was that we agreed guidelines at the Luxembourg Employment Summit to guarantee a high level of employment.
The situation today is that we are publicly assessing what has and has not been achieved in the National Action Plans.
There are gaps in particular in terms of training; not enough training is provided, not enough older workers are involved in training, training courses are not sufficiently adapted to new technologies and education systems often fail to provide practical experience, team work and knowledge of other countries.
Employability, the first pillar of the NAPs, is therefore difficult to achieve.
Much too little importance is placed on the fourth pillar: equal opportunities.
Commissioner, where child care is not provided, in the form of creches, nursery schools and day care centres, it is mainly women who are denied access to a career.
But there are also encouraging developments: more and more Member States, for example Germany, are managing to adapt to changed employment structures.
Conditions for entrepreneurship are being improved and passive employment policies are finally being replaced by active policies.
We must now institutionalise dialogue between the Ecofin Council, the ECB, those responsible for social policy, the social partners, the Council, the Commission and the European Parliament in order to better coordinate economic and monetary policy, including the indispensable Stability Pact, with employment policy.
The forthcoming summit in Vienna should set the right course instead of arousing false hopes such as the supposedly comprehensive investment programme worth billions that the Member States will not in any case finance.
With a realistic approach there is a good chance that even those affected by unemployment and exclusion will feel that Europe is overcoming obstacles and inaction, is capable of coordination and can provide important impetus and new ideas.
