Mr President, Commissioner, the directive we discussed earlier refers once again to the voluntary undertaking by the automobile industry to reduce CO2 emissions by technical measures.
What we are now discussing has more to do with a change in consumer behaviour, in other words additional measures.
I also consider it to be only right that we should aim to achieve this by means of information rather than legislation, because after all we do not want to dictate people's needs; we want to provide information so that people can decide for themselves.
I find it very exciting to think that in car manufacturers' showrooms we will see large signs on the cars that no longer say how much horsepower a car has or what speed it does or other attractions, but that say that one car's fuel consumption is 3 litres and that of another the same size is 15 litres, perhaps signs on a strong background, yellow, black, red or green - I do not wish to determine that, as colours are not the concern of politics - but on a striking background, and then the buyer will surely react differently.
I believe that, as the rapporteur has already mentioned, more information should of course be provided in order to ensure honesty, because the test cycle, which unfortunately does not exist yet for light commercial vehicles, does not take into account any extra equipment such as air conditioning or pre-heating systems, which may increase fuel consumption by as much as 20 %.
I believe that the consumer should be told about this honestly, not in detail but in the form of a note to the effect that, if something like this is included, consumption will increase accordingly.
I also think that, in order to make things a little more transparent, we should authorise and demand that more information should be available on this issue via the Internet, so that a consumer who wants to buy a new car can find out simply by sitting at his PC at home that a certain car with extra equipment has a certain level of fuel consumption, and from this he will know the level of CO2 emissions.
It should also be possible to see the fuel consumption of a specific model in the showroom.
This is also quite important, as the third pillar of the strategy is still tax measures to promote cars with low fuel consumption.
To this extent, the consumer should also know exactly how much fuel a car consumes and what tax advantages he might gain from it.
In this respect, I welcome the rapporteur's amendment, and I fully support it in order to achieve a little more transparency for the consumer.
