Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr van Velzen's excellent report, which the PSE Group supports, is rightly based on lasting, sustainable strategies to combat mass unemployment, but also on innovative adjustment of the employment guidelines.
Of particular importance are the structural elements for the promotion of structural reform of the labour market, the need to bring about a better balance among the four pillars of the employment guidelines and the emphasis on gender mainstreaming.
At the same time, however, the totally inadequate employment recovery must be regarded as a challenge for the Union and the Member States to achieve a better and more balanced policy mix and to improve coordination of economic, financial and employment policies.
As we are now only a few weeks away from the beginning of monetary union it is high time to integrate guidelines for economic policy and for employment so that the accent can deliberately be put on effectiveness in creating employment as a condition for policy coordination, in good time for the national budget debates.
The European Parliament must at long last be involved in an interinstitutional agreement on this issue.
The parties to the collective agreement are also called upon, in view of monetary union, to begin to harmonise productivity-based wage agreements in order to avoid the risk of wage dumping that would adversely affect the Community.
Once again, calls are being made for a review of the basic elements of economic policy and for proper coordination of economic policy.
The European Union cannot afford to sit back, despite the Commission's favourable autumn forecast.
Even the lack of currency fluctuation that has been caused by the prospect of the euro should not induce us to sit back.
Today we are already seeing the effects of the crisis in South-East Asia on European jobs.
The chemical, engineering and electronics sectors are already hit by reduced orders and falling prices.
This is affecting European jobs.
Supply-side measures alone are not sufficient.
Demand must also be stimulated by increasing the purchasing power of consumers and fostering greater trust in the future of the European Union.
In this respect, the van Velzen report is right to emphasise changing the system by means of implementing tax reforms and reducing taxation on labour.
But we also need a reform of wage structures that takes productivity into account, as well as stimulation of investment as an important means of stabilising the European economy.
As current investment levels are much too low - public investment is currently barely 2 % of GDP - growth and employment cannot be achieved.
Structural change in the labour market must be supported by a new prospect of growth.
Alliances for work could successfully accompany this process.
We still lack Europe-wide modernisation offensives with investment plans in the areas of communications, transport, the environment, energy conservation, research, development, innovation and training.
Here we must speedily draw up an indicative list that allows a combination of public and private investment.
In the spirit of the Maastricht Treaty the EU Ministers for Finance are called upon to separate this kind of investment from the general government deficit, as long as the EU is still caught between mass unemployment and the Stability Pact.
