Mr President, Mrs García Arias, may I say that we certainly are concerning ourselves with this conflict.
I would like to read out the figures on the humanitarian aid that has already been provided for the Sahrawi refugees, because that needs saying too: on 1 March 1998, ECHO released another ECU 7.2 million, and on 2 October of the same year ECU 10 million.
These two sums are earmarked primarily for food aid, medical and health care and for improving the water supply in the refugee camps in the Tindof region of Algeria.
There, a total of 150 000 refugees are entirely dependent on international aid.
Because the planned referendum was postponed, ECHO has not taken any decisions yet on support for the efforts to secure the return of the refugees, although of course plans to that effect have long since been prepared and ECHO has also contacted the UNHCR on the subject, through its representative on the ground, with a view to coordinating further measures.
As I have said, we ourselves have a number of bilateral projects that we have been carrying out there for many years.
The second point I wished to make is that my country, the country holding the presidency, now has a force of 260 soldiers standing by for deployment in the Tindof region in the run-up to the referendum, in order to prepare for the referendum there and then, of course, ensure a smooth transition.
So we have these troops waiting - which of course costs a fortune - and we will have to keep them on stand-by.
However, and I come now to the third point you addressed, we already have an American mediator, appointed by the United Nations, and I must say that James Baker has achieved something positive in managing to create the preconditions for Morocco's agreement to this referendum.
So however much I am in favour of us Europeans playing a global political role, something we always advocate, I do not believe it is useful for us to intervene in questions where good mediators already exist, because any duplication here would mean different personalities being involved.
I do not think that is very useful in terms of resolving the issue in question.
That is what I wanted to say.
One final comment: I am of course responsible for development cooperation, and at the most recent Development Cooperation Council I myself raised for the first time the question of conflict-prevention in general as also being a development issue, and at that Council we were able to adopt conclusions to that effect for the first time.
I believe that the initial development aid which we give, the many years of work, can be brought to nothing the moment a conflict breaks out.
So in principle I quite agree with you, but in cases where good mediators already exist - and I believe that James Baker was a good choice of personality and has achieved a great deal, which is also appreciated by the conflicting parties - we should primarily play a supportive role, which is what we are doing.
