Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I think we can assume, Mr President-in-Office, that we all endorse your call for a European social market economy model.
We also endorse your belief in a European Union that is more than merely an internal market and a common European currency.
It needs a new European injection of energy.
In particular, the European Union needs to achieve credibility among its citizens.
On behalf of my group, I am very grateful to you for defining the Pörtschach objectives.
The Members of this Parliament were not always sure what this summit would be about.
They knew what it would not be about.
It will not be able to take any decisions, or to anticipate any institutional reforms, but it can define guidelines for the Vienna summit and of course also set signals, signals designed to make the European Union more credible.
At least that is what I hope.
There is a chance - and here of course we are dying to know what will happen - that you will receive the newly elected German chancellor in Pörtschach.
You have invited him, and of course we expect him to give us full details of his economic policy targets, of the aims towards which he will steer the most important and strongest European Union economy.
You have therefore invited Mr Schröder, and looking at recent events one might almost think it would have been a good idea to invite the super-minister, Oskar Lafontaine, because nobody is quite sure who will actually have the final say on Bonn's economic policy, Gerhard Schröder or Oskar Lafontaine.
What interests our people here is, of course, the credibility of this economic policy, in particular the credibility of the European currency, to which you have also given priority.
At the Pörtschach summit we must ask - and I expect you to do this - what the new Bonn government's views are on the independence of the European Central Bank.
Is it tempted to try to influence it from within?
What does it think about easing the burden on the economy by easing the burden on the small and medium-sized enterprises that pay the highest taxes and can create most jobs?
After all, Mr President-in-Office, we have to accept that the short-term economic forecasts have been revised worldwide.
Europe is still in a good position here.
The euro has already proved to be a bulwark against financial turbulence.
But we must strengthen the people's trust in the euro.
Unless Pörtschach clearly supports sustainable stability, an independent European Central Bank and a careful budgetary policy, rather than confining itself to the aim of speaking with one voice on the euro at the WTO and other international bodies, then I fear our citizens might under certain circumstances have less confidence in this common currency, or even lose it entirely.
We must also give the European Union credibility with regard to security.
The people need to feel secure.
They need to feel secure against international crime, against uncontrolled migration.
The incorporation of visa, asylum and immigration policy into Community law provided for in the Amsterdam Treaty is a step in the right direction.
But more needs to be done.
We must coordinate our criminal justice systems more closely, even prior to ratification of the Amsterdam Treaty.
We must also regard the process of enlarging the European Union as a factor of security policy.
As you said, the beginning of practical negotiations on seven chapters under the Austrian Presidency of the Council is also a positive signal.
Mr President, we would be pleased if the Pörtschach summit also adopted a declaration on the objective of the enlargement process, namely to enlarge the area of freedom, security and the law in order to consolidate Europe from within.
This is an extremely important project, in view of the situation in Russia.
If we focus clearly on this objective of exporting security, our citizens will find it easier to identify with the process of enlargement.
The people of Europe, whom we represent here in Parliament, will also find it easier to identify with a common foreign and security policy.
The evidence of the European Union's impotence in the Balkans and in the Middle East does not exactly enhance the people's confidence in this Union.
But let me warn you against the illusion of believing that the problems can be resolved by appointing a CFSP representative.
This representative would have to be backed by a common political will.
Here I also appeal to you not just to look at this in terms of personnel, but also to look at the content.
After all, the citizen must be able to see that decisions are transparent and sustainable.
The original watchword of the Pörtschach summit, subsidiarity, has been short-changed to some extent, simply because European policy priorities change so quickly.
But the European Parliament has put forward some ideas on the question of subsidiarity.
In particular, as you said, it must not be used as an alibi for renationalisation.
The Council must take better decisions, based more often on a qualified majority.
They must be endorsed by the European Parliament.
The European Parliament must always cooperate with the national parliaments.
And, above all, we must restore the credibility of the EU as a whole and of its institutions.
This is a particularly urgent concern, given the irregularities that have emerged in the Commission and also in Parliament.
I would ask you to give priority to the question of the Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
Let us remember something that Lenin once said, which may seem rather odd for a conservative, Christian Democrat Member, but is still true in this context: confidence is good, control is better!
