Mr President, may I thank President Santer for his words to us.
Allow me, however, to confess to a certain doubt and to express it in the following words: 'I hear the words, but I lack faith'.
In a similar vein, I should like to say to you, 'Help us to believe', so that we can make up these deficits together.
I should like to come back now to the Bösch report on today's agenda and to begin by expressing my thanks and appreciation to Mr Bösch for having overcome a good many difficulties to put the report on the table today.
As is clear from the title and substance of the report, it is based on special report No 8/98 of the Court of Auditors and hence on Article 206 of the Treaty.
Our Committee on Budgetary Control has never subscribed to the misinterpretation of this legal basis.
Such misinterpretations, however, have delayed the presentation of the report to a plenary sitting of Parliament.
This is regrettable because, in view of the revelations of alleged abuses in the European Community Humanitarian Office, a rapid response by Parliament in the form of proposed remedies would have been useful.
The ECHO case has subsequently received exhaustive coverage in the media.
We could certainly have done with quicker and more comprehensive information from the Commission.
Once again, this case illustrates the way in which the EU still has to struggle to win the fight against the misuse of its resources with one hand tied behind its back.
Long-familiar cases, such as the MED, transit and tobacco frauds - I could name more - still await full investigation and prosecutions.
The special report by the Court of Auditors proves that Parliament is right to be dissatisfied with the present structural competence of UCLAF, especially when it comes to internal Commission investigations.
This is not the fault of UCLAF's officials or its excessive reliance on temporary employees, but rather on the unsystematic manner in which it processes its cases.
The Court of Auditors mentions more than 1300 pending cases, not including those opened after April 1997, a point to which Mr Bösch also referred.
An inadequate flow of information and poor coordination are another point.
In the event of suspected corruption within the Commission, the Court of Auditors notes, powers and procedures are not clearly regulated, nor is there even a requirement to inform the prosecuting authorities.
It is to be feared that the introduction of the euro and the enlargement of the EU will create further scope for fraudulent operations.
These are only some of the reasons for the demand that the function, structure and powers of UCLAF be given more incisive and independent shape in the form of a Fraud Prevention Office.
That is what Mr Bösch has put on the table.
Today, however, we are not taking the ultimate step by approving OLAF.
But this Parliament, as a controlling authority, has to do something that will enable us to devise jointly a means of tackling the new challenges that confront us.
For that reason, we are not making a legally based proposal but are marking out the basic shape of our ideas.
We beg the Commission earnestly to take serious note of these markers and to include them in its deliberations.
Otherwise, I fear, we shall have a rather lengthy discussion ahead of us before we find another efficient way to combat fraud.
