Mr President, allow me to add a few words to Mr Kreissl-Dörfler's comments.
He is naturally quite right to cite corruption as one of the causes of the economic instability.
The fact is, of course, that there are some thoroughly corrupt states - one could call them military dictatorships.
Mr Antony just referred to a country that used to be a military dictatorship.
These countries are certainly stable economically.
But there are also some properly governed states that are economically vulnerable.
There are many reasons why this can be so.
We are seeing this situation in Latin America at the moment.
There is a certain psychology that applies to financial markets when they obviously no longer have confidence in the fixed exchange rates of Brazil, for instance.
It leads to a flight of capital, as in Asia and Russia.
That happens for psychological reasons.
It has no economic basis, as Mr Bangemann rightly pointed out.
But there is also one factor over which the states often have no influence at all, namely the fall in raw material prices.
The advantage Europe is currently deriving from cheaper oil is quite simply a disaster for Mexico, Venezuela and other countries.
That has nothing to do with corruption, it is because of the fall in raw material prices, which really should give us food for thought.
How can we also stabilise raw material prices in the long term?
It is also due to the disappearance of Latin America's Asian markets, through no fault of its own.
Furthermore, with the disappearance of the Asian markets and the devalued Asian currencies, Latin American goods are now faced with cheap competition from that region.
That is why I think we must take a very practical approach to this problem.
Looked at in practical terms, that means Brazil must be stabilised at this time.
Brazil is the key economy in Latin America.
Let me refer you to paragraph 9 of our motion for a resolution, in which we call for a special fund - something which has been discussed in the past - supported by the international financial institutions, to help Brazil cope with the present difficult situation.
If Brazil collapses, if Brazil has to devalue, the entire region would be affected.
We would be exactly where we were in the early 1980s, namely confronted with a disastrous situation in which the ordinary people, the people of Latin America, have to pay the price for the inability of the financiers to maintain order in the world.
So I ask you to approve our motion for a resolution and thereby to support all the efforts made by the Commission and the Council and also by others to prop up the Brazilian economy at this time.
That does not excuse them from the homework that needs to be done in these countries, with which we would be happy to assist them.
