Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have good reason today to take stock of the state of the European Union and also to consider the future and how to bring it closer to the citizens, because there is a strong sense of dissatisfaction at large.
In my view, it is not enough to hold big conferences at which the participants merely swap slogans, which may make for good sound bites on television but produce no results.
Mr President-in-Office, I therefore want to establish one thing quite clearly with a view to Pörtschach: the European Union's objectives, timescales and practical projects are all there; what is not there is the courage to take decisions, the courage of the national governments to take decisions.
The problem with the European Union is not the much-discussed Brussels centralism; it is the weakness in decision-making, the poor capacity to resolve problems on the part of the national governments and therefore of the Council.
What I hope Pörtschach will do is give clear political signals on the main problems.
A clear 'yes' to enlargement of the European Union, and under the same conditions we ourselves set in Europe, at a point when the countries concerned are able to fulfil these conditions, even at some political and financial cost.
A clear endorsement of institutional reform, the improvement of our decision-making structures, so that we remain capable of taking decisions, and a clear 'yes' to a common foreign and security policy that is really worthy of the name, in the interest of peace on this continent and in the world.
The focus of power in the European Union lies in the Council, the heads of government and the national governments.
They must act, they must decide, and therein lies the weakness in our present situation.
Hence my appeal to you to shed light on these fundamental weaknesses during your term of the presidency.
We in the European Parliament, the Members and the Commission will gladly help to promote the project of European integration in the interest of all our citizens.
But without doubt it is primarily up to you, up to the national governments to do so.
