Mr President, the Austrian Presidency's task was certainly hampered by outside circumstances.
Nevertheless, I note today that agreement has been reached on the 1999 employment policy guidelines.
The European Investment Bank's interim report on the implementation of the special action programme on employment is also positive.
The Council is, so I hope, about to agree the European company directive.
On the other hand, there is little sign of progress on Agenda 2000.
Here I do not share the optimism of the presidency of the Council.
The proposal by the Austrian Commissioner responsible for agriculture policy, who is now present, is not acceptable as it stands.
For my farmers, who are mainly dairy and meat producers, it means certain doom.
A sensible approach would be national - or in Germany regional - cofinancing for correspondingly high compensatory payments.
The forthcoming German Presidency of the Council can now prove whether it supports the farmers, given that Austria has not resolved this issue.
At the same time, it could defuse the issue of net contributors.
The proposals on Objective 2 structural policy flagrantly disadvantage our rural areas.
That applies in particular to border regions and third countries.
Here too I see no sign of progress, although Austria should be particularly interested in this question.
Under the principle of subsidiarity, we should give regional and local authorities considerably more freedom to allocate national aid money.
Closeness to the people is a crucial European added value.
The more the Union distances itself from the people, the more it endangers itself.
In future, all decisions must take account of this important factor.
The same applies to enlargement.
It is to be welcomed.
But first the applicant countries must make their own contribution.
Transitional periods are necessary for agriculture and the free movement of workers, in the interest of both existing and future Member States.
Unfortunately, the President-in-Office said nothing about that.
But ignoring the problem is no help either.
The European CSU group will therefore be carefully monitoring future developments on these questions under the German Presidency of the Council.
