Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group has tabled this resolution because we believe it is time the European Union took a more active role in the search for a solution to the Trans-Dniestrian conflict.
Many of us are largely unfamiliar with the whole situation in the region to the east of the River Dniester, and we believe it is necessary that the European public should know more about this conflict.
Moldova is linked with us through a partnership and cooperation agreement.
One day Romania will be a member of the European Union, and Moldova will then be our immediate neighbour.
The conflict in the Dniester region has now been continuing for eight years and has received scant public attention.
The conflict centres on the future status of the region of Trans-Dniestria within the Moldovan state.
It is a power struggle, through which some of the protagonists are seeking to consolidate the status quo.
The confrontations are about political and economic power to a great extent.
It is élite groups, rather than the general population, who are locked in this tussle, and even the dispute about whether Russian or Romanian should be the official language in Trans-Dniestria is merely a side issue.
We in the European Union have been asked and are called upon to play a part in the development of a strategy for the solution of this conflict and to assist the OSCE in these intractable disputes.
We cannot turn a blind eye to this conflict; in the coming weeks and months, we must try to find an answer to the outstanding problems within the framework of the partnership and cooperation agreement and at the talks in which the Council is engaged.
At the heart of the matter are the following questions: how can cooperation with the OSCE be most intelligently structured, how can the Russian troop withdrawal be organised, what is the best solution to the problem of dissolving the arms and ammunition depots, what can be done to guarantee fair treatment for the political prisoners, especially Mr Ilie Ilascu and those imprisoned with him, what kinds of peaceful cooperation can be developed between Moldova and the Trans-Dniestrian region, particularly in the economic and social domains, and what financial support can we give to help resolve these issues?
What is far more crucial, however, is that we should learn from the situation in Northern Ireland and from other cases too that it is necessary for the European Union to play its part in establishing a deadline for the resolution of these conflicts.
We know from our own experience that a political conflict can only be properly resolved if a timetable is set.
