Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I speak from experience when I talk about this programme, because we have been working with this Regulation 2078 scheme on my farm since 1993.
So what I tell you here is drawn from practice, and I should also like to deal with a number of areas in which we could perhaps make improvements.
In my own federal state of Baden-Württemberg, this programme has gained wide acceptance, but the level of regional cofinancing is very high at 50 %.
Our regional government is groaning under this burden.
It also maintains, and I can only agree, Mr Fischler, that it has far too little say in the scheme.
Because it bears half the cost and is responsible for inspecting the scheme, it should have a greater say.
I certainly wish to endorse that view.
This is an opportunity to put subsidiarity into practice.
The local authorities used to have more scope to decide how to implement the programme.
The Commission, however, is always imposing new requirements and more red tape, and in particular its new authorisation policy is tending to focus far more sharply on nature conservation and less sharply on the management of poor farmland.
Commissioner, I am sure you will agree with me when I say that the Black Forest and our central German upland farms with their typically high proportion of grassland should be preserved and should not be altered.
You will also agree with me when I say that extensive farming is far cheaper than the management of industrial land.
That is why we should support it.
Farmers participating in the scheme must commit themselves for five years.
Apart from anything else, this will provide a sound planning basis.
In our part of the world, however, there are farmers who have a great many leased fields and have no influence over the fluctuation of these leased fields.
That is why there should be some scope for local adjustments to improve the effectiveness of the scheme.
The farmers in our region fulfil certain prior conditions, which nobody has mentioned.
They refrain from second cuts and from late fertilising, because these restraints really protect the countryside and safeguard groundwater.
Above all, we forego maximum yields, and we hoe our maize.
That costs more, and it means that we dispense with plant protection.
That is what I really call environmentally friendly farming, but it is not taken to extremes.
Let me mention four more points.
Regulation No 2078/92 has proved its worth.
Greater regional flexibility should lead to wider acceptance of the scheme, and its benefits must be recognisable at the local level.
Secondly, the Commission's restrictive authorisation practice tends to neglect the important role of extensive farming as a means of caring for and preserving the agricultural landscape.
Thirdly, in some areas of farming, more flexible rules of application should be devised, with a view to promoting regional adaptations.
Agri-environmental measures should not exclude statutory environmental requirements.
Fourthly - and this is very important, Commissioner - the strict limitation of grant income to 20 % of total earnings, as imposed by Regulation No 746/96, reduces the level of acceptance of some measures.
Greater flexibility would therefore be welcomed.
Thank you very much, Madam President, for your indulgence; I did continue beyond my allotted time, but I just know so much about this matter and want to impart that knowledge, at least to the Commissioner!
