Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, what we are discussing here today is not only the question of the independence of UCLAF but the question of the independent investigation of fraud, corruption, nepotism and mismanagement in the Commission itself.
We are not discussing specific cases such as ECHO, MED, BSE, tourism or the security service, affairs which have accumulated into an almighty crisis among the European institutions.
What we are discussing here today is how the Commission can escape the threat of non-discharge as well as - and this, ladies and gentlemen, is the key issue - the question of political responsibility.
The ECHO case is only a symptom of a deeper malaise.
I should like to emphasise that we are not talking about normal minibudgets.
Falsified contracts, imaginary reports and disappearing documents are apparently regarded by the Commission as high-spirited pranks.
But I have now learned a new expression from you, Mr Santer.
From now on we shall call these things 'administrative acrobatics'.
The bottom line is that this attitude has prevented the adoption of any disciplinary measures.
Anyone who believes, like Mrs Bonino, that it is possible to gloss over the whole thing quietly by simply saying, 'Oh yes, the Commission will naturally assume responsibility' has, if you will forgive my saying so, failed to understand what political responsibility really means.
Responsibility is not just an empty word that can be used at will to terminate a debate and hasten on to the next item.
Responsibility means being prepared to answer for those things for which one is individually accountable.
The ECHO case, I believe, is a prime example.
When Commissioner Marín found out in February 1994 about the illegal practices that were taking place in his sphere of responsibility and was unable, for whatever good reason, to put an immediate stop to it, who but he should have accepted responsibility for it and therefore tendered his resignation?
The collegiate nature of his institution does not enter into the equation.
This, Mr Santer, comes right back to you.
What does the President of the Commission do in such a case?
Regrettably, you have kept silent thus far.
The people of Europe must see responsibility being borne; that applies to ECHO and to all other cases.
If there are no consequences other than the punishment of the actual fraudsters - and I am certainly capable of distinguishing between frauds and irregularities - that would only enshrine the principle of the end justifying the means.
That, however, is untenable, not only in this case, in which, after all, aid funds amounting to ECU 2.4 million were misappropriated - not embezzled in the legal sense, but nevertheless channelled into other directions.
What is far worse is that it discredits all the good work done by the administration - and the great bulk of their work, I may say, is good.
That, Mr Santer, cannot be what you want either.
The Staff Regulations provide for various disciplinary measures, but the powers that be within the Commission are apparently reluctant to apply them.
What exactly has to happen before the flagrant circumvention - that is what Commissioner Van Miert called it - before the flagrant circumvention of rules is punished?
In the talks I have attended, I have even had the impression that people were afraid to take action.
If things have come to that pass, something has to change drastically!
Do you not agree, Mr Santer?
You are accountable for a huge conflict of loyalties among the staff of the Commission.
How many of them long for certain abuses to be rooted out and for some straight talking to be done at long last!
It is time you took action, not least for the sake of your honest and committed employees.
The Commission lives in an ivory tower.
The lack of communication between Parliament and the Commission is primarily due to the fact that our quest for information and supervisory powers is systematically interpreted as distrust, because the principle that good administration must, with few exceptions, be publicly accessible has been inverted by the Commission, at least in those areas in which criticism is voiced and in which Parliament exercises its supervisory powers.
My speaking time is up.
I also intended to speak about the culture of distrust, about the right to apply Article 206 and about the fact that the Commission must expect discharge to be refused if it does not give a clear and appropriate signal.
Those who wish can read the full text of my speech, including you, Mr Santer.
I shall have a copy sent to you shortly.
