Mr President, you can tell how civilised a society is by the way in which it treats its vulnerable members, not its strong ones.
Like so many others with restricted possibilities, the deaf have a distinct energy, they overcome their limitations and their senses are highly developed.
They often look more closely and that is why they are in a better position than most to see things properly.
But participation in technological developments, like text processing devices or videophone technology, and use of multimedia applications and increased communications, have been made more and more difficult for them over the years.
The European Parliament could lead the way by good example, and for instance have a special monitor up there in the gallery to transmit debates to the deaf or hearing-impaired.
We can see how alive sign language is when what is being said and done in a television programme is interpreted on a split screen or in a window placed on the screen.
Though of course this is mostly restricted to information programmes which are banished to the afternoons, when not many people are watching.
What does the Commission think of a quota system with a significantly higher volume of programmes, and how could this be implemented in Member States, Commissioner Fischler?
People who cannot hear are not speechless as a result of this.
That is why the Group of the European People's Party appeals to the Commission to fully recognise sign language as an EU language and to prepare a proposal for a directive along these lines.
The Commissioner has just pointed to some of the difficulties, for instance the different sign languages that have to be considered.
I am very well aware of this but I think that to start with one language would be the most sensible approach that we can take.
That would definitely also contribute to more equality.
And it would also clear the way for us to train more skilled interpreters in sign language and to provide adequate EU funding.
Then we could prove once again that there is a European added value, and minorities, as we call them, must of course also benefit from it.
