Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to thank the Commission as a whole for proposing the much-needed extension of the Socrates programme.
I support the aims that have been mentioned of ensuring the concentration and continuity of aid and accessibility, although I would have liked to see more effective concentration in practice on areas where Europe can genuinely add value.
A fundamental point, however, is that although Socrates and the other youth programmes have now become an essential part of Europe's education policy, they have also become an easy excuse for Member States to avoid doing more themselves to europeanise their schools, universities and educational establishments.
It would therefore be extremely welcome if Parliament and the Council could agree on a much bigger financial package for the programme.
The ECU 2 billion called for by the committee is the absolute minimum as far as my group is concerned.
The Commission's proposal for ECU 1.4 billion spread over five years is not really an increase if you take account of the latest situation as regards expenditure, the extra spending on adult education that is now included, and the additional burden created by opening up the programme to the countries of Central and Eastern Europe.
Nor is it enough if we want to correct the social imbalance in the programmes, as we Social Democrats do.
The shortage of funding for Socrates and the other youth programmes stands in stark contrast to all the fine words spoken about the need for more contact between young people in Europe and the creation of a genuine European education area.
It is simply not on, as we keep complaining, that EU youth exchange schemes should be given less money per year than is paid in agricultural aid for growing peas, field beans and sweet fodder lupins.
People also forget that, in addition to promoting integration, Socrates also does a great deal to promote employment.
All young people should be given the opportunity during their education to experience other countries and to improve their knowledge of foreign languages.
This is all about equality of opportunity.
Instead of the 2 % of students currently taking part in Erasmus, we feel the figure should be nearer 10 %.
And the same should apply to young people in vocational training, less than 1 % of whom currently take part in EU exchange schemes.
From the outset, therefore, my group has called for more funding for the programme, because the individual grants are far too small.
The average paid under Erasmus, for example, is only ECU 70, which is certainly no incentive for young people from socially disadvantaged families to spend periods of study abroad, whereas those that can already afford it receive the grant on top.
There is one area where we would like the programme to be expanded, and I would ask for your support here.
We would like to provide funding under Comenius to encourage the use of young unemployed teachers in neighbouring countries for fixed periods.
This would help to europeanise education and would help young unemployed teachers to get their first break in working life.
