Mr President, the rapporteur has very clearly emphasised the significance of the European aerospace industry as a genuinely important factor in our economic future.
I recall the parliamentary debates on other Commission communications which have repeatedly made the point that the future prospects and competitiveness of the European Union in the industrial sphere, but elsewhere too, are dependent on developments in aerospace.
That, of course, does not absolve us from highlighting and re-examining the specific political issue that arises in connection with the civil and military components of this industry.
The question we really ought to be asking concerns the extent to which the aerospace market is actually organised or whether such organisation is even possible - to what extent, in other words, the subsidisation of the military sector actually leads to the emergence of good competitive products for the civilian market, as is the case in other parts of the world.
If we recall that the European Union still has but a tiny share of the world market, and if we consider that in 1996 the value of aerospace exports just edged over the ECU 15 billion mark, which is equivalent to about 3 % of all EU exports, we cannot fail to realise that aerospace is so important that the European Union, for all its successes, still needs to achieve more in this sector.
Great challenges await the European aerospace industry.
The merit of the Commission's communication and the Hoppenstedt report is that they really do emphasise this point, as well as indicating how fiercely the battle for supremacy is being fought in a global market, especially the market in products designed for civilian use.
The United States is still far and away the major player in the global aerospace market - and I am telling you nothing new here - with a 58 % share.
Moreover, the plain fact is that company structures are different in the USA.
That is nothing new either, and for this reason the demands for an end to the fragmentation of the European aerospace industry that have been reiterated in today's debate can only be supported.
The large number of aerospace companies in a relatively small internal market means that research, production and marketing potential is dissipated, which is not without an influence on the competitiveness of the European Union.
Unlike the American corporations, European producers are scarcely able to cover the increasingly high development and financing risks.
This is one of the reasons why it is important to develop new forms of business cooperation which will ensure, among other things, that economies of scale can be made and that technological and organisational synergy can be produced between the various disciplines within the aerospace industry.
It is therefore essential to make up lost ground rather than falling further behind.
What makes the situation especially critical is that the European aerospace industry possesses great fundamental employment potential and a highly skilled workforce.
Aerospace is one of the top 15 industries, employing more than 370 000 people as well as sustaining thousands of jobs in component manufacturing and in other high-tech areas.
That is why I should like to put it to the Commission that it is high time their industrial working parties and task force began to highlight the employment dimension far more clearly in the papers they produce on industrial policy, including the present one, to emphasise that employees' rights are part and parcel of the ongoing development of any industry and in particular to prescribe the principle of codetermination for key industries such as aerospace.
