Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the debate we have been engaged in for months and, so far as I have followed it, in today's debate too, Members seem less concerned with how to tackle prevention and rehabilitation most effectively than with trying to show that their opinion or the strategy being pursued in their country is better than that in another country.
What does this endless debate teach us?
Firstly, there is no royal road to combating the drugs problem.
At any rate, there is nobody either in the House or outside it who can say: I have found a way to tackle both the prevention and rehabilitation problem.
I do not know anybody who can do that.
Secondly, that means that whatever the different approaches we take to combating drugs, one thing remains certain: that we are helpless and at a loss here because none of the many different attempts that have been made has managed effectively to combat this phenomenon.
We really have to take that on board and then, in my view, we must draw the same conclusion as Mrs d'Ancona.
Basically it goes like this: taking account of the historical background of the various societies in the various countries, taking account of their special cultural features, taking account of the different national structures - because the medical system can differ widely from country to country - we must, to put it in simple terms, obtain results that are country-specific.
I am not suggesting that the Netherlands is doing anything dishonourable, or Sweden either.
There are two opposite poles in the debate and the two countries take very different approaches.
Both have the same problems.
We should respect both approaches because both countries are trying just as hard.
Yet we should also stop pretending there can be any meaning in a debate in which one country tries to convince the other that its approach is the better one.
That is why Mrs d'Ancona endeavoured, after a lengthy debate, to put forward a compromise proposal in which she says: I have my own position - and she has described it better than I could - but within the framework of my position there is room for all sorts of different approaches, each of which should be regarded as of equal value, rather than pretending one is better or worse than another.
I regard that as an excellent means of attempting to reach at least a minimum consensus.
On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I therefore thank Mrs d'Ancona for her report, in which she at least attempts to bring about a consensus, even if it represents the lowest common denominator.
