Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation and convergence are the prevailing slogans of our time.
That is why the Green Paper described the review of the traditional regulatory system in terms of its relevance to the future as the most important challenge.
The Commission launched this discussion in December last year.
It is clear from the huge participation of media representatives, consumer associations and industry in the consultation meeting that was then organised, with 270 contributions and more than 80 000 visitors to the Internet site by July 1998, that there is enormous interest and an enormous need for action in this area.
How should we respond?
Depending on the various interests of the parties concerned, the proposed solutions range from trust in the self-regulatory powers of the free market, through a partial regulation of specific areas, to excluding certain areas of public service.
My position in this discussion is that we are standing at the beginning of a development whose effects we cannot clearly predict, with the best will in the world.
There is certainly no consensus in the forecasts on the future use of digital services.
It is too soon to say anything for sure, because there are still too many unknown variables.
So we must take care not to place too much importance on any one aspect, which could distort the discussion and spoil our future chances on this potential European market.
I wish to congratulate the rapporteur warmly on his first report in this Parliament, in which he has endeavoured to strike a balance between the various demands.
He says to the Commission, and I quote: 'a cautious attitude towards regulating new services should only be introduced where and when it proves necessary for the safeguard of the interests of consumers', adding, 'and if self-regulation by the industry based on these principles appears not to be efficient enough'.
Here I can only agree with the rapporteur.
However, there are some points, though only a few, on which I differ with him.
I think that, at this stage of the discussion, to over-regulate by focusing the debate on the impact of convergence on content could have some adverse effects.
Mr Kuhne, of course I believe in recognising today's evaluation of the importance of public broadcasting, but all the various areas must be included in this discussion, and on an equal footing.
We must create a favourable climate, so that everyone can find their own place in future developments, by which I also mean the future role of public and private broadcasting in this changed environment.
We are still in the first year of the discussion, which will extend over another two or three years with the further measures planned by the Commission.
So at this initial stage, I would urge that we do not block the way to further discussions by laying down rules that are too specific.
We are only at the beginning of our search for the best solutions for all the areas concerned.
