Mr President, Commissioner, if a few chains of shops and unfortunately also the European Commission have their way, the book pricing system is to be abolished.
At present, publishing houses in Austria and in some other countries of the Union have the possibility of selling their products at a fixed minimum price.
This is said to contradict the spirit of the European Treaties because it can lead to cartel-like structures.
This argument is probably right from a purely economic point of view.
In spite of lower prices, so-called best-sellers make a significant turnover for the publishing houses because of the large number of copies published.
Even at a lower price hardly any specialist books would be sold.
Certainly, a book is not a commodity like other household goods and appliances.
Books are part of a country's culture.
Workers' educational associations, municipal libraries, school libraries, book clubs, and so on, have been trying since the last century to motivate people to educate themselves more by reading quality literature.
Many books would not be published if publishing houses could not make a profit with best-sellers, which subsidise the publishers' other products.
The diversity in literature is a sign of intellectual independence.
Just as every residential area needs its local supply of everyday things, the bookshop is part of the local supply of intellectual commodities.
It is the intellectual 'grocer's shop', as we would say in Austria, or in Germany, the 'corner shop' for the mind.
I apologise to the translators for using these peculiar expressions.
Unlike the big stationer's shops, the bookshop also provides services, such as specialist advice or ordering books that are not really among the top sellers.
However, it could not survive without fixed prices, since it cannot buy at such good prices as the big chains of shops, and can therefore only sell at higher prices.
Apart from this, the book pricing system does not involve any obligations.
There are books that come onto the market with no fixed price.
In many cases, a considerably cheaper paperback edition is already available after one year; there are the special-offer book weeks and the second-hand trade in modern books.
There are therefore many opportunities for making fixed prices drop very quickly in reality.
If I hold up a book, such as this book here, then what I have in my hand is, of course, first and foremost a commodity.
However, as soon as I leaf through the book and start reading its contents, then I am no longer using just any household good or appliance, but I am using reading as a means to find out about culture.
This particular one is a book about telecommunications which belongs to my colleague, Mr Rübig, and it is quite heavy going.
I am reading it due to circumstances, but also for enjoyment, to broaden my mind, sometimes it makes me angry as well, of course, but I am reading it to acquire knowledge at any rate.
As long as we regard a book only as a commodity, it is completely justified to curb or abolish fixed prices, no matter whether nationally or internationally.
This would certainly be a very restricted way of looking at things and would not do justice to the true value of books.
The packaging, which represents the true character of a book, is not particularly crucial, but the contents are, and these clearly belong in the field of culture and science.
We do not necessarily, or rather we do not always, buy books because of a pretty picture on the cover, but first and foremost because we would like to read the print.
The diversity of the book market shows that the culture of a country, and of a linguistic area, has developed.
However, in order to have this diversity we also need to have a variety of publishing houses and bookshops.
Not every book becomes a best-seller.
There are books that are aimed only at a specialist audience or a special interest group.
Money cannot be made from a small number of copies.
It must be made from those works which also sell well.
These best-sellers subsidise from within the system the diversity necessary in cultural policy.
If an entrepreneur today manages to sell a square soup dish by means of a very good marketing strategy, and then all manufacturers of round soup dishes have to close down, this will have no effect on culinary diversity.
However, every publishing house that has to close down means a loss of books, books that are then no longer printed because other publishing houses follow different agendas.
Every bookshop that has to close down because it cannot keep up with the cheap goods supplied by a big stationer's shop, is a loss for the region's local supply of intellectual commodities.
Commissioner, you will understand that we are asking you - and I know we are certain of the support of virtually the whole of Parliament - to really take Parliament's observations on this into consideration so that this cultural dimension of our continent is really taken into account.
