Mr President, there is method in madness, but if madness is the only source of our method, a new type of method is needed.
The Bösch report contains sound proposals that should be fully endorsed.
The circumstances surrounding the report were anything other than satisfactory.
The Bösch report has been held up, and what has subsequently hit the headlines has been disastrous.
It is reminiscent of the time of the BSE crisis and of many other problem cases that have been mentioned today.
Documents disappear; the information is not there, and we cannot check anything.
The guilty parties have gone too, either promoted or sent away with a golden handshake.
The responsible Commissioner is no longer there either.
Even today, and I particularly regret this in view of the latest ECHO revelations, neither Commissioner Marín nor Commissioner Bonino is here, and the same thing happened last time for part of the hearing.
Mr President, we welcome your proposals that the ideas put forward by Mr Bösch be further developed.
We believe it is right and important to do that.
Entering into contact with the President of Parliament is a first step, but many more steps must follow, and above all must follow quickly.
We cannot seek protracted or long-term solutions, because we need to send out credible signals now.
You, Mr President, have assumed political responsibility.
When will the two main defendants, Commissioners Marín and Bonino, do likewise?
How quickly will the promised disciplinary law become fully operative?
How long do we really have to wait until each of the relevant documents is available?
I believe there is one thing that really would be a problem, namely if the debate we are holding on this report today were to be shelved until next year when the new Commission is appointed, and we should then have to sanction all the mistakes that have been made during the present five-year term.
And one final word: the fact that the Group of the Party of European Socialists has left its rapporteur out in the cold makes me think and should make us all think.
Would it do the same if the incriminated Commissioners had different affinities?
