Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, I am not as quick as the previous speaker to see progress where there is none.
So let me say this: I see no signs of an all-clear, and I see no change in regard to the misery of Kosovo.
The western politicians have all been taken in by Milosevic again.
What has come of Holbrooke's negotiations?
They should have brought results no sooner or later than in spring this year.
At a time when villages are still being shelled in Kosovo, when people are still being turned into refugees, we are sending 2 000 OSCE observers out there.
What are they supposed to do, what can they do?
After all, they cannot really monitor the promised eventual withdrawal of Serbian forces.
Who could make us believe that?
How can they prove it?
They cannot identify troops that remain there out of uniform.
And the Serbian police units who have been carrying on their murderous business for years remain in the region.
The OSCE observers are unarmed.
We cannot even ensure their protection, let alone that of the Albanians they are observing.
It seems to me that the recruitment of these observers is a very parlous affair.
Who are they?
What are their qualifications?
I checked it up in Germany.
There they are being signed up at a salary of DM 6 000 a month plus USD 100 a day, which comes to DM 10 000 per observer.
Many people are tempted by this kind of thing and set out into the unknown.
I said to many people who questioned me: don't do it.
Does anyone really think the NATO planes flying over Kosovo offer any protection whatsoever?
It is another of those damned déja vu situations.
Remember what happened to the UN soldiers in Bosnia and Herzegovina, who were at least armed for their own protection - while the OSCE observers are not armed, not even for their own protection.
But let us assume this observer mission runs smoothly, as I described, and of course without producing results, as we all now know.
Elections have been promised nine months hence, but what or who are these people supposed to vote for?
Does any reasonable individual here or elsewhere believe there can be an acceptable outcome to the negotiations between Milosevic and the Albanians before the deadline expires?
The negotiations are a tactical ploy by Milosevic, they are his survival strategy.
He will go on and on negotiating until we eventually get fed up with the stubborn Albanians not letting him take them to the cleaners.
Our threats will have less impact and the Serbian soldiers will be back in Kosovo six hours later, if Milosevic so wishes.
And it will take NATO another six months to get round to doing anything at all.
How blind must the western politicians actually be to believe Milosevic's assurances that he will give way on Kosovo while at the same time, as you both noted, he has banned all the independent media in his country and forced a law through parliament that even makes it a crime to broadcast CNN and Deutsche Welle reports on radio and television?
Nobody with any respect for the human rights of the Albanians would behave like that.
He does not even respect the human rights of his own Serb compatriots.
He treads them all underfoot.
Madam President-in-Office, your belief that anything can be guaranteed within the Yugoslav legal system, in a Yugoslavia that is further removed from democracy than anyone could ever imagine, miles away, aeons away even, really is rather naive, and is irresponsible vis-à-vis the Albanians.
You may say here that you hope you can give us a better report next time.
Hope may spring eternal, but it is unfounded, because as we have seen in Kosovo: Milosevic is the problem and not the solution.
