Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Langen report deals with the impact of the changeover to the euro in three sectors, namely national and local authority budgets, agriculture and administration.
As far as agriculture is concerned, it is not enough to limit the changeover to the euro to purely administrative action.
The euro will gain in stability if we adopt a completely new agricultural policy, as this House has so often advocated and demanded, and if the new Commission proposals for this domain are recognised internationally, i.e. throughout Europe.
Let me make one point on the information campaign.
It has emerged time and again in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy that the information campaign is a very important central element in the changeover to the euro.
However, let me express this earnest plea quite clearly here and now to the responsible Commissioner in particular: in the domain of consultancy, please do not portray women, for example, as disabled persons, but rather adopt a different approach to the issue.
Allow me to add a few words on the SMEs.
It is not enough for us to launch an information campaign in this area.
The consultancy service offered to SMEs must include the free conversion of computer software and of other facilities.
We must press vigorously for such provision.
We can thus bring the euro closer to the people and remove the hurdle that the euro still has to overcome in this respect.
A brief comment on the preceding debate regarding the European Central Bank: I have the feeling that the previous speakers have been asking too much of the European Central Bank and have been weighing it down with a great amount of unnecessary baggage.
Transparency and control are what the European Central Bank lacks.
That, indeed, must be the core policy on the euro.
Even at this early stage, when I look at the example of Italy and see how little transparency the European Central Bank can operate with, it becomes crystal-clear that transparency is precisely what it will take to prevent future weaknesses and instability.
