Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the present proposal for a system of consumer information on the fuel economy of new passenger cars includes some important aspects.
It is above all an important component of the Community strategy to reduce CO2 emissions from passenger cars.
This idea is not a new one.
In my country there have already been voluntary agreements for several years to state fuel consumption explicitly in promotional literature.
This idea is also willingly taken up by manufacturers, particularly by those who can supply economical cars, of course.
I firmly believe that a label that is not only displayed for sale purposes but that is also to be displayed on vehicles on the road will in future have a much greater effect on consumer choice.
I would therefore hope that we can increase the use of incentive systems rather than penalties in such strategies.
The market could regulate itself very well in precisely these areas.
It would regulate itself more quickly if the state were to offer encouragement in the form of bonus schemes or tax incentives that would favour consumer information and prompt industry to provide it.
In addition, this consumer label will help to support the vehicle manufacturers' efforts.
The main aim in this is to reduce harmful emissions in order to fulfil the commitments of the Kyoto Convention.
But I also welcome in particular the voluntary undertaking of the umbrella organisation of car manufacturers to meet the guidelines for CO2 reduction in a phased plan over the next few years.
This declaration helps manufacturers as well as consumers and in particular the environment.
However, a secondary aspect is that it also contributes significantly to simplifying the law.
After all, it was experts who fixed binding rules, and incidentally the aim is similar to what we are planning under the bus construction directive in the Murphy report.
It is crucial that those who protect the consumer, for example the testing organisation Stiftung Warentest , the ADAC, draw up this benchmark so that the consumer receives reliable information not only from the vehicle manufacturer but also from associations that specialise specifically in this area.
We have seen this before in the case of the Green Paper on efficient pricing in transport.
Most problems are caused by traffic jams in towns.
Here consumption is particularly high, and the effects of traffic jams must of course be given appropriate consideration especially in conurbations.
We must therefore work very hard in this area to eliminate these problems, and I also believe that there should be no cross-subsidies, as mentioned in the Green Paper 'Towards fair and efficient pricing in transport' , because we have enough problems with cars, so the priority should be to work towards making cars tolerable for the environment and for towns.
