Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to congratulate Mr Sisó Cruellas on this report.
If European transport policy were as comprehensive and well-structured as his report, we would be living in a very happy Europe in terms of transport.
Unfortunately, that is not the case and I must say at the outset that this report - which, like the Commission's communication, concerns connecting the Union's transport infrastructure with that in Eastern Europe, i.e. in the applicant countries, and with that in certain countries to the north and south - shows that we have not done our homework properly.
When we look at what has happened to the trans-European transport networks, it strikes me that we have definitely not done enough.
The Commission has drawn up a report for the Cardiff Council.
I hold Commissioner Kinnock in very high regard and I also value his optimism.
He sees the glass as a quarter full rather than three quarters empty.
But the plain fact is that we have not managed to fulfil the requirements of the Delors white paper in this area even to a slight extent or to keep within the time frame.
The funding is inadequate.
Nor have we defined the political objectives clearly enough.
With its referendum, Switzerland recently sent out a signal that is important for Europe too, namely that it is quite prepared to make financial resources available in the form of a performance-related freight transport charge, in order to develop rail transport.
For when we talk about a transport infrastructure we are of course talking about a common infrastructure.
We are looking at roads, but most of all at the railways and at the fact that we need the financial resources to develop them.
Mr Jarzembowski will surely agree with me that the German elections have brought about a decisive change in this respect too, perhaps not to his satisfaction, but certainly to mine.
Precisely in regard to developing the railways and reorienting transport policy, I hope and expect quite a few changes and new initiatives so that we can put more emphasis on developing public transport, in particular the railway infrastructure, to ensure intermodal transport and interoperability in future too.
That is absolutely essential, for we can only approach our neighbours with a good conscience if we ourselves do what we tell them to do.
So we are facing major challenges here; the rapporteur has mentioned TINA, the secretariat in Vienna that is to evaluate infrastructure requirements and has already begun to do so.
How much actually needs doing, and can it even be financed?
According to TINA, some 18 000 km of roads and 20 000 km of railways are to be incorporated in this network.
To that must of course be added airports and maritime and inland waterway transport.
The estimated development costs up to the year 2015 come to about ECU 87 billion.
Some ECU 65 billion will be needed for the core network.
Can that be funded?
Yes it can, it accounts for about 1.5 % of our neighbouring countries' GNP.
That is a little more than the 1.2 % that the European Union spends on developing the transport system.
Yet we must remember that some of these countries are very poor and that, not surprisingly, it is in some of the poorest countries that the need is greatest.
In Romania, Bulgaria and Lithuania the investment need is far higher than 1.5 %, which means they will need European Union support if they are to have any chance of developing their infrastructure, adapting it to the Western European level or even exceeding that level.
Of course both sides must engage on this adaptation process.
In this connection, since I attach great value to developing the railways, although without forgetting road transport, I believe the European railways will also have to assume more responsibility for development not just in Western but also in Eastern Europe, which means the railways will have to cooperate.
So let me say at this point that the railways should stop waiting for initiatives from Brussels or elsewhere but do more themselves to develop the railway system in a client-based and client-friendly manner.
By that I do not just mean passenger transport but, of course, public transport too.
Agence Europe reported today that a certain unease had emerged in the discussions about eastward enlargement.
That may be so and I have no intention of disputing it.
We cannot just talk it away but must realise that the people of Europe will only accept and fully support enlargement if they see that both east and west are making greater efforts to help them master the challenges of their everyday life - which includes transport - than we have done in the past.
