Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a serious crisis, indeed we are in the midst of a serious crisis, and of course the first thing to ask is: who is responsible for it?
On behalf of my group, I should like to say plainly and unequivocally that responsibility lies with Saddam Hussein and his regime, and from your words, Commissioner, I infer that this is the view of the European Union, of the European Commission.
Who is this Saddam Hussein?
Is he a politician who breaks the odd rule here and there, who engages in a spot of beggar-my-neighbour policy?
No, Saddam Hussein is a ruthless dictator; he is a danger to those around him as well as a brutal oppressor of his own people, be they Kurds or Shiites, or simply ordinary Iraqi citizens.
He even diverts foreign aid for the use of his own family and entourage instead of giving it to the people who really need it.
For years now, the international community has been trying to put him in his place by means of military actions, not to mention numerous diplomatic overtures.
We surely all know how often the United Nations and Russia have tried to mediate through diplomatic channels.
And in fact every time, after every mediation effort, it has taken a few weeks, sometimes a few months but sometimes only a few days for us to see that the attempts to mediate have not delivered what they promised.
Above all, we have seen Saddam Hussein failing to honour his promises and his agreements.
Time and again, United Nations observers and inspectors are more or less expelled or forced to leave the country.
Saddam Hussein has been playing a dangerous game of cat and mouse, not only by occasionally vilifying the Americans or European countries or obstructing their work.
No, he has even turned the United Nations, that very institution which we here in the European Parliament are pledged to defend, into a laughing-stock.
He has robbed the United Nations of its authority, and every one of us, every country and every single Member of Parliament with our respect for the principles of humanity, human rights and peace and our desire to ensure that these principles are upheld in that part of the world, has effectively been turned into a laughing-stock by Saddam Hussein and his regime and its political methods.
And yet I am not very happy about the action that has now been launched, and while my group is completely at one in its perception of the problem, I am sure that different conclusions have been drawn as to whether the action that has been taken was really the best available option.
There are doubts, there are reservations, there are criticisms about the timing, the moment chosen by a greatly weakened President and the motives behind the timing of these air strikes.
There are also doubts and criticism about the fact that the United Nations was not consulted before the actual decision was taken.
I have enough legal training to appreciate that there are various possible legal arguments, all of them well founded, on the question of whether there ought to have been a new UN or Security Council resolution.
There are certainly good grounds for claiming that a new resolution would have been superfluous, since a basic resolution, which covered the sanctions too, had already been adopted.
Nevertheless, I should have deemed it more prudent and more reasonable if the United States, and Britain too, had involved the United Nations in some way in the decision and in the conduct of their military action, at least through a consultation process.
After all, there is at least the danger that the very thing we seek to avoid by tackling Saddam Hussein in various ways, namely the erosion of the authority of the United Nations, is the very thing that will happen if there is even a suggestion that it might have been wiser to involve the United Nations in the decision-making process.
That, at any rate, is the view of many people, and that is the personal view I would express in my own group.
The problem now is to find a solution to this difficult situation we are in, and I fear that if we do not deal more thoroughly with the roots of this crisis, we shall be forever having to stand up in Parliament and voice criticism, and there will be a succession of mere pinpoint actions; air strikes will be carried out, but nothing fundamental will change in Iraq.
The fact that we in this House have often been critical of what may be a rather unbalanced approach on the part of the United States of America is clearly indicative of one thing: Europe needs to develop a common foreign and security policy.
As long as Europe conducts its foreign, security and defence policies in such a weak, pussyfooting and inconsistent manner, it will not be possible to hold the United States any more firmly to particular principles and standards that we profess.
The second point is this: it is absolutely crucial that we persuade the United States to conduct its policy in that region with a greater degree of regional coordination.
We know how sensitive the region is.
We are aware that any hiccup in the peace process creates difficulties for the entire region and even puts a strain on Europe's relations with the Arab world in general.
A solution to the Iraq problem, a campaign against this appalling regime, can only be achieved in concert with the other Arab states.
It is foolish to believe that such a policy can be pursued from without, whether by Europe or by the United States, in the face of public opinion in the Arab nations.
If we cannot win over the hearts and minds of the Arab population inside and outside Iraq, we shall never be able to solve the problem.
The third point concerns humanitarian aid.
Time and again, especially here in the House, we have stated categorically that the people must not suffer for the sins and errors of Saddam Hussein, and that must continue to be our guiding principle; it is quite plain that we must provide financial aid in the coming months to help those who will really be made to suffer once again.
And so to my final point.
A great deal of criticism has been directed at the world's policeman, the United States.
It is a dangerous situation, whether it results from the American desire to take action or because nobody else is prepared to perform that function.
Let me return to the point I made at the beginning.
There is only one answer to the problem posed by the United States' role as a one-man police force, and that is to strengthen European defence and security policy.
The Anglo-French decision is a first step, but let us try to curb the tendency, the desire of the United States to act as the world's policeman, and let us seriously pursue a common foreign and security policy in Europe in order to establish a counterweight on this side of the Atlantic.
