Mr President, I am one of the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy who cannot produce a so-called 'big' report, in line with the theory that small reports are for small countries.
However insignificant our Bureau considers this report on the five year statistical programme to be, the overall effect of this is that we are discussing it today at an evening sitting and will vote on it tomorrow, Friday, when not even half of the Members of this House will be present.
I know, of course, that we cannot fire the public with enthusiasm by means of statistics and reports; these will not arouse anyone's interest.
Nor are those who have to provide the information for these statistics particularly enthused by having to fill out so many questionnaires, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, which consider statistical questions to be a tiresome duty.
I know about this as rapporteur for the SLIM programme, which aimed to simplify statistics for cross-border trade in the internal market.
However, it is not the case that industry as a whole is fighting against statistics, as it needs good statistics, such as on trade within the Community, to develop its commercial policy.
As rapporteur, I have been in a situation where European organisations, such as COOP or even Comité Vins, have begged me to compile statistics on, for example, how much white wine or red wine is exported from Rioja to Bavaria.
I must point out, of course, that if the Amsterdam Treaty were in force, the codecision procedure would be applied here, which would of course make our colleagues pay more attention and make the Commission and the Council pay greater heed to our opinions.
Be that as it may, we must not forget that political decisions of the utmost importance are going to have to be made during this programme which runs from 1998 to 2002: the reform of the common agricultural policy, enlargement of the EU, and the operation of the single currency, which will require highly harmonised statistics on the convergence criteria for the euro zone and compliance with the Stability Pact.
The development and monitoring of the labour market following the Luxembourg Employment Summit and the preparations for the definitive VAT system are further challenges for which all decision-makers will need as much information as possible.
As I have often said, a poorly informed citizen and in particular a poorly informed politician make poor judgements and poor decisions.
This being so, we need the best possible comparable and independent data for all the decisions I mentioned, and we need to have them in good time.
This will only be possible if we provide Eurostat with the necessary resources.
It is impossible, particularly in this area, to continue to demand better and faster information and studies and at the same time to try to reduce resources for Eurostat.
Reductions of this nature cost the Community, the Member States and the citizen much more money than timely, reliable statistics.
It would be preposterous if, for example, we were to measure inflation using consumer indices which are not sufficiently harmonised, if we were to calculate budget deficits and long-term debt as a percentage of domestic products which are calculated so differently that one includes the black economy, including prostitution, and the other includes unpaid work by housewives as a net product.
This may be appealing.
But if these calculation bases are not harmonised, the countries which boost their gross domestic product in this way are, of course, more likely to fulfil the Maastricht criteria than those which do not.
Countries which include in their unemployment statistics only those who are entitled to benefits and not those who are looking for work will have a lower rate of unemployment than Member States which do not do this.
These are only a few examples to show just how important the five year programme is.
I must congratulate the Commission on its clear presentation, which is why we had to reject the request by the Committee on Budgets to delete the stated aims from the appendix.
This would be tantamount to ruining a very clear, comprehensible text.
We have included in the report the reasonable requests of all the other committees, twelve of which were asked for an opinion.
The Commissioner is now sure to tell us that they all find favour with him.
I would like to thank the committees asked for an opinion, which provided us with useful suggestions.
Apart from the amendments adopted unanimously in committee, we have only one additional amendment, from Mr Blokland.
I do not like it.
In a text which says that the statistical programme must take into account the priorities arising from Community policy, which include competitiveness, growth and employment, Mr Blokland wishes to replace the word 'growth' with 'sustainable and environmentally friendly development'.
This terminology is not found anywhere in the Treaty, nor does it appear in the conclusions of the Amsterdam Summit as a replacement for growth.
For this reason, I think we should reject this amendment.
