Mr President, Mr Miranda's report, for which I thank him, contains two proposals for decisions giving discharge and one motion for a resolution postponing the discharge decision.
I should like to highlight the discharge given to the Committee of the Regions and to inform the Committee that we are very concerned about its staff policy and that the latest exchanging of posts approved by the budgetary authority with the Economic and Social Committee cannot exactly be regarded as progress.
As far as Parliament is concerned, we are closely monitoring the measures that were adopted on the basis of the Court of Auditors' report in relation to Members' expenses.
We had to delay by several months the discharge that can now be given to the Secretary-General, because our committee wished to await the findings of the inquiry conducted by the Bureau into the cancellation of funds amounting to about ECU 30 million.
The Bureau has decided on the question of personal responsibilities, and we respect that decision.
However, we are duty-bound to state that the decisions of the budgetary authority could not be implemented and that this was due to procedural errors and inadequate administrative structures.
We note the reforms and decisions adopted by the Secretary-General and we hope that these will eliminate the defects.
The administration of the parliamentary budget is fraught with many more difficulties, which are enumerated in Mr Miranda's report.
I only wish to point out that the problems dealt with by the Court of Auditors in its report on Members' allowances will have to be considered in our discharge for the 1997 financial year, since we only received this report two weeks ago.
I should also like to stress that we are not satisfied with the present arrangement whereby we grant discharge to the Secretary-General while responsibility for overruling a decision to withhold approval rests with the Bureau.
The 1996 budget was not affected by this anomaly, but it would be useful if we could reach an agreement with the Bureau as quickly as possible.
What concerns me most in Mr Miranda's report is the postponement of the discharge decision in respect of the Economic and Social Committee.
The situation described by the Court of Auditors is so serious that the Council, in its recommendation on discharge, asked the Court of Auditors and UCLAF to conduct an inquiry in order to establish the precise scale and implications of the irregularities..
This is also one of the reasons why we have been calling for the Bösch report on the independence of UCLAF and demanding that UCLAF be permitted to conduct its investigations in the other institutions too.
What we have discovered to date tends to suggest that the Economic and Social Committee is not taking our demands seriously.
It evidently considers the matter closed, but there is nothing to suggest that such irregularities cannot recur at a future date within the Economic and Social Committee.
A Financial Controller was appointed without our being given the necessary assurances concerning his independence.
For these reasons, we cannot guarantee at the present time that we shall grant discharge.
Everything will depend on how the Economic and Social Committee responds to our requests.
I hope we shall have the opportunity to apprise the new Secretary-General of the situation at our next meeting.
It seems to me that a separate vote is necessary on each of these three proposals.
