Mr President, this presidency of the Council could be commemorated with the words with which the German literary critic Reich-Ranicki tends to conclude a famous TV programme: 'the game is over, the curtain is closed and there are no answers'.
The Vienna summit was in fact rather like a play, staged with great pomp and circumstance, which has left us rubbing our eyes and wondering: is that all that has come of those great histrionic promises?
Chancellor Klima, you said: 'we discussed the future in Vienna'.
That is true, but that was not your job.
Your job was to resolve the problems of the present, because that is all a policy for the future can do.
The problems you have to resolve are sufficiently known, and they have become bigger rather than smaller since the Vienna summit.
European employment policy is slowly turning into a farce.
Let us think back: the Luxembourg summit instructed the Vienna summit to adopt an employment pact.
The Cardiff summit instructed the Vienna summit to adopt an employment pact.
The Pörtschach summit instructed the Vienna summit to adopt an employment pact.
And what did the Vienna summit do?
It instructed the Cologne summit to adopt an employment pact.
That is an insult to the millions of unemployed in Europe!
And the reform of the institutions: the greatest obstacle to the development of the EU!
Six months have passed, and it has not even proved possible to agree on practical objectives and practical timetables.
Evidently, it has not yet penetrated the Council's mind that there is an urgent need for a comprehensive democratic reform of the European Union, for the establishment of European basic rights and citizens' rights.
The enlargement of the EU, the historic task of overcoming the division of Europe, of repairing the devastating damage of the communist regime and creating a common area of freedom and stability, has gone under in the petty dispute about net contribution interests.
In recent years the Council has assumed more and more power and turned the Union more and more into a bazaar of national interests.
Let me conclude by offering a piece of counsel to the Council: hand over the task of European ...
(The President interrupted the speaker) ... to the parliaments.
Believe me, they can do it better!
