Mr President, Commissioner, in the last few months of this year, we have seen similarly steep and dramatic increases in the number of asylum seekers as we saw in 1991 and 1992.
We note that the mass of asylum seekers is again concentrated on the selfsame countries as it was in 1991 and 1992.
My colleague, Mr Nassauer, has already referred to the fact that two countries, Germany and Austria, admitted more than half of the refugees at that time.
The burden placed on these two countries is huge.
We know that their capacity to bear this burden and to integrate these people will reach its limit if this continues.
That is why I strongly urge you to be reasonable, so that the burden of admitting these people can be shared in the future.
The current situation is intolerable, and the proposals tabled thus far are not likely actually to solve the problem either.
Burden-sharing is absolutely essential for Europe.
I see the proposals presented as a ploy to prevent a real solution emerging.
The decision to admit refugees is to be taken by a majority vote, which means that it can also be passed against the wishes of the countries concerned.
The decision on distributing the refugees, which is then of course difficult, requires unanimity; we may as well assume then, that it will not happen.
As a result, the countries facing the greatest influxes of refugees now will continue to do so in the future too.
In addition, the whole business then has a multiplier effect: these are the countries which already received the most migrant workers in the past and integrated them along with their families, and so those seeking asylum go to those countries because they have relatives, acquaintances and friends there.
If we do not find a solution quickly, I fear that these countries' capacity to bear this burden will not only reach its limit, but in some cases will be exceeded.
None of us want that to happen.
The second point is a completely unacceptable proposal from the Green Group; Mr Voggenhuber thought that refugees should also immediately bring all their relations with them.
We all know what that would mean.
You can reckon on a four- or five-fold increase in numbers, and everyone can imagine the kind of problems that would cause.
I also fail to understand - and here I have also received the support of the left side of the House, which is particularly pleasing - why a temporary right of asylum can, according to the proposal, be granted for five years.
I know from experience that, during the last crisis, we in Austria admitted more than 60 000 asylum seekers from Kosovo and integrated a large proportion of them.
We know from practical experience, however, how difficult it is, when people have already spent three years in a country, to make it possible for them to return home and to help them to reintegrate.
It really is incredibly difficult.
In my opinion, therefore, to make it possible for them to reintegrate, a temporary right of asylum should initially be granted for a maximum of three years and should only be extended in special cases.
In so doing, we want to ensure that people who are, after all, uprooted and find themselves in other countries, are able to go back, and are not deprived of the opportunity of becoming part of their old communities again.
The Wiebenga report has undoubtedly shown that we need solutions.
The proposed plan is not yet adequate.
I should like to see a solution on the table very soon, because time is pressing and we already have the problems.
