Mr President, the current framework programme on energy makes it strikingly clear once again what an obstacle it is that we do not have a separate chapter on energy.
The current framework programme on energy is by no means coherent, with a variety of legal bases, as Mr Linkohr already mentioned.
Funding is at laughably low levels and is not even worth discussing.
Under these circumstances it is impossible for us to fulfil our Kyoto commitments; the current situation will not provide a stimulus for the necessary innovations, nor will it allow us to become one jot less dependent on imported energy.
What is even more astonishing is the very awkward attempt in the form of the SURE programme to edge nuclear energy into the normal energy sector.
It is a Euratom matter, so there is nothing more to be said.
It covers only safeguards and the transport of radioactive materials, and while safeguards are certainly very important, they have nothing to do with this issue.
As far as the transport of radioactive materials is concerned, what is lacking in the Commission proposal is, firstly, a uniform and compulsory notification system.
We do not have this at all, as we saw with the scandals in my country in the spring, although they did result in all transport of radioactive materials being banned since then.
Then we need to agree on the requirements to be met by containers used to transport radioactive materials.
It is not acceptable that only computer simulations should be used, as has recently been the trend.
Incidentally, this is banned in America.
Here I have to tell Mr van Velzen, who thought that we were suddenly in favour of animal experimentation, that this is nonsense!
But we do have vertical-shock tests and fire tests, and so on.
Currently, in the EU, very different containers are used for rail transport, and most of these should be banned as they no longer meet requirements.
Yet this would mean, firstly, that we would have to have an energy framework programme with substantial funds and uniform legal bases behind it, instead of organising a little bit here and a little bit there, and, secondly, that we would, of course, have to deal with every aspect of nuclear energy.
We finally need to get to grips with the issue of nuclear waste disposal, which will involve spending a great deal of money.
What will we do with existing nuclear waste?
It is only ever moved from one country to another, and no one knows where it goes.
Ideas in this area include transmutation techniques and vitrification.
We should invest our efforts and our funds in this; it is not sufficient to examine this issue only very briefly in the context of the transport and energy sector.
These are the tasks for the future, but they do not feature in the proposals under discussion.
I regret this very much.
I recognise the Commission's good intentions, but they fail to put us on the right track.
