Madam President, Commissioner Fischler, the agricultural environment programmes of the European Union have met with widely varying responses from one Member State to another.
A scientific analysis conducted in Germany to assess the approval rating of the EU agricultural environment programmes highlights this very clearly.
In your home country, Commissioner, 86 % of farmers welcome such programmes.
The acceptance rate in Germany stands at 30 %, while the figure for France is 17 %.
Three years after the entry into force of this environmental regulation, the Commission has now presented the European Parliament and the Council with an assessment of the way in which the regulation has been applied.
The rapporteur, Mr Iversen, on whose report my remarks are chiefly based, has generally tended to adopt a somewhat critical tone, to my mind, in his report.
He points to weaknesses in the aims of the regulation, which he feels should be more stringently defined, as well as calling for clearer details of the quantitative improvements to be achieved by farmers when they implement the programmes.
One of his demands is that the agricultural environment programmes should be far more strongly result-oriented.
This may mean that further increases in grants and incentives will be needed in particular sectors, and perhaps a little more democracy too.
At the present time, there are ceilings on the grants that can be cofinanced from Community funds.
However, it may be necessary to adjust these ceilings in accordance with actual requirements.
In my view, Member States which developed and implemented their own agricultural environment programmes even before the reform of the common agricultural policy have a certain advantage in terms of experience.
The main reason for the varying acceptance levels of agricultural environment programmes in the EU is not a lack of willingness among some farmers to take part in the programmes, but rather the financial priority and organisational resources that the Member States feel able to assign to the creation and planning of such programmes.
In my home region, the farmers already have quite some experience of these things.
There was undoubtedly a great deal of resistance to begin with, but I believe that the subject has now been aired as thoroughly as possible.
The greatest quantities of newly formed groundwater have been found under farmland.
Who has ever mentioned that?
In areas where the whole countryside is under cultivation, the production of drinking water is another major contribution of the farming community, alongside the other contributions - food production and care and conservation of the agricultural landscape - that we never tire of citing.
That is why I believe it makes sense for us to deal jointly with these reports on forest and mountain regions in terms of these factors too.
For these important reasons, I too am committed to ensuring that agricultural activity is maintained in naturally disadvantaged regions as well as in good farming areas.
To that end, transfer payments are necessary and warranted.
In conclusion, may I say that one of the aims of the agricultural environment programmes is to strengthen the farming economy, with its wealth of useful functions, in peripheral areas too.
In that respect, Regulation No 2078/92 makes a very important contribution to the stabilisation of rural areas.
