Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, my group is determined not to grant discharge to the Commission.
It is no longer a question of whether we have enough evidence to do this, but how we judge these facts politically, and what the view of the majority will be.
I say to my fellow Members - and I am also thinking of those sitting in their rooms in front of their television screens - that this is Parliament's finest hour.
We all need to weigh up the facts, but what standards should we apply?
Each and every one of us has different loyalties to take into account: loyalties to individual Commissioners, to our party or to our government.
But as Members of the European Parliament, should we put personal, party political or national interests before the interests of Europe?
Should we disappoint the citizens of Europe who are now expecting Parliament to send out a clear signal?
Do we not also have a responsibility to the many excellent staff at the Commission?
Doubt has been cast on their ability to do the job for which they are qualified, just because a few are not called to account.
All too often these days - and in particular from our esteemed colleague, Mrs Green - I hear that Europe would be plunged into chaos if discharge were not given to the Commission.
Quite honestly, I take a very dim view of dramatising the situation.
It only obscures one's view of the essential point.
What is the essential point in this case?
Obviously, it is the supervisory role which Parliament is assigned in the Treaty.
The citizens of Europe trust that this role will be fulfilled.
The atmosphere between the institutions is not exactly sweetness and light the whole time, but for all that, to talk immediately in such apocalyptic terms does not help one bit.
So, not so fast, not granting discharge is not a death sentence, but a yellow card for bad behaviour.
But we must send out this signal, so that the public knows that it can rely on Parliament.
Nor does it make any sense to say that we cannot be too hard on the Commission in view of our own problems.
Certainly, we should not get on our high horse, but this is about the Commission's failings alone.
We will not put an end to them by shamefaced introspection.
Let us judge the Commission for ourselves, and then in the future we will also apply the same standards even more so to ourselves.
In any case, my group will have no part in an organised display of irresponsible behaviour.
That is why we will be voting against giving discharge.
