Mr President, Commissioner van Miert, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Voggenhuber has just called Commissioner van Miert the Grand Inquisitor of competition.
This is naturally a very nice image for Karel van Miert.
I believe that it does not quite do justice to the reality, because I believe what Karel van Miert does is a service for the people in the European Union.
What purpose does competition actually serve?
Competition serves to break the power of monopolies, to ensure a variety of suppliers of goods and services, and thus to provide people with these goods and services under favourable conditions, and books are also amongst these.
In this respect, I agree with Karel van Miert.
I therefore would not call him the Grand Inquisitor, but a type of arbitrator who has our approval particularly when he fights against monopolies in the service of the people, against there only being one supplier for certain goods and services because this renders us powerless against that supplier as citizens and consumers.
As chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I should therefore also like particularly to express my appreciation to Karel van Miert for his work.
We discuss these issues a great deal in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs.
Occasionally, we agree, and occasionally we disagree.
That is part of democracy.
I should like to take this opportunity to say that my opinion differs to that of Karel van Miert with regard to fixed book prices.
Personally, I am in favour of fixed book prices.
It has involved a great deal of discussion.
We have repeatedly asked ourselves whether we should treat cultural objects in the same way as goods and services.
This was a very difficult question to answer in the case of television, for example.
Television is regarded as a cultural object.
This is the prevailing opinion, although when I switch on the television I occasionally have my doubts about whether it can be called a cultural object.
However, there is no doubt that books are cultural objects, and that they are an inherent part of our European culture.
I would say that this applies not only to books but also to small bookshops.
I must also declare a personal interest in this.
The only shops in which I like to spend considerable time are small bookshops.
I also consider them to be a completely essential part of our culture.
I believe these small bookshops depend very strongly on this issue of fixed book prices.
I believe that fixed prices do indeed offer these small bookshops a certain degree of protection.
I therefore believe that we should maintain the book pricing system.
As chairman of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, I would be very pleased if Karel van Miert would consider this issue carefully once again.
