Mr President, it was the current Federal Government, Mr Samland, and at its head Helmut Kohl and Theo Waigel, which demanded that the existing system of own resources should be corrected.
Other Member States endorsed this demand, and it is good that the Commission is now proposing this reform and admitting that there is an imbalance.
Two points need to be considered for the future: what financial resources does the EU budget have at its disposal, and how much does each Member State contribute?
Only on that basis will it be possible to have an honest discussion about the expenditure side, namely Agenda 2000.
No one is calling into question the principle of solidarity, as laid down in the European treaties.
And yet, the words spoken by the King of Spain this morning are still ringing in my ears.
He stated that the EU has changed, and all of us in this House have agreed on several occasions that the EU will continue to change.
That is why we should not assume that this system should be able to operate in the future, in the same way as it does now.
In some Member States, gross output has increased constantly over the last few years.
However, the money going back into these countries has, in principle, remained at the same level.
The current system of rebates, applied to one Member State, has lost its raison d'être - you said it yourself: they even accepted a rebate on BSE.
Traditional sources of revenue have lost their significance, and contribute more to the general confusion than to transparency.
That is why Theo Waigel proposed that each Member State's contribution should be restricted to a specific maximum amount, calculated in terms of Member States' GNP.
This restriction is no straightforward rebate, Mr Samland, but should, above all, be seen in the context of the spending reforms, and not only in the agricultural sector, but also in the field of cohesion and structural policy.
This is the basis for a larger Union.
And now you have it: cofinancing in the agricultural sector was the idea of our colleague, Mr Böge; but, as always when there is every prospect of success, many people seem to have had the same idea.
(Mixed reactions) I do not agree with the Commission's statement, in its summary, that there is no need to reform the current system of own resources at the present time, and that the system would remain practicable even in the event of an enlargement.
I do not believe this statement, in the Commission's summary, to be justified.
