Mr President, Macedonia is a young democracy which has set out on the road to the European Union under its new and promising government.
Our resolution is intended to help it along that road, and the Macedonian Government should take it in that spirit, as assistance and support, since the release of the imprisoned local politicians of Albanian ethnic origin would not only be an act of humanity, and indeed a necessary and overdue act of humanity, but would also be an act of prudence - I might even say strength, for I believe that a certain amount of self-assurance and strength are necessary assets in the pursuit of a sound policy on ethnic minorities.
In this respect, I see some very encouraging signals from the new Macedonian Government.
The greatest sources of misfortune for our states are centralism and the denial of minority and ethnic rights.
It is these, rather than federalism or laws based on ethnic rights, that have led to the break-up of various entities.
It is a matter of integrating federalism and the rights of ethnic groups, because if I feel that my dignity and my special identity are respected in the wider community, I shall want to stay in that community because of the benefits I derive from it.
If I feel that my dignity and identity are being suppressed, then I turn to separatism.
That is why I believe that a judicious, foresighted and integrationist policy is essential to weave the Albanians into the fabric of Macedonian society.
Both sides, I am sure, will make conciliatory moves, and an important first step could be taken if the university in Tetovo, which has been rather a bone of contention over the past few years under the old government, could be integrated by the new government into the University of Skopje as an autonomous institute for the ethnic Albanian community by way of a compromise.
That would be a particularly significant move, since the University of Pristina across the border in Kosovo is currently subject to brutal repression.
For that reason, I believe that this particular measure would be a step towards integration, and I would urge the new Macedonian Government to take that step.
