Madam President, the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has incorporated the principal amendments proposed by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy in its report, and has thus made appropriate comments on the Green Paper.
Five points need to be emphasised, which the Commission should respect when drafting further Community legislation on the basis of the Green Paper.
Firstly: reforms to the scope and structure of the first pillar - that is, statutory pension schemes on the pay-as-you-go model - can only take place at national level, and must thus remain the responsibility of national bodies.
In my opinion, the Community is not competent to deal with contracts between the generations formed at national level.
Secondly: supplementary pension schemes in the internal market are also characterised by a multitude of schemes and pension funds.
Community legislation should not discriminate against pension funds, either in terms of prudential supervision provisions or in terms of tax conditions.
Thirdly: restrictions on investment can only be eased if standard prudential supervision rules guarantee the possibility of controls, the joint involvement - on an equal footing - of those entitled to pensions, and insolvency insurance.
Fourthly: basic tax conditions for supplementary pension schemes need to be harmonised and improved across the internal market, so as to better exploit the potential of the internal market in pension schemes and to make it more competitive.
The principle of downstream taxation of pension entitlements should apply throughout the Community.
Fifthly: a high degree of convergence needs to be achieved within the Community on transferring and preserving pension entitlements and on vesting periods.
I should like to thank the rapporteur, but also the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights, for endorsing the proposals made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy to modify the Green Paper.
