Mr President, I agree almost one hundred per cent with what Mr Seppänen said.
I particularly liked his reference to the dangers of increased dependence on imports, which the Commission has also referred to on several occasions.
In this context, I would say that, when the euro is in place, any sudden rise in energy prices would represent a risk not only for energy policy but also for monetary policy.
We do not have time to debate this now, but I believe that it is clear.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs, Messrs van Velzen, Adam and Soulier, for these three excellent reports.
I would also like to thank the Commission for presenting this logical multiannual programme for the energy sector; as we have already said, it creates greater transparency and ties together various other programmes.
I am also very pleased that the question of safeguards, in other words the monitoring of nuclear materials in the former Soviet Union, has now been mentioned expressly within a programme.
Even if it does not involve much money, it is nevertheless a programme which is capable of improving our safety significantly.
One thing I would criticise - and this is not the fault of the Commission but that of the legal bases - is that we have a plethora of different articles which are enough to confuse the ordinary observer.
One programme is based on Article 35, another on Article 130s and a third on an article of the Euratom Treaty.
That is just how things are.
I repeat that I am not blaming the Commission but the European Union, which today has still not managed to bring energy issues together into one chapter, as is the case for the European networks, for example, and still has not allowed the European Parliament full co-decision rights.
If we are honest, all we do is to sit here and deliver opinions.
We are consulted, but no one really has to listen to what we say here.
Consultation means that you can give your opinion, which is then translated into eleven languages and finally thrown in the bin.
I know that the Commission takes what we say very seriously, but it is not obliged to do so.
This is unsatisfactory, and I would like at this point to emphasise once again that it is highly important for energy policy to be given its own legal basis and for Parliament to have full co-decision rights..
It has already been said that the cost of this programme is relatively low.
I have calculated it roughly.
Let us suppose that approximately ECU 150 billion is spent on energy investment per year in the European Union.
If the figure I have estimated is correct, this programme constitutes 0.03 % of total investment in energy.
It is not a huge amount, but we must be clear about what we can achieve with it.
At this point I would therefore like to propose that we concern ourselves not only with financial programmes but also with financial engineering.
I cannot think of any better term for this than the English one.
This involves gaining banks as partners in energy policy so that they can fund projects which border on being economically viable, while the particularly risky projects are financed from public funds.
I would urge the Commission and also Parliament's Committee on Budgets to attach greater importance to this issue.
Perhaps we can develop techniques - some are already available - to promote energy investment within the European Union.
I would like to thank the Commission once again for bringing the various programmes together, and I would also like to thank the rapporteurs once again; I hope we will continue to work on these issues in future.
