Madam President, Commissioner, with the coming 50th anniversary of the UN Charter of Human Rights, I think it is quite shameful for this House to be engaged this month in a discussion on what is so bad about the management of DGIA.
As you began your comments with the statement that rumours were circulating, I would like to point out that you are also responsible for giving rise to some of them.
Five or six weeks ago, I wrote to you personally to tell you of my worries on this subject.
To this day, unfortunately, I have received no reply.
I am having to answer telephone calls such as the one today from a colleague in the Belgrade organisation 'Women in Black', which reached agreement with the Commission upon a project in 1997, carried it out, wrote the final report, and has been waiting for the final payment to be made since the beginning of 1998.
This is because no one in the Commission has been able to read the final report, declare the work to be in order, and say that the organisation should receive the final payment because it has managed the project according to the rules.
Please tell me, what should I say to these people on the telephone?
Should I say that there are some rumours in circulation, but that in general everything is going terrifically well in the Commission?
Or should I say that things are not that great?
We both know exactly what the truth is.
It is out of the question for us to take this issue of mini-budgets and legal bases, and fight it out at the expense of the NGOs in this sensitive area.
Mr van den Broek, pressure from the Committee on Budgets would make no difference at all to the mini-budgets.
This has to do with the correct application of the Financial Regulation, which stipulates that money from Part A should not be used for Part B and vice versa.
You cannot say that the Committee on Budgets is applying pressure.
The Commission has known since 1991 that mini-budgets were not authorised and it has used them anyway.
I very much agree with you that a solution should now be found to this particular issue.
I was glad to hear you say therefore that in the 1999 budgetary procedure, together with the Commission and Council, we are going to find a solution for next year, and I hope for this year too, as you indicated.
At any rate, what makes the rumours so offensive is that behind all this lurks an unspoken policy change by the Commission.
That is why you must tell us whether you agree with Mr Burghardt, when he wrote on 22 October this year that in 1998 and 1999 priority will be given to payments to the OSCE and the Council of Europe, and so on.
If that is the new Commission policy on human rights, then we might as well give up, and then a new debate on the true meaning of the construction of civil society and the defence of democracy and human rights both inside and outside the European Union will begin.
