Mr President, Mr Santer, thank you for the Commission report.
Long awaited, much longed-for!
You did say that you had drawn up the report dispassionately.
I would have liked to have seen some passion, because then we would perhaps have had a decision on the table which it was worth discussing.
Instead, we have a whole array of options, admittedly with certain qualifications, but nothing more than that.
Be that as it may, we have also had a focused discussion in Parliament and have already reached one or two conclusions in the Committee on Budgets.
We take as our starting-point the fact that we are bound by rules in the Treaties.
Thus, Article 130a states that the Community is committed to solidarity between the poorer and wealthier Member States, and establishes one of its aims as being to reduce disparities between the levels of development of the various regions and the backwardness of the least-favoured regions.
That is the first point.
At the same time, the performance of Member States' national economies - as you also described it - is, even in the VAT system, an essential factor in determining their relative contributions to the EU budget.
If we look closely, we note that this is actually true for all Member States except the United Kingdom.
The United Kingdom generates 15.9 % of Community GNP, but only contributes 9.9 % of the budget.
You described why this is the case, namely because of what is known as the British rebate.
Nevertheless, although contributions to the budget are indeed more or less based on performance, Member States are still demanding reduced contributions!
We have already had counter-proposals for a progressive system of raising revenue, or increasing the budget above the present ceiling of 1.27 % of GNP.
All of this was reflected in the minutes of the Cardiff summit.
The Member States calling, more or less vociferously, for their contributions to be cut, base their arguments on the so-called concept of net contributors.
They have made comments on this, and so their equivalence-oriented approach - which, as a method, stands on extremely shaky ground - requires no further comments from me.
One thing is clear, however; on closer inspection, it becomes apparent that, all the same, there are definite imbalances between the wealthier Member States.
For, example, it is immediately noticeable that Denmark, with the second most powerful economy in the Community, receives considerably more from the budget than it puts in.
At the same time, countries such as Sweden and the Netherlands, with lower GNPs, bear a much higher proportion of the financial burden than the portion of the common budget that they receive.
But if, as I have just said, the cause for these imbalances is not on the revenue side, then it must inevitably be on the expenditure side.
And here, I believe that our discussions and also our lines of argument in the Committee on Budgets were more focused than those proposed in your report.
We note, namely, that Member States' participation in the common policies varies considerably.
This uneven distribution is particularly apparent in the common agricultural policy.
Member States with a large farming sector and a high proportion of farms which qualify for support, such as Denmark or France, receive higher returns - regardless of their economic performance - than Member States with a smaller farming sector.
Sweden and Germany's proportional contribution to the Community budget is thus twice as large as their proportional participation in the agricultural policy.
But because 45 % of the budget is spent on the agricultural policy, it is obvious that this is where the source of the imbalances lies.
We are, therefore, rather pleased that you also examined this, our approach towards reducing the imbalances, in your report, which is for agricultural policy to be cofinanced.
An important precondition for this is that agricultural policy should tend to move away from price guarantees and towards a system of direct income aid coupled with measures to promote stewardship of the countryside and the protection of the environment.
This trend should be further reinforced by Agenda 2000.
Already, between 50 % and 60 % of agricultural expenditure is of a structural nature.
Because these measures are applied directly on the spot in the Member States, it is appropriate to involve them in the funding, as is the case with the other structural policies.
This would not, therefore, amount to a break with the system, another point you mentioned.
That is why this scheme for national cofinancing of the agricultural policy is being proposed.
It would not only be a logical development, but would also go a considerable way towards alleviating the problem of net contributions.
Much can be said about our proposal - which we are discussing here for the first time, so have not yet formally agreed - for example, that it will propel the common agricultural policy forward, but it has one additional, indisputable advantage over all the other options you mentioned, namely that it will be possible to implement.
It does not require unanimity in the Council: only a qualified majority.
