Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my colleague Mr Sisó Cruellas's report is so excellent that I really have nothing to add, for it has all been said.
I just want to address one point which the Socialists smuggled into the committee discussions but that really has no direct bearing on the report, namely paragraph 25, which we must reject.
The proposed agreement between the European Union and Switzerland on overland transport negotiated by Mr Kinnock and supported by the Group of the Party of European Socialists contains what we regard as unacceptably sharp rises in transit charges for HGVs, which would fall on the transport industry, the economy and, in the end, the consumer.
It is unacceptable that a lorry should be made to fork out a charge of 325 Swiss francs for a one-way trip from Basel to Chiasso from the year 2001 instead of 25 Swiss francs, even if it is one of the 40-tonne lorries that will then be authorised.
It is unacceptable!
Even if, as Mr Swoboda and the previous speaker said, 57 % of Swiss people agreed to the introduction of this kind of performance-related freight charge in the referendum of 27 September, all I can say is that this may be an endorsement of the Swiss Government's position but surely it cannot dictate the negotiations with the European Union!
Then we might as well do the same and hold a European Union referendum that Switzerland would have to accept.
This cannot be true!
So I would call on the Commission to perhaps regard this referendum result as an endorsement of the Swiss Government's position, but certainly not to allow or accept it.
In the interests of our hauliers, our industry, our consumers, we must have reasonable transit charges.
At any rate, let me say to my colleagues in the Group of the Party of European Socialists that we cannot accept the proposed agreement with Switzerland, if only because we do not even know whether Switzerland will approve the construction of the two new railway tunnels and the necessary funding in a month's time.
If the Swiss people reject the construction of the railway tunnels and the funding required, there would be no commercial reason left for having the agreement with Switzerland.
We are making overland transport more expensive and telling people to use the railway tunnels; and then we reject railway tunnels too!
That is pointless!
That is why we must tell the Swiss that we insist on a mutual rapprochement and expect an approach based on partnership.
Let me briefly reply to Mr Swoboda's questions.
We are in favour of rail.
We are glad the German railways, like the Dutch and Swedish railways, are implementing Directive 91/440.
Other Member States have not even begun to implement the 1991 directive, as they should have done by 1995.
But since Mr Swoboda pleaded so strongly for the railways, let me make a brief comment.
I entirely agree with him, we should not preach something to Eastern Europe that we are not doing ourselves.
But in that case we really should tackle the special project decided in Essen in 1994 and make a start on building the Brenner tunnel; perhaps you should discuss this with your government some time.
