Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at a first glance, the system of fixed book prices in the Germanspeaking area of Europe may appear antiquated.
However, if you consider the far-reaching consequences it would have if it were discontinued, then you should be far more sensitive towards this pressing matter of cultural policy.
I would on principle have expected the Commission, as an advocate of cultural diversity and also a promoter of jobs in Europe, to take into account all the objectives of the European Treaties in its examination of the book pricing system from the point of view of competition law.
Freedom of competition is neither an absolute asset nor an objective in itself.
In my opinion the preservation of cultural diversity, laid down in Article 128(4), is in this case a more valuable asset.
Did the Commission think when carrying out its competition law analysis that in labour-intensive small businesses in the book trade possibly up to 200 000 jobs and also thousands of training places could be lost by abolishing fixed prices?
Finally, many scientific studies fear that the number of bookshops would drop from 4 000 to just 800 in the event of this regulation being abolished.
Commissioner, in the village where I live in the Black Forest, it would certainly no longer be possible to run a bookshop.
The number of publishing houses could also decrease sharply because greater proceeds from best-sellers sold at fixed prices reduce the commercial risk of promoting cultural goods.
The example of the USA should serve as a warning to us; prices for reference books and for fiction and poetry are higher there than in Germany, and the book trade there is limited to a small number of traders who belong to chains of shops, which themselves depend on the big publishing houses.
Books should therefore not be subject to the laws of uncontrolled competition!
Surely the main aim cannot be to sell culture more cheaply but to protect its diversity.
The consumers want good advice and a wide range of titles, and this is guaranteed by fixed book prices.
In my country alone, 75 000 new books are published every year compared with only 55 000 in the much larger US market.
The readers also want rapid availability of books, and our system guarantees this.
I should just like to say, Commissioner, in order to make myself quite clear, that I am not against EU competition law or the completion of the internal market in Europe.
However, it is precisely because of this that we need to maintain the price-fixing system for books.
Fixed prices allow a wide range of suppliers and titles and protect against competition.
They guarantee cultural and literary diversity on a market economy basis, and without subsidies.
I repeat: the issues are also the cultural identity of linguistic areas and cultural diversity in Europe.
Furthermore, there remains considerable doubt as to whether the Commission should refer to a report when how it came about raises more questions than it has given answers.
The Commission must also state why it did not want to be monitored by a Permanent Advisory Committee on Books, as it actually wanted to ten years ago.
