Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, I hope you will not take it amiss if I do not endorse your cautious optimism, because I find that rather difficult.
The events of recent years and in particular Mr Milosevic's behaviour in recent years have taught us quite a lot.
In fact our own behaviour in the last few months should also teach us some lessons.
If when the situation in Kosovo worsened we had taken it more seriously, perhaps we would now find it much easier to join in the general optimism.
But in fact we let things slide for a long time, for a long time we reacted very little, if at all.
We waited till the house had actually burned down before calling the fire brigade.
Thank God the fire is now gradually beginning to burn out by itself.
But there is no doubt it is still there, and it really ought to be up to us to remind people again and again that the fire in this house is still burning and has not yet been extinguished.
In this connection, I am really very sorry that I have not heard a single word in this debate about the concept of the people's right to self-determination.
I think we should always uphold that concept and reiterate it as a principle - for it is enshrined as such in the OSCE and not just in the EU.
We failed to apply the principles of the right of the people to self-determination during the war that originally broke out following the disintegration of the former Yugoslavia, and we are failing to do so again.
Mr Wiersma, I am very sorry to have to tell you that some of the words you use are quite simply neo-colonialist, because you are setting preconditions for the people of Kosovo which they should in fact determine for themselves.
You set preconditions and say that you cannot conceive of autonomy in independence.
But it is not up to us to decide that, it is up to those concerned.
We should be very careful about anticipating what will actually happen.
Let me make one more comment.
We should now look at the factors of stability in this region and support them.
At the elections in Macedonia last Sunday, the old Communist regime was voted out.
There will be a second ballot in two weeks' time, when it is very probable that a new government will get in which said right at the beginning of the campaign that it definitely wanted to build up entirely different relations with the Albanian population in Macedonia.
Many of the constituencies were won by Macedonian candidates - especially by the Democratic Alternative - and I hope that in future we shall see a region of stability here right next to Kosovo.
We in Europe should provide the necessary support.
Allow me in conclusion briefly to touch on the ceterum censeo that we desperately need.
We must not forget that the source of all evil is in fact called Milosevic and that we cannot negotiate with him, but only about him, and we must do that in The Hague!
