Mr President, Commissioner, I have been to Algeria twice this year, and the Algerians were always very proud to point out that the press was free in their country, that there was even a very diverse press, and that is as it should be.
In the light of this, the restrictions placed on the publication of several newspapers were all the more incomprehensible and serious.
Although I know that behind all this there is also a power struggle - because the Algerians are again showing a certain pride here, that despite these restrictions two ministers have had to go - I still think that this internal power struggle should not and cannot be played out at the expense of journalists and newspapers.
Democracy is indivisible, and the freedom of the press is part of it.
I hope that the latest development, that these newspapers have all been published again, is a permanent one.
I would call on the Algerian Government to ensure that there is complete freedom here.
Personally, I see the situation in Yugoslavia as more serious.
Whenever Milosevic has had to give way outside the country, he has increased the pressure at home.
That is what he has now done with the universities and newspapers.
That is completely unacceptable, and we need to do all we can to help those who are displaying any final remnant of freedom and of plurality in this country.
In this context, I should like to ask you, Commissioner, to make a statement, here and now, that you will do everything in your power to ensure that the money and the support promised to the media there is actually delivered, and delivered in good time.
Unfortunately, we have had to hear from editors in Serbia, in Yugoslavia, that they are waiting a very, very long time.
I believe that until recently they were still waiting for money from the European Commission from 1997.
It must not be the case that these newspapers are no longer able to be published not only because of Mr Milosevic, but possibly also because of the Commission's inefficiency.
I would ask you to exercise your authority clearly here, Commissioner, to ensure that this help is given.
