Mr President, Madam President-in-Office, Commissioner, I have now listened to the debate and heard much criticism and strongly-worded contributions.
I believe that we all need a clear idea of what we want, and how we intend to go about achieving it.
We want to come to the assistance of a people which is being brutally suppressed, sometimes to the point of death, and whose possessions are being destroyed, by its own government.
We can only do so, and that should also be clear, by sending assistance to Kosovo, accompanied and protected by ground forces, with two objectives - and we should indeed use ground forces if Milosevic does not give in.
The first is to provide large-scale humanitarian aid directly to those on the ground, and the second is to lay the foundations for Milosevic to agree to negotiate with the Kosovo Albanians about a new structure for Yugoslavia.
This may make NATO air strikes or air operations necessary.
But surely - and this may not have emerged clearly from the debate - two or three military air strikes will not be enough to change this grave, catastrophic situation.
We have to realise that if we are prepared, as an international community, to act as a protecting power, in much the same way as we did in Bosnia, then we will have to be involved for many, many years.
In my view, it would be a great mistake to believe that a handshake or a short attack on strategic targets would achieve anything.
I do not know whether the European Union is aware that this course of action will inevitably mean that NATO, and on the civilian side the European Union, will have to maintain a presence there for some considerable time.
I should like to say to Mr Oostlander that Austria has in fact already played an active role in other NATO operations, such as in Bosnia.
So, I do not see any reason for any stumbling blocks there - the EU has to realise this.
Obviously, I fully support all the efforts being made to win over Russia and China.
If every conceivable effort is made, and still no agreement is reached in this respect, then I believe that we must go to the assistance of the Albanian people in Kosovo all the same.
It is quite out of the question for Europe to watch while a people is - I have already expressed it thus - butchered; that is not compatible with my conscience as a European.
Of course, it must also be clear - I should like to emphasise this here - that this is no licence for the KLA to take action, to a certain extent on the back of the NATO troops or whoever it might be.
No, the KLA has to exercise the same restraint.
Madam President-in-Office, perhaps you could say a brief word about whether it is agreed, that, in the event of a military intervention, this will not be a short-term operation, but that back-up operations on the ground will also be necessary immediately afterwards, to provide humanitarian aid and, at long last, to achieve a political solution in Kosovo.
