Mr President, here we are in the last furlong of a trotting race that is suddenly being taken at a gallop.
Suddenly there is an unholy rush to complete in a matter of months the work that has lain undone over the years.
We should at least admit that the whole thing is making us somewhat breathless.
It is indeed true that minimum reserves are a key dimension of monetary policy.
Mrs Randzio-Plath has already explained why.
However, we should also perhaps go on to ask whether we ought not to envisage minimum reserves as a means of stabilising the euro in the global context and to create a broader basis for the reserve requirement.
I can encapsulate the reasons for this in the words 'derivatives' and 'casino capitalism'.
As far as sanctions, supervision and control are concerned, Mr Katiforis has already said that these are not enough.
When irresponsible traders operate with enormously potent hedge funds, the guarantees set out here will be insufficient, and as far as the statistics are concerned, not even a broad database will give us any genuine influence on real economic developments.
For all we may be on schedule, it is still worrying, I must say, that the present level of technical preparation for the introduction of the euro offers no guarantee against the eventuality of our being confronted with major problems.
As far as political support, adjustment and preparation are concerned, however, I do hope that the essential last-minute adjustments will indeed be effected.
Oskar Lafontaine certainly shows a clear understanding of the problem when he enumerates the main economic goals as follows: reducing interest rates as the key monetary task, putting economic governance into effect, incorporating equal rights as an employment target and contributing actively to the stabilisation of the international financial edifice.
Mr Katiforis rightly said that it is simply not enough to keep closer tabs on the situation.
More supervisory control is essential.
We cannot only protect the rights of those who own monetary assets; it is high time we also closed the open wound resulting from the lack of democratic legitimacy and control of the European Central Bank.
