Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too am grateful to the rapporteur.
Two thirds of all diseases can still not be treated or treated adequately.
Some of them are quite dreadful diseases, and often fatal.
Hence the need for medical research, and especially research into medical products.
The directive we are discussing can help improve clinical research in Europe.
In particular, the standardisation of procedures offers a chance to avoid duplication.
However, we must guarantee comprehensive protection of the trial subjects under all circumstances.
Special attention must be given to protecting people who are incapable of giving their informed consent, such as children and the mentally handicapped.
The Commission proposal does not take adequate account of this.
Instead, it refers mainly to the Council of Europe Convention for the protection of human rights and biomedicine.
But that convention is a subject of dispute, and some Member States have not yet decided whether or not to ratify it.
The European Commission - and I would ask Commissioner Liikanen to pass this on - should stop writing this convention into EU legislative documents, rather on the assumption that 'we need not concern ourselves with the ethical questions; the Council of Europe has already done so'.
We need very strict provisions to protect individuals who are incapable of giving their informed consent.
Under no circumstances may children or the mentally handicapped be misused as guinea pigs.
However, I do not accept Mr Ephremidis's statement as it stands, since I believe that the overwhelming majority of responsible persons in industry and in the clinics do not carry out research in an abusive manner, but abide by the rules on the protection of trial subjects.
But we must also make that clear under this directive.
I do not endorse the amendment by the Green Group to the effect that people who are incapable of giving their informed consent should be totally excluded from the research, because I believe we would then be bringing research to a standstill, for children's diseases in particular.
Some children's diseases do not occur among adults, which is why it is not possible to conduct the relevant studies in full on adults.
That is why we need strict rules, but not a total ban.
