Mr President, Mr Habsburg-Lothringen, on your question about the legal situation in Bosnia-Herzegovina, I have to say that unfortunately not everything was done that should have been done.
That is why, in particular at the Peace Implementation Conference, the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Schüssel, criticised the poor cooperation by the Bosnian authorities on this question as well as on the question of the return of refugees.
He said that the return home of Bosnian citizens, especially of course those from minority groups, is still being hampered by a lack of willingness to cooperate at all administrative levels and in particular by the generally poor security situation.
He also expressed disappointment at the lack of progress in this area and hoped to see substantial improvements in 1999.
We must manage to ensure that a critical mass of minority-group refugees return, so that this becomes an irreversible process.
That is the heart of the matter.
On the question of Croatia and the PHARE programme, let me tell you that Croatia must fulfil the conditions laid down under the regional concept if it is to be fully eligible for the PHARE programme and if it is to be included in the negotiations on a trade and cooperation agreement as a preliminary step towards a Europe agreement.
As I am sure you are aware, as early as April 1997 the Council adopted an overall strategy, what is known as the regional concept, for relations with the western Balkans, namely Croatia, Bosnia-Herzegovina, the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, the Former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Albania.
In an endeavour to consolidate peace and stability in the region, to contribute to its reconstruction and in particular to support its European aspirations, it was decided that the EU would progressively build up its relations with these countries too.
To that end, as you will know, the European Union laid down political and economic conditions that must be fulfilled with a view to the attainment firstly of autonomous trade preferences, then of membership of PHARE, and finally of treaty relations.
The Council is monitoring the progress on fulfilment of these conditions on a regular basis, and adopted its most recent conclusions on the subject on 9 November.
