Madam President, I am happy to follow on from what Mr Bourlanges said and point out that the minimalist approach of the European Union runs counter to the rising expectations our citizens certainly now have of the European Union.
Europe is increasingly being seen as a single area.
The internal borders have disappeared, and accordingly the citizens expect a comparable degree of internal security in their national states, of protection against organised crime and also of protection against illegal immigration.
For a long time now, we have been living in a Europe that is a successful, uniform economic area, but so far we have not had a corresponding legal area to regulate and protect economic activity on the basis of social justice.
That is what our citizens are looking towards.
We see enlargement eastwards as an enormous historic opportunity to give Europe a new order.
But at the same time, we must expect the applicant states to adopt our standards of security, justice and democracy, rather than simply seeing the eastern mafia managing to extend their field of operations.
The Amsterdam Treaty is certainly a huge step forward, but it also represents a major programme of work for the European Union.
We must finally realise that it has not just brought more rights for Parliament, but is also accompanied by a perceptible loss of democratic legitimacy.
This treaty transfers major domestic policy responsibilities to the Community and withdraws them from the national parliaments' direct legislative competence.
Supranational competence in these areas is conferred on the Council, which only has indirect democratic legitimacy, while the European Parliament does not acquire any significant powers of codecision.
This is a democratic deficit that needs to be tackled.
Under the new treaty, the Commission acquires a broader right of initiative; after five years it even has a monopoly here, and it will have to consider how to apply this monopoly in the interests of all, and not just the few.
The temporary protection of refugees, for example, must not just be a generous measure to help bring families together but must also ensure a fair distribution of the burden.
Consequently, in an area of freedom, security and justice, that freedom must be based on greater solidarity, greater security for the citizens; it must not founder on the persistent defence of national sovereignty!
