Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my group endorses the report and very largely agrees with what the rapporteur, Mrs Quisthoudt-Rowohl, has said.
The Agreement on Scientific and Technical Cooperation between the European Community and the State of Israel allows us to build on past successes, which began in 1996, at least as far as the present high level of cooperation is concerned.
At that time Israel, with the status of an associated state, was allowed to take part in all non-nuclear programmes under the fourth framework programme for research and technological development.
In a period of only three years, 369 joint projects, costing a total of ECU 53 million, have been successfully implemented.
However, the added value deriving from cooperative arrangements is far greater than that.
In fact, some 1 000 joint applications have been received.
The continuation of this cooperation in the fifth framework programme is in the interests of both sides.
Our own interest lies not only in the high quality of Israeli research, but also the emerging adoption of European processes and standards and the future development of more marketing opportunities in the region.
Israel, for its part, has an interest in being involved in the discussion on strategic developments in the research field which Israel alone cannot achieve.
Moreover, high-tech products are the only means whereby Israel's balance of trade deficit, like ours, can be reduced.
This cooperation in our mutual interest is therefore a long-term proposition.
That is why it is natural that not only Israel but also our Committee on Research, Technological Development and Energy and the great majority of my group favour the smoothest possible transition from the fourth to the fifth framework programme.
Postponement of our decision for whatever reason would mean, as has already been explained, that the conference of foreign ministers on 22 February could not ratify the agreement, as a result of which Israel would be unable to take part in the first round of tendering, which will take place in March, and would be placed at a financial disadvantage, as happened in the fourth framework R&D programme.
In accordance with its gross domestic product, Israel will contribute to the success of the fifth framework programme for research and technological development by making an annual commitment of around EUR 30 million.
Various members of our committee have had the opportunity to see at first hand the high quality of joint EU-Israeli research.
At our insistence, Palestinian companies and research establishments were also involved in joint projects.
It is true that even greater efforts could be made in this direction, as my honourable colleague said, and indeed we are demanding progress here.
In my own personal opinion, further research cooperation can help in the long run to stabilise the peace process, which, it has to be said, is seriously deadlocked.
The aims of science are full understanding and effective communication.
Its universal nature also offers a matrix for resolving conflicts that arise from sectional interests.
Conversely, however, scientific cooperation can only flourish in the long term in a peaceful environment.
Even if the procedure applied here is that of a simple hearing, I would ask the House to approve the report.
