Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I shall now change the subject.
I am speaking on behalf of the Committee on Budgetary Control.
I should like to sincerely thank the rapporteur, Mr Colom i Naval, because he has incorporated the amendments proposed by the Committee on Budgetary Control in his report on the financial perspective and the interinstitutional agreement.
I should like at the same time to refer to the most important, but also the most logical of these amendments.
We have jointly agreed with the Council in the text that before the European Union's budget is adopted, an additional trialogue meeting will always be held at which the Council, the Commission and Parliament will agree on how possible additional requirements - last year there was the matter of aid for Russia - can be covered by the appropriations not utilised in the current financial year, or how new requirements in the next financial year should be dealt with and how full agreement can be reached on this before the budget is adopted.
I think that this procedure comes very close to what the Member States want, but also what Europe's citizens want, which is that a rigorous and efficient budget be adopted each year.
I should also like to mention another amendment which the rapporteur has included, and which is connected with the discussion that took place on Monday evening in plenary: the 1996/97 discharge procedure.
We now have a procedure whereby new regulations are very often adopted by the Council without the old regulation having been evaluated.
We have made a suggestion in this regard, and the Council has been prepared at least up to now to accept that if possible, a new regulation should not be adopted by the Council before an evaluation of the old one has been completed.
If this could be carried through, we would achieve a real success because it makes no sense to establish during the procedure for a new regulation that the old regulation was in fact not acceptable and the new one reveals the same shortcomings.
I would therefore invite the Council to establish its position once more on this matter in detail, because Parliament has done so.
