Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to bear with me if what I have to say takes some time, but I do now have to comment on four different reports.
I should like to start straight away with the price proposals for the 1999/2000 marketing year.
The proposals which the Commission has made are in line with the same stability policy which has already been pursued in preceding price packages.
They are primarily intended to guarantee the rollover which is necessary for legal reasons.
The reform will in any case mean that in future, far fewer market management parameters will need to be set on an annual basis.
Under these circumstances, the Commission is proposing not to increase the amounts.
I believe that we should confine ourselves strictly to measures which do not run counter to the overall strategy agreed in Berlin.
At this point, I should also like to thank Mr Happart very much for his report, along with the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the members of the other committees who were actively involved in the preparatory work for this report.
With your permission, I will now turn to the amendments.
I will begin with those which seek to increase all the prices and aids so as to take account of the inflation rate of 1.9 % and the introduction of the euro.
This concerns the following groups of amendments: firstly, Amendments Nos 13, 16, 23, 33, 38 and 42 on the rate of inflation; then Amendments Nos 14, 17, 24, 34 and 39 on the introduction of the euro; and finally, Amendments Nos 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 25, 27 to 31, 36 and 41 on raising prices.
The Commission cannot agree to these amendments, because they would run directly counter to the need to improve the competitiveness of Community produce, both in the internal market and on the world markets.
Secondly, this would involve additional expenditure of EUR 463 million for the year 2000.
If that is applied to the forthcoming financial framework from 2000 to 2006, the additional costs come to over EUR 3 billion.
Finally, this would also mean that we would be unable to honour our international commitments in full, that is those on reducing internal support.
Incidentally, Council Regulation No 2799/98 on the new agri-monetary arrangements provides in any case that if there is proven loss of income as a result of the introduction of the euro, then compensatory payments may be granted, provided that the conditions specified are met.
On Amendment No 1 on compulsory set-aside, which amounts to keeping the set-aside rate as it currently stands for the coming years, I should like to point out that part of the Berlin compromise is that a basic set-aside rate of 10 % should apply for the whole of the period from 2000 to 2006.
Amendment No 2 concerns flax and hemp and aims to promote the use of these agricultural products for non-food purposes.
I understand the reasons behind this amendment.
But I cannot agree to it, because this issue needs to be considered in a wider context.
It will also need to be taken into account when the future set-aside rate and the options for rural development measures are discussed.
Amendments Nos 4 and 5 seek to introduce new measures to manage pigmeat production.
I should simply like to draw your attention here to the fact that subsidising the pig sector at the present time will only compound the problem, because farmers will be less willing to reduce the size of their herds.
Implementing a proposal of this kind would also be very costly.
Incidentally, I might also point out here that in the management committee we have repeatedly invited the Member States to make structural proposals.
We have discussed all the variants which have been mentioned here.
The Member States did not find a single one of these attractive, and stated on the contrary that appropriate market management was a sufficient measure.
I now come to the amendments relating to the wine sector.
Amendments Nos 3 and 32 on the granting of permanent abandonment premiums in respect of wine-growing areas and extending the deadline for submitting applications for premiums for the 1999/2000 marketing year from 31 December 1999 to 31 March 2000 do not cause any difficulties.
However, the Commission is unable to accept the remaining amendments on the wine sector for the following reasons.
Firstly, this will either pre-empt the reform - which has been agreed at political level - or might even go against it.
Secondly, as regards the ban on planting new areas under vines, I might point out that this was extended in the last price package until 31 August 2000, and that in 1998 an additional 10 000 hectares of planting rights had to be granted for both the 1998/99 and 1999/2000 marketing years.
The Commission cannot agree to the other Amendments Nos 26 and 31 on the monthly reimbursement of storage costs for sugar, simply because the proposed reduction is indisputably due to the fall in interest rates.
In the light of the new timetable for the reform of the common organisation of the markets in the milk sector, Amendment No 35 is unjustified.
Finally, as regards the three amendments on the beef and veal sector, Amendments Nos 37, 40 and 41, I would point out that they are unnecessary in view of the proposals to reform this sector.
In conclusion, I would ask you to bear in mind that while we are waiting for Agenda 2000 to be implemented, we should on no account lose sight of the fact that underlying these price proposals are efforts to achieve greater simplification and stability which are reinforced by the broad consensus in this debate.
Since the report Mr Happart has presented today is his last, I wish to thank him very much and, Mr Happart, you can take this assurance with you for your continued political career: for as long as I work here, I will not allow the Americans to dominate European agriculture, but like you will fight for us to retain our independence in Europe!
I now turn to the report on a number of adjustments to the common organisation of the market in fruit and vegetables.
As you know, this is only the second marketing year that this new market organisation has been in force, and you also know that in any case it is intended to carry out a general review of the way this market organisation is operating next year.
This being the case, I think it is too early for us to make more far-reaching changes than the ones proposed at this stage.
During the recent negotiations on the price package, however, the Commission did agree to make a few minor adjustments so as to improve the way in which the market organisation operates.
That alone is therefore the aim of these proposals.
I should like to thank Mr Jové Peres for his report, in which he also registers a large degree of support for the Commission's proposals.
Like him, I too believe that it is necessary to strengthen the producer organisations, on which the major burden of market management clearly falls.
Mr Peres also refers to a number of problems which we will have to deal with during the forthcoming review.
The Commission therefore believes that many of the proposed amendments are premature and would not appear to be feasible without a detailed analysis.
This applies to Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4 and 6 to 9.
I can assure Parliament, however, that the Commission will pay careful attention to these points when it reviews the market organisation next year.
The Commission cannot accept Amendments Nos 2 and 5, because the producer organisations need to have the financial and technical capability to monitor their products appropriately.
That brings me to Mr Fantuzzi's report.
Here too, my particular thanks go to the rapporteur, but also to the members of the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development and the other committees which have given their opinions on this proposal.
I am glad that the proposal has met with broad support.
The aim of the proposal is to create an operational instrument which will increase the international competitiveness of European agricultural products.
We must certainly not - and here I agree with Mr Fantuzzi - stand by and watch while our most important competitors in the new markets - such as those in south-east Asia and Latin America - pursue an active policy of export promotion, when we have nothing even remotely equivalent to set against it.
We will therefore have to make considerable efforts in this field in the future and develop a wide range of information and promotional measures so as to consolidate our position in these markets, particularly because European products are as a rule highly processed and that can only mean that jobs are also at stake here.
The Commission will observe the principles of subsidiarity and complementarity and will essentially confine itself to acting as a link or as a catalyst and ensuring European added value.
Of course, we can only take action within our limited budget, and we should also make use of the best available know-how from outside.
This approach therefore requires the Member States - both the private and the public sector - to be heavily involved in terms of making cofinancing available and providing the necessary support for managing and monitoring the measures.
I should like to say the following on the proposed amendments: firstly, as far as the criteria for selecting the eligible products are concerned - this concerns Amendments Nos 1, 5, 6 and 9 - we believe that these amendments are superfluous because the Commission proposal already covers these points in a more general way.
According to the Commission proposal, the products which can be selected are those which are intended for direct consumption or processing.
In just the same way, organic products or products made using other specific production methods may be selected, as can processed foodstuffs, provided that the information and promotional measures are of sufficient benefit and are in the European interest.
As regards the nature and content of the measures to be supported, I can accept Amendment No 7.
The more precise statement of the target groups at which the measures should be directed, analysed in Amendment No 8, does not, however, seem to me to be necessary.
As far as your proposed adjustments to the procedure for drawing up the list of products and the question of how long this should remain valid are concerned - this relates to Amendments Nos 10, 11 and 14 - this might pose problems if we still want our policy to be sufficiently flexible and if we also want to keep it up to date at all times.
I actually think it would be better to consult the Standing Group on the Promotion of Agricultural Products - as it is called - from the very outset, if time allows, and also for the lists we draw up to remain valid for no longer than two years.
Introducing such rigid rules, as proposed in the amendments, could prevent our policy from having the best possible effect.
Your proposal only to work with those organisations which represent exclusively the Member States of the European Union or to which at least two Member States belong is not one I can accept, because we also attach great importance to working with international organisations, which of course have to show an appropriate European dimension.
You only have to think of the work of the Olive Oil Council.
As regards the obligation to consult the relevant management committee rather than simply to inform it, I am willing to examine this proposal in more detail.
I have to reject the remaining points, however, because our experience has shown that programmes should not run for longer than three years, and because when we implement this scheme we want to adopt a bottom-up approach.
In addition, the professional organisations have to obtain the prior agreement of the national authorities before they submit their proposals to the Commission.
Obviously, the proposer organisations may also appoint bodies to be responsible for implementing the planned measures.
It must be clear, however, that these bodies must be selected on the basis of an invitation to tender at Community level.
I cannot accept Amendments Nos 3, 4, 15, 19 and 24 on the tendering procedure, because the Commission believes that external support facilities must be selected on the basis of an invitation to tender, so as to ensure maximum transparency of Community interests.
We also think that the Member States should have sole responsibility for monitoring and making payments, in so far as measures are to be prefinanced by them.
On your request to show more flexibility when determining the part of the funding to be paid by the Member States and in certain cases not to require any financial contribution at all - this is expressed in Amendments Nos 22 and 21 - I should like to say that I think that the Commission proposal is more balanced here in terms of the financial contributions of the three parties involved, namely the Community, the Member State and the proposer organisation.
On the proposal to increase the appropriations, as contained in Amendment No 22, I should like to say that a substantial increase would not be acceptable at the present time because the sums spent on export refunds are in no way linked to the promotion policy, since the proposal we are discussing primarily concerns quality products and products displaying high added value.
But obviously here the ultimate decision rests with the budgetary authority.
I now turn to the comments made by Mr Colino Salamanca concerning imports of garlic from third countries.
The Commission is currently investigating the possibilities open to it within the WTO for resolving the problems in the garlic sector and is also preparing to introduce a new system which provides for an appropriately high rate of duty on all garlic imports, with the exception of imports falling within the proposed tariff quotas.
In accordance with GATT rules, quotas would have to be set on the basis of average imports from third countries over a previous three-year period and allow for an appropriate annual increase.
A draft recommendation for a Council decision authorising the Commission to hold negotiations with the third countries concerned about this change in the bound rate of duty is currently being prepared.
In the meantime, as an initial measure, the safeguard clause, which exists in principle and which we have applied in recent years, is being further extended.
Proposals have already been made on this.
I discussed both these possibilities in detail with representatives of the garlic industry a few weeks ago, and in principle they also gave the green light here and signalled their agreement.
Applause
