Mr President, first let me thank Mr Titley, and not just for the fact that in terms of substance his report follows the lines proposed by the Commission but also for his realism and for the courage that is indeed required in order to deal realistically such a difficult subject.
That is why I want to begin with a very simple statement, before Mr Sjöstedt leaves.
This is what we so often see in debates: a Member tells us something or other and then leaves.
He never listens to what the others have to say.
Applause
Let me begin with a very simple statement.
I do not believe there is much dispute in the European Parliament about the need for a Common Security and Defence Policy.
A Common Security and Defence Policy, as its name suggests, is not some kind of policy of aggression but reflects the need in a world in which, unfortunately, we cannot guarantee security by peaceful methods alone, to build up a system that shows the public that we are able to defend ourselves.
That is why, even in a neutral country such as Sweden, there is no question at all about having a national defence system of its own.
Mr Sjöstedt, if in relative terms the European Union were to export as many weapons as Sweden, we would have to increase our exports considerably.
The reason why NATO adopts a different approach to Sweden than to Latvia, Estonia and Lithuania is partly because Sweden was never part of the Soviet Union.
So we should begin by stating quite soberly that we do need to defend ourselves.
That is my first point.
The second is that if that need exists and if it will take some time before we can achieve a common security policy - which is not easy politically - then, if it is going to take us another five or ten years to achieve that common security policy and if when we have finally achieved it we no longer have a common arms policy, we will face the problem that although we have a common security policy we have no means of producing weapons ourselves.
Anyone who does not understand that is beyond help!
That is why the Commission has taken the initiative of telling Parliament and the Member States that we have to do something.
For one thing is clear: our industrial policy approach in this area has been purely national to date.
That will not get us any further.
The complaints that have been made here, by Mrs Elmalan too, I believe, that we are constantly losing ground to American exports to the European Union, are true!
The reason is simply that the European industry is too widely dispersed among national undertakings, so that it does not achieve the same overall market penetration as some American undertakings.
We should just look at the order of magnitude.
If all the companies that produce arms in Europe joined forces, merged, they would still not be as big as the largest American undertaking operating in this area.
That is also a question of industrial policy.
The answer lies not just with the Commission, with the European Parliament and the European Union, it also lies with the Member States.
All the Member States have said they are aware of the need to restructure the industry.
The same applies to the Airbus.
Just recently the six countries cooperating on the Airbus came together again.
The problem there is quite simple.
Each country begins by defending its own interests, and sometimes its own policy.
The reason France finds it more difficult to privatise Aérospatiale is not because Aérospatiale does not want this but because the current French Government has more problems with this than a different government would have had.
The reason two UK firms have now merged is partly because if this aviation merger takes place, a company that has more influence can of course make more demands.
So we must realise that a kind of power struggle is taking place here.
It would be naive to disregard that.
At the same time all these trends show that the industry and the Member States have realised that something has to be done here.
I consider Mr Titley's report on this very difficult question most encouraging - it is easy enough for some people, including Mr Frischenschlager, to take the position that the right method is in fact to disarm.
The European Union would certainly be the first to accept that if we could make sure it applied worldwide.
Sadly, that is not an option.
That is why we have to take a different road.
We have proposed an action plan that quite clearly states what we can do.
I can assure you that the Commission will propose and implement all the necessary aspects of this action plan this year.
Standardisation is the first aspect.
On public contracts: what Mrs Elmalan said on the subject is the usual reflex in some EU Member States; when a problem arises, people take refuge in protectionism and in a European quota.
You could call it agricultural policy transposed to the arms industry.
But that is the very last thing we should do.
That would not get us any further at all.
So we must muster the strength to create competitive structures.
That means: common standards, joint invitations to tender, for the European arms industry can only become competitive if it issues joint invitations to tender and has common rules on the internal arms trade and on arms exports.
The European Court of Justice has on several occasions ruled that arms exports also lie within the Community's sphere of competence.
The Commission will do all it can to make progress in this area, for if we do not act now, we cannot complain five years hence that we cannot even ensure our own defence any more.
I believe we should follow a good European tradition here.
We should be able to produce for ourselves what we need for our own defence.
That is precisely the Commission's aim and I am glad Mr Titley also sees it that way and supports it.
