Ladies and gentlemen, the directive we have before us is a complex one, and I have appreciated the way in which Mr Barzanti has dealt with it.
I am not overjoyed about everything, as he and many other Members of the House know.
This is the first reading - we still have the chance to improve many aspects - and I hope that we are on the right track.
But let us just get one thing clear, and let us not be under any illusion: we are not waging a cultural war here.
This is not actually about poor artists; Ms Tongue, you know how strongly I support your position against the large telecommunications companies.
It is not about the software industry, about Microsoft versus European companies.
Nor is it about the fact that one industry is being played off against the others here.
Let us be honest.
It is about who wins control of this electronic marketplace, and a hard battle is being fought out there over this.
We are standing in the midst of the interest groups, as we can tell from the constant stream of publications arriving in our offices.
But let us not skate on thin ice by supporting one industry and believing that in doing so we are helping creators and artists; we do not want to follow a good European tradition and then end up in an American blind alley.
I would urge you not to make this mistake.
In the United States, a compromise has been reached on many points which is acceptable.
Let us not fall behind this compromise in Europe.
I would urge you to examine the law.
The happy medium lies somewhere in between.
It lies in the Commission proposal.
It lies in the proposal which Mr Barzanti has made.
It lies in the proposal made by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, which I supported - and as you know, I put forward many suggestions.
It will lie in the second reading, and in the proposals which the Council tables.
Only please let us not choose the wrong approach, let us not be under any illusions, but let us choose a very realistic, pragmatic approach which puts European industry on the right track, which protects the interests of authors and all those in this market - the great and the small, the telecommunications industry and the Internet providers too.
I would urge you to adopt this approach, and that is why I am asking you to take another considered look at the amendments, and in particular those relating to Articles 5 and 6, in time for tomorrow; Article 6 also safeguards the interests of European industry.
