Mr President, I would like to thank both the presidency and Mrs Bonino and her colleagues very sincerely for the fact that we reached an agreement in the trialogue that was accepted by both the Council and by Parliament's delegation.
On 17 December 1998 Parliament adopted 14 amendments to the common position of the Council.
During the conciliation procedure, 12 amendments were adopted verbatim or in a form close to the original, which I regard as a positive result.
In line with the compromise achieved, the deadline for transposition of the directive into national law is now to be 1 January 2002 at the latest, rather than in three year's time.
It was particularly important for Parliament's delegation that this amendment was accepted, as it will be at that point that the majority of the EU public will handling the euro as cash for the first time, and it is likely that price transparency will lead to more cross-border purchases within the internal market.
Minimum harmonisation of the law on guarantees will save the consumer unnecessary aggravation.
It was also accepted that a product produced or manufactured in accordance with a purchaser's requirements, and for which the purchaser supplied the necessary materials, comes under the directive.
An exception to this is when any lack of conformity that arises is due to the materials supplied.
If a consumer instals a product himself and a lack of conformity arises as a result of incorrect installation instructions intended for the consumer, this is also covered by the law on guarantees.
The guarantee directive will be included in the list of actions for restraint to protect the interest of the consumers, and in order to make purchases within the internal market simpler for the consumer, a recommendation will be made to manufacturers whose goods are sold in several Member States that they should provide consumers with a list including at least one contact address in each country where the goods are marketed.
This is only a recommendation, as to my regret Parliament did not want to go any further, but perhaps many manufacturers of consumer durables will in time see this as an opportunity giving them better prospects for marketing their products throughout the internal market.
In order to avoid difficulties of interpretation to the detriment of consumers, it was once again made clear in the result of the conciliation that if a product is restored free of charge to the contractually stipulated condition, any costs incurred, such as delivery, labour and materials costs, will be borne by the seller.
That gives you a brief overview of the most important results of the Conciliation Committee.
If you vote in favour of this conciliation result, and I presume that you will, consumers in many Member States will be given better legal guarantees for consumer goods, and you can rely on it that this guarantee will ensure a minimum level of protection in each Member State.
It applies to all consumer goods whether new or second-hand; the legal guarantee is valid for two years, but for second-hand goods, it is up to Member States to decide whether purchasers and sellers can agree on a guarantee period of one year.
However, in order to avoid misunderstandings, it should at least be made clear to the public that a product is only considered to be non-conforming if the lack of conformity was present at the time of purchase.
The burden of proof is reversed within the first six months after purchase, which means that it is assumed that a lack of conformity was already present on delivery, unless the seller can prove damage by the consumer or unless the type of product or lack of conformity rules out such an assumption.
Parliament has supplemented the term 'lack of conformity' in a helpful way.
A defective product is defined as being non-conforming, and published statements by the manufacturers or distributors in advertising or on the label are included in this definition.
We welcome this definition, because it is often advertising that leads purchasers to buy.
The first remedy in the case of non-conforming goods is the right to repair without charge or a replacement product, as far as this is economically viable and feasible.
If a repair or a replacement product are out of the question as a remedy, the purchaser still has the option of an appropriate price reduction or the termination of the contract.
By virtue of this hierarchy of remedy options, Parliament has struck a reasonable balance between the interests of consumers and sellers.
The directive provides for clear conditions, which is also important for commercial guarantees, that is to say guarantees voluntarily provided by manufacturers or sellers.
In order to ensure that consumers are not misled, guarantees must contain precise and transparent information, including a statement that a given guarantee does not affect the statutory rights of the consumer.
Unfortunately, I believe that the directive has at least one weak point.
The common position allows Member States to introduce a two-month time limit for lodging a complaint, in other words the consumer must report the lack of conformity within two months of discovery.
Even if only one Member State were to introduce this time limit, this would run counter to the philosophy of the directive, which is to achieve minimum harmonisation.
Unfortunately, at second reading Parliament could not achieve the majority needed to delete this provision.
Nevertheless, as we stand at the end of the end of this Parliament's legislative term, we have once again succeeded in giving Europe's citizens more rights as consumers, and I would like to thank all the Members of Parliament, the Commission and the Council for achieving this.
