Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we must be aware of the fact that there is seething unrest in the Caucasus.
Right now it concerns the tragic fate of the people in Dagestan.
Most news reports only give us a scant account of the drama taking place in this part of the world.
We need humanitarian aid there urgently.
The main thing would be above all for these people in Dagestan to be granted the same autonomy as they already have in neighbouring states.
So what is happening?
There is clearly a lack of objective information on the political situation there, but there is also a lack of respect for human rights.
The Organisation for Security and Co-operation in Europe must be commissioned to prepare a report for our Parliament, the Commission and the Council, and the task which faces us generally in our various Groups must be directed particularly at obtaining such information as quickly as possible and reliably.
Regardless of where responsibility lies for the situation in Dagestan, the fact remains that it is a result of the dramatic developments following the fall of the iron curtain and that the countries in this region have only managed with great difficulty to liberate themselves.
In addition, the political authorities responsible continue to attempt to regulate ethnic groups and to create divisions between them.
We have seen this in direct proximity to us in Europe in the former Yugoslavia, and now we are observing similar developments further away.
We must do all we can to extinguish the fire that has been kindled there, so that the people in this part of the world also have the possibility of developing in peace, establishing their own autonomy, and having a future, such as we have already secured for ourselves in Europe.
We should not forget that a few decades ago we lived through a similar fate here in Europe.
We were then reasonable and came to an understanding, and it is now our job to help people there in their development, which may perhaps run a similar course, but which can in any case offer them the possibility of a future, in which their existence is secure, and where they can take control of their own destiny.
