Mr President, may I begin by thanking the House for this debate, which has confirmed that there is no fundamental disagreement between Parliament and the Commission on this issue.
There is in fact a broad consensus and my thanks go to the rapporteur, who has made a big effort to absorb the logic and rationale of our proposal.
As a result, the analysis given in his report is very much to the point.
I should perhaps remind people, however, that today's discussion touches on only one element of the information society.
Just because we are focusing at present on electronic commerce and the Internet does not mean that other important aspects are being neglected.
What a pity that, yet again, the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media is coming out with the same old clichés.
Its members preach their blinkered cultural pessimism and then depart, depriving anyone else of the chance to lighten their darkness.
Culture and open debate go together; in German, we even speak of a 'culture of debate'.
The information society has now entered that debate, and committees such as Economic and Monetary Affairs, or Research, Technological Development and Energy, or Foreign Affairs - with its Subcommittee on Security and Disarmament - are demonstrating more receptiveness towards this new cultural phenomenon than the culturally-challenged Committee on Culture, which cannot seem to grasp what is at stake.
The same old arguments have been wheeled out regarding the negative impact on minority languages and small or medium-sized companies.
But if ever there was a 'small-friendly' technology, it is the Internet.
The new developments offer global exposure to smaller languages and small businesses at a fraction of the previous cost.
Much to my dismay, however, the Culture Committee fails to see this.
I have attended their meetings two or three times and, on each occasion, I came up against a brick wall.
We also hear repeated reference to US domination.
Mrs Thors rightly pointed out that this a red herring.
Thanks to the Internet Charter, Europe has taken a global lead.
We have been successful on domain names, as Mrs Thors also noted.
There is a danger, however, that people will begin to believe all this constant talk of how America has got poor little Europe pinned against the wall.
But it has not, and our progress can only be undermined if this is the message coming across.
I am therefore grateful to you for having stated clearly that you believe we are making headway.
Mr Malerba asked about the current state of play and where we go next.
Of course, Parliament will be involved in the whole process.
Anyone wishing to attend the conferences has an open invitation to do so.
Mr Malerba and other Members have participated in such events in the past, and we very much hope that this practice will continue
The familiar problem raised by Mrs Boogerd-Quaak has to be seen in the light of the speed of technological advance and the inherently global nature of the Internet.
When things are happening fast, legislation is not easy.
Regulations which we adopted at the outset are already in need of review; keeping pace with these developments is extraordinarily difficult.
That is why we are seeking to devise alternative-style legislation.
The second element in the equation is the global dimension of this technology.
Even if we do decide to enact directives at EU level, these have no impact beyond the frontiers of the Member States; hence the need for political agreement with other legal areas on equivalent approaches.
The Internet Charter is a move in that direction, and it has taken off internationally.
We have also been involved in promoting the Global Business Dialogue, which has been officially launched in Brussels.
A management board has now been appointed and is currently, as I understand it, holding a two-day meeting in New York.
Moreover, a conference will be taking place in September at which consideration will be given to the possibility of self-regulation.
The interested parties will either agree to sort out the problems amongst themselves or, where this proves impossible, will seek to find the most appropriate solutions.
The OECD meeting in Ottawa produced a list of some 12 to 15 problem issues, many of which can only be resolved through political decisions.
Taxation matters obviously cannot be left to the parties directly involved.
Nor can we afford to leave questions such as encryption to the sectoral players alone.
And I would point out that no decisions have so far been taken on which of the various possible systems will be authorised.
Some thought was given to the matter at a meeting of justice and home affairs ministers, but no statutory provisions have been adopted.
Until Parliament and the Council have been consulted on a Commission proposal, no legislative act can be envisaged.
We all know that.
And there is as yet no Commission proposal.
There are similar issues with regard to intellectual property; legislative decisions are required.
The idea is that this conference should prepare the ground; we will then come forward with proposals for decisions.
The Japanese are already convinced of the need to initiate a political process to parallel the one whereby private interests are working to find a suitable accommodation.
It now remains for us to win over the Americans; we shall then be in a position to respond at international level to the ideas emerging from the private sector's deliberations.
All in all, I think it is fair to say that we are satisfied with the progress of events.
May I once again express my gratitude for your understanding and positive input.
I know that you have high expectations of me over the coming months - and thank you for your good wishes.
I take it that I may hold out some hope for tomorrow's vote!
Laughter and applause
