Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the directive we are debating today and on which we shall be voting relates to mutual assistance between Member States in the recovery of tax debts.
There is certainly a great deal of scope for such assistance.
Member States can even enforce judgments in these matters.
The proper functioning of the single market depends in part on the effectiveness of this mutual support.
That, sadly, is far from being the case at the present time.
Nevertheless, since 1993, the annual number of recovery requests has averaged about 1 000, the total sum claimed amounting to ECU 50 million.
This enforced payment of tax debts always becomes particularly difficult for both parties when the debtors have deposited all or part of their assets in another Member State to protect them from seizure.
The result is that only 3 % to 5 % of such debts are actually recovered.
Directives which were adopted back in 1976 and 1977 contained provisions designed to deal with this problem, not only for agricultural levies but also for customs duties, and subsequently for VAT and excise duty too.
In 1990 the Commission made an additional proposal, but it was voted down.
It is now proposing new amendments to improve and modernise this procedure, because some aspects of it are no longer in tune with present-day requirements.
The crux of the matter, to which I shall restrict my remarks, consists of three points.
Firstly, taxes on income and property are brought into the scope of the directive.
This may come as a surprise to many people, because it is not even mentioned in the title.
In Article 2 of the amended directive, however, it is explicitly stated.
We welcome that, and surely cannot do otherwise, but I wonder why the Commission did not deal with this more clearly and why this aspect of the directive is not really apparent from the title.
Secondly, when one state asks another to recover tax debts for it, the requested state must take the same trouble that it takes to collect its own taxes.
Thirdly, executory titles transmitted by a requesting state are to become directly enforceable in the requested state.
This means that there should be no more of the delays that have hitherto resulted from the need for official recognition of the titles, sometimes entailing an additional authorisation process.
Executory titles will therefore be directly enforceable, even in the other state in which the debtor is being pursued, and no requested state may insist on implementing its own validation procedure.
We believe that the Commission proposal is right in principle and is necessary if the single market is to function properly.
In our view, however, it does not go far enough in some points to provide the basis for really decisive improvements.
For that reason, the Committee on Budgetary Control is proposing a number of further amendments.
First of all, to combat fraud and tax evasion more effectively, we need to guarantee the assistance of the other Member States for a longer period of time.
Instead of a three-year lifetime for claims, the committee proposes five years.
If the period is made any shorter - and there could certainly be reasons for so doing - the notice or decision that the attempted recovery has failed will be delivered more rapidly, but fewer cases pending does not mean a higher success rate.
In addition, Member States must accord the same priority to claims from another Member State as they accord to their own claims.
Community claims, indeed, may even take priority over national claims.
These statements have only been included in the recitals.
We hope that they will ultimately be included in the operative section too, but for the time being we are happy to see them in the recitals.
At the same time, the Member States are absolutely free to decide whether and how the costs are to be shared in cases where recovery causes particular problems or is especially costly, for example when it is a matter of trying to combat organised crime.
Irrespective of the proposals before us, I believe that the Commission still has much to do.
For example, the training of tax officers in the Member States under the Fiscalis programme needs to be improved.
Efforts are also needed to assimilate or at least harmonise the different recovery powers of the various Member States.
At all events, this is another area where solidarity and mutual trust are indispensable.
These qualities are essential to the projects in question.
Allow me to say in conclusion that the financial interests of the Community and the Member States, as is often the case, would be well served by the plans presented here.
Not only the Community, but also - and to a greater extent - the Member States will benefit from an efficient recovery procedure.
Some of the calls for amendments which the Commission has now answered have come from the Member States.
They ought therefore to ensure that the Council makes the right decision.
As for the Commission, however, if you think about the length of time that elapsed before it tabled a proposal, the Commission does appear to have been rather dilatory.
