Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we want to move from an internal market to a domestic market, and for that we need principles, and an important determining factor here is standardisation.
Standardisation is an economic instrument which will guarantee us freedom of movement for goods and services in future too.
But we want modern legislation.
We want the new approach, and specifically in the area of standards we have seen that it is necessary to reflect together on how we can secure better procedures.
The story of the tractor seat has shown that it makes better sense to opt for the new approach, that is to say to let the standards institutes in the individual countries operate independently of one another.
I think it is important nevertheless to have legislation - a directive - for this area in order to provide a political framework.
But there is a clear division here between the legislator on the one hand, who does not want to have to compose weighty tomes full of rules which are often difficult to understand - we want legislation which is lean and efficient - while on the other hand there are the voluntary and independent standards organisations where manufacturers and users quite simply meet and discuss areas which they know extremely well and where they can decide very precisely what it is they want.
We had a good example here in the House with the bus directive, the so-called European bus.
We had 142 pages of proposals, and Parliament managed to trim this proposal down to three pages.
There is no reason why buses in Europe should all look the same, from a hot and dusty village in Sicily to the rush hour in London or the distant wastes of Finland.
We think the legislator should really confine himself to specific points here, to a few requirements which have to be observed throughout Europe, while the rest should be decided on freely within standards organisations, so that here too there can be competition which does not hamper innovation but ensures that good products get on to the market safely and fast.
A further part of the system is the CE symbol.
I think the CE symbol gives us a guarantee that existing legal provisions are not being flouted.
But in addition we need to have voluntary symbols of conformity which are designed to ensure that subsequent production is monitored by independent bodies.
