Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the present amendment aims to make the eco-audit, which is voluntary and will also remain voluntary in future, more attractive to businesses.
I believe we all agree with this objective.
After initially grave reservations, the eco-audit has now become a real hit with industry in those areas where it is used, and I can say on behalf of Germany that the figures speak for themselves: in absolute terms, Germany has the highest number of participating companies, even if it is only 1 % of all companies.
Austria is in first place per capita of population, but then Austria is smaller, which is perhaps what has caused the misunderstanding referred to earlier.
Denmark and Sweden are next, with considerably lower figures.
However, there are a number of Member States in which the eco-audit is almost non-existent, as the rapporteur pointed out.
It is therefore very important to provide incentives to encourage an increasing number of companies, particularly the many small and medium-sized firms, to introduce the eco-audit; I think we all agree on this.
This is particularly important because, as Mr Schnellhardt already said, the international ISO standard 14001 means a certain level of competition which could be undermined as a result.
A number of our amendments, also tabled by our group, were accepted by a majority in committee.
I must say, however, that a number of amendments were also accepted in committee which in our view run counter to the objectives and are indeed at odds with the whole purpose of the exercise.
If we now suddenly lay down standards it is no longer a voluntary system but one in which the companies are to be given incentives to achieve more in the relevant areas than the legislation requires.
That is the incentive.
But if I now lay down fixed standards, then it is no longer a voluntary eco-audit but one that is difficult for some companies to achieve.
I must say quite honestly, on behalf of a number of colleagues and myself, that if the amendments that run counter to the objectives are adopted, we cannot vote for the report.
We want the audit to remain voluntary and incentives to be increased; we also want the administration to be reduced, in other words no further conditions to be imposed but instead to improve management.
I come from Bavaria and I can say that German companies have carried out most eco-audits because the incentives have really worked here.
I wish this were also the case in other Member States too.
