Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 3 December the European Parliament adopted by a qualified majority a draft Statute that was moderate, balanced, clearly reasonable, simple and practical and certainly also had a certain intellectual charm.
By a qualified majority!
To date we have not had any response from the Council to the draft.
The Council can accept or reject it, but if it rejects it it must give its reasons so that we can verify whether they are legitimate.
Instead the Council has put forward its own draft which is not acceptable to Parliament.
For example, it has established a permanent inequality by giving Member States the right to subject the incomes of Members of Parliament to national taxation.
The three Scandinavian Member States and the United Kingdom have now made use of this option, and France may do the same.
It may no longer be on the agenda for the German Presidency, however, as it can no longer approve it.
Now we not only have the new draft from the Council, but attempts are also being made in this House to adopt a different text tomorrow, with a motion from the Liberal Group.
How politically stupid does one have to be to change a text that Parliament has adopted by a qualified majority before we have even negotiated with the Council on it?
The Council will probably say: if we wait for another three or four months Parliament might adopt another new text and another one again another three months after that.
I have to say that the potential for self-destruction in this Parliament is enormous!
Every new text is simply weakening Parliament's position.
Furthermore, how can you expect your colleagues to vote on a constitution that is supposed to solve all their existential problems without having had the chance to discuss them in committee and without the groups even having had the chance to discuss them!
Do you expect us to be able to vote on such a text?
That is ridiculous.
Mr Wijsenbeek, we discussed my original text in this House very thoroughly and in great detail, and the result was a qualified majority.
This was a huge step forward, and now you want to turn it around!
I do not know what your reasons are, but they are not very important.
The European Parliament should not decide on a constitutional text in haste.
And Parliament would be well advised only to adopt such a text if there is a broad consensus on it in the House.
Furthermore, there will be no Statute this week.
The Council is not aware of any forthcoming negotiations.
When are they to take place?
They will never take place!
How can we expect governments that have already said that they will use the opt-out clause to agree tomorrow to allow us equality?
This is nonsense.
We really are clutching at straws here.
There will be no Statute this week.
It is as simple as that.
I therefore believe that it makes more sense to follow the recommendation of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and to say that we confirm Parliament's resolution of 3 December 1998.
We are of course prepared to negotiate with the Council, and we should have concluded the negotiations by the end of October.
The Statute can enter into force on 1 November, 1 December or 1 January.
So why not?
There is absolutely no problem with this.
But today - and I will conclude here - we must say a clear no to all attempts to change Parliament's text of 3 December 1998.
Applause
