Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the creation of jobs in the European Union is one of our priorities, we must devote the utmost attention to research, technological development and innovation.
As Christian Democrats, we are utterly convinced that competitiveness creates the safest jobs.
Businesses that seek to remain or become competitive, however, cannot achieve that aim without sufficiently outstanding research and development and without innovating.
It is true, as the Commission and the rapporteur have emphasised, that there are huge regional disparities in terms of research, technological development and innovation.
Most research, of course, is conducted in regions with high levels of economic development, and far too little research, or indeed scarcely any, takes place in underdeveloped areas.
That is a fact of life.
Our efforts must be channelled into encouraging a continuous exchange of information between richer and poorer regions.
We are convinced that cooperation should indeed take place between the research programmes and the Structural Funds.
But a clear distinction must be made between the finances allocated to each.
They are and will remain separate support mechanisms.
That does not mean, however, that they cannot supplement each other or that they are in any way incompatible.
In short, we are saying yes to cross-pollination, but no to common funding.
I can cite some successful examples of this approach from my own part of Germany, from Thuringia, which is an Objective 1 area.
We have companies there which are household names in Germany and which have now established international reputations, such as Carl Zeiss Jena, Jen-Optik or the Jena ovenproof glass company.
The European Regional Development Fund has helped to create the infrastructure conditions for the success of these companies, which have also launched some excellent pioneering research and innovation projects with the aid of funds from the fourth framework programme for research and technological development.
From that point of view, however, we cannot entirely endorse the rapporteur's proposal for Article 21, which is why we have requested a split vote on that article.
I do wish to emphasise, however, that this should not detract from our general approval of the report.
