The history of the conference on the elderly and their prospects for the 21st century demonstrates the gulf between words and action where senior citizens are concerned.
On the one hand there is the catalogue - one and a half pages long - of previous findings, meetings, resolutions, petitions and reports, and on the other hand it took almost a year between the decision to hold a conference, which was adopted on 16 October 1997, and the conference itself on 1 and 2 October 1998.
We rapporteurs faced many initial difficulties.
The President of the European Parliament, for example, refused us the use of the plenary chamber, so that we had to squeeze into our group meeting rooms.
Moreover, interpreting facilities were originally offered for only three target languages, to name only one of many other obstacles.
The European Senior Citizens' Parliament that was held in Luxembourg, Mrs Lulling, from 22 to 24 November 1993 was attended by 508 senior citizens as well as 50 Members of the European Parliament and 15 representatives of institutions.
Our senior citizens' conference was authorised for 131 participants and two MEPs, namely the rapporteurs.
The report is being presented and discussed here today - on a Friday, which is known to be the day with the lowest turnout of Members.
In the face of all this evidence, who still dares to speak of the growing recognition accorded to senior citizens?
Not I, to be sure!
Everyone talks about demographic development.
As Mr McMahon said, 75 million people in the European Union are over 60 years of age.
That represents more than 20 % of the population, and this is tending to rise because of the steady increase in life expectancy.
Unfortunately, few observers are aware of the heterogeneous nature of the community of senior citizens.
There are huge differences in terms of prosperity, social status and physical capacity.
Many people, thank God, reach retirement age in full possession of their mental and physical faculties today and remain fit up to a ripe old age.
Let me turn to the obvious problems.
Unemployment has already been mentioned.
It affects a disproportionately large number of older people.
What is more, the unemployment statistics do not include those who have taken early retirement or who, for some other reason, are not counted among the active population.
In other words, unemployment among the older age groups is far higher than the figures would suggest.
And then there is the ostracism and victimisation that occur in workplaces.
Attempts are made to root out older colleagues from the group or company boardroom and the shop floor.
Add to these the regular discrimination which is a fact of everyday life.
It is astonishing that society does not really recognise its own failure to harness the experience and potential of older generations.
Far more importance should be attached to making room for senior citizens, especially in the voluntary sector but also in the workplace.
On the basis of their own experience, they could impart a great deal of useful information and advice to junior staff.
As far as material wealth is concerned, the fact that poverty is still rife among the elderly, and especially among elderly women, is undisputed.
There is still a great deal to be done here.
But there are smart people out there, especially younger people, who are now saying that they want to terminate their social contract with the older generation.
I asked some of them, 'So do you also want to renounce the benefits that the elderly have obtained for you?
Do you intend never to use a motorway again?
Are you willing to give up free university study?
Do you intend to stop using the hospitals and clinics we have provided?'
That silenced them.
Additional voluntary pensions must not diminish the existing solidarity pact between the generations.
That is very important to me.
Management and labour, government bodies, the Member States and the European Union must adopt the appropriate countermeasures in their respective areas of responsibility; in other words, they must not seek to centralise their responsibilities in this sector but must pursue a coordinated and, where appropriate, a cooperative policy on senior citizens in the EU.
First and foremost, there is a need to initiate and encourage a new approach to the elderly within society, and I consider it very important that this approach should serve to prevent discrimination against older employees and the elderly in general.
Unless society changes its thinking, not even legally enforceable rights will do any good.
In our report we have presented a long list of instruments through which our aims for senior citizens can be achieved.
A number of useful points emerged from the preparatory phase before the conference when the Group of the European People's Party, the Senior Citizens' Union and numerous experts in the field shared their experiences.
I should like to thank my group, especially my colleagues Ria Oomen-Ruijten and Bartho Pronk, my assistant Mrs Stein and the staff of the group delegation in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, as well as the group secretariat.
All of their efforts in this matter went far beyond the call of duty.
Finally, let me express my sincere thanks to Mr McMahon of the Group of the Party of European Socialists for our close and harmonious cooperation over the past year and a half, during which we became friends.
A sorrow shared is a sorrow halved.
The sad thing we both learned was that performance and experience in senior citizens count for nothing.
Our parties, especially the heads of our parties, have blocked our bids to stand for re-election, and so we share the same fate.
For all that may be said to the contrary, fulsome praise and discrimination are never far apart for the elderly, in politics as elsewhere.
There is still much to be done for senior citizens.
Please let us set about it.
This was also my last report to the House, Mr President, and I thank you for your patience.
Applause
