Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the development of the common agricultural policy is a concern for all of us.
Nevertheless, I would like to make it clear that I personally consider the level of the cuts in intervention prices contained in the Commission proposal to be unacceptable.
I would now like to discuss two points contained in the Graefe zu Baringdorf report.
The first point concerns the concept of good farming practice, which means that farms that are managed in accordance with the principle of good farming practice will in future receive full financial aid.
Of course, this applies only if they also meet the other conditions laid down in this regulation.
Where services rendered by farmers with a view to preserving the agricultural environment go beyond good farming practice, special payment should be given, for example within the framework of Regulation 20/78.
Member States should be able to impose sanctions on the basis of objective criteria if environmental principles are not complied with, and these criteria must also be in accordance with the principle of good farming practice.
This method of farming must be recognised EU-wide and generally accepted.
I believe that Member States should develop codes which they can then promote accordingly.
The second point I would like to discuss concerns the employment situation in rural areas.
We all know that farming families must in future be given more new opportunities for income security.
It is up to politicians to create the conditions so that well- educated, innovative farmers - and this is how I see the farmers of the future - can ensure that rural areas retain their attraction.
An eco-social agricultural policy must be tailored to the multifunctional world of agriculture and rural areas.
The European farming model was agreed at the Luxembourg Council, and this must be the fundamental criterion for the next round of WTO negotiations, as European agriculture is of course considerably different from that of our other partners in the WTO.
