Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, when the House discussed Expo 2000 in 1990, Venice was still being mooted as a possibility.
It was made clear that it would be tantamount to a natural disaster if Venice was chosen to host the exhibition.
At the time, and without realising, of course, that I would be speaking as the rapporteur on the last day of this five-year parliamentary term, I said that if Venice was not going to be considered, Hanover should be Europe's representative to compete against Toronto.
We know the outcome.
Today, some ten years later, we are voting on how Europe is to participate.
There is quite a background to this, of course, because for the last 18 months we, and I myself in particular, have been working to move this whole project forward so as to ensure that there is adequate funding for the European Union to be represented at Hanover, and that is by no means an easy task, as you know.
This was why we made such a push last year for the 1999 budget, and thanks to all those colleagues who recognised how important it was for the European Union to take part in Hanover, particularly in the year 2000, it was voted through.
I would like to thank all those responsible.
I was entrusted with the report in March 1998, not March 1999 as it says here, and since then quite a lot has happened.
However, the report itself has appeared rather late in the day.
This was because the Lisbon World Exhibition was also important for the European Union and the Commission was very much taken up with it.
But it was not too late, because the European Union will be in one of the Expo General Commissariat's pavilions and will have an excellent position at the head of the European Boulevard near the Plaza.
I think the European Union has a good chance of attracting a large number of visitors.
As I have said in my report, we do not want the entrance to the European Union to be through the back door to some building or other.
No, the European Union must be open to all spectators, and this is what we have achieved through our work together.
If we can look forward to a total budget of some EUR 15 million, including the 2000 budget, then it is all thanks to the efforts of our colleagues.
And we need the money, because this pavilion looks both back to the past and forward to the future.
The theme in Hanover is 'Humankind - Nature - Technology', depicted in various imaginative ways, and what institution could be in a better position than the European Union to bring together all the various ideas from around the world and in the Member States, and to disseminate these ideas to give new impetus for the future?
I think that we have also been quite successful in having a square near the European pavilion or the European exhibition named after Robert Schuman as an indication of how important Robert Schuman was for the development of Europe, and to have a square that will remain in use in the future.
The exhibition centre and buildings will not be disappearing, but are to remain as a living centre in Hanover and the European Union.
There is another European element in the European Union's exhibition on the theme of 'Humankind - Nature - Technology': the euro.
The euro will be featured as one of the most recent developments that is of enormous importance for the future in particular, and we have arranged with the relevant bodies, including through requests made by our committees here in the House, to be able to use the euro as an electronic currency.
I think that it is important for the many millions of visitors to be able to use the euro and to explain to other people how it will work in future.
I think that everyone will pull together on this, including in the future, and since I will no longer be here in Parliament, I would ask Doris Pack, Paul Rübig and others to ensure that it is a success.
As I have said, I will not be returning to Parliament, and I should like to thank all those colleagues who have worked so closely with me in the Committee on Economic Affairs and the Committee on Culture, especially on these topics that are so important for the future.
I should also like to thank the interpreters sitting in their booths, who have communicated our activities here to others.
My thanks go to everyone, and I hope to see you again in some other arena in the future!
Applause
