Madam President, Commissioner, I am sorry that our last transport policy debate before the elections is taking place in such unsatisfactory circumstances.
But, Mr Jarzembowski, this is pure cynicism on your part.
You have consistently tried everything to prevent a system being adopted and have done everything to prevent external costs, for example, being included in toll charges or road user charges.
And now you, of all people, are suddenly pretending that this agreement would be far too low and would not help the environmental situation.
Secondly, there are the legal arguments.
Although I am a trained lawyer, I am not a European Parliament lawyer.
I would not be so presumptuous.
Nevertheless, Mr Jarzembowski, it was your proposal - your specific proposal at the last meeting of the committee - that we should vote on the second reading, and that we should confirm the first reading again for formal reasons so that we could take a decision on this subject today.
You yourself, Mr Jarzembowski, said that we should take a decision and proposed this procedure.
You have said today that parliamentarians should take this decision, and not officials.
It was the parliamentarians who made it!
Even if the officials have perhaps made incorrect allocations here and there, it is the parliamentarians who have made the decision here, on the basis of your proposal.
But let me get to the heart of the matter, because that is what I am really interested in.
The central issue is that in recent years transport policy proposals have been blocked, for two reasons.
First, because we have been unable to reach a solution on the Eurovignette, because of opposition from members of your party, not because they argued that the result would be too low, but because they were fundamentally opposed to it, as they were against making progress on European Union transport policy.
The second reason was that Switzerland opted for a solution which although it might be understandable from its own point of view, was not a solution that sat well alongside European integration.
That is why it was right that there have been negotiations on this, and with negotiations you always find that you cannot achieve the ideal solution, as otherwise there would be no compromise and no consensus, but at least you reach a consensus, even if not all interests are reconciled.
However, in this case we have managed to achieve a consensus with Switzerland which opens up that country and which fits in well with European integration, including transport policy issues, and which at the same time makes it clear that the principles of an environmentally friendly transport policy can be realised with the introduction of the Eurovignette and by diverting transport from road to rail.
Madam President, I would particularly like to think Commissioner Kinnock very sincerely for all his understanding and patience when taking part in negotiations here and in always keeping to the law.
But he has also got a good political head on his shoulders, thank goodness, because we need Commissioners who can think in political terms, whilst respecting the law, and who want to make progress.
Commissioner Kinnock has achieved progress, and on behalf of my group I would particularly like to thank him on the occasion of this last transport policy debate.
We do not know if he will continue to be the Commissioner for transport policy.
He has some splendid achievements to his credit in recent years, in this field as well as in others, and that should not go unrecorded.
We have complained enough about Commissioners here, but we can also give praise where praise is due.
