Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this report draws our attention to a new, extremely promising, but unfortunately under-utilised opportunity for Europe to export to and cooperate with third countries in the field of renewable energies, and also proposes a practical plan of action.
It is a happy coincidence that, in this very area, Europe is in an ideal position to merge its interests in the export and labour markets with the interests of third countries in cost-effective, suitably adapted energy supply systems.
The fact that renewable energies are an essential part of a responsible energy and environmental policy which may yet achieve the climate protection objectives set out in Kyoto is, hopefully, well-known.
But forecasts show that, because of both financial and non-financial considerations, wind power, solar energy, biomass and other energy sources in the renewable energies sector deserve to have much stronger support in the EU's industrial and employment policy.
That is why I expect the new German Presidency to set new trends in this area.
Back in 1995, in the Commission's White Paper 'An energy policy for the European Union', a clear statement was made concerning renewable energies, also from the point of view of foreign economic policy, and in the 1997 White Paper 'Energy for the future - renewable sources of energy', the one million solar roofs programme for photovoltaic systems was introduced, which would satisfy half the energy requirements in third countries, and at the same time provide an opportunity to promote exports for our domestic industries in Europe.
Yet I ask myself: where are the actions?
I ask the Commission: where are the implementation proposals?
I ask the Council: where are the necessary funds, the majority of which must be provided by the Member States?
Two things need to be done.
Firstly, we need a long-term European strategy to encourage exports in the renewable energies sector; this will include the entire export chain and will be trans-sectoral in nature, and it will help in particular our small and medium-sized enterprises to gain a foothold in world markets.
Our SMEs often lack reliable information on overseas markets, which I was able to gain first-hand knowledge of during a visit I made yesterday evening to such an enterprise in my own constituency which exports solar vessel systems to third countries.
As is made clear in a report, out of 17 potentially relevant EU support programmes, there is not a single one that aims specifically to provide export support for renewable energies.
Many of these programmes are unsuited to small and medium-sized enterprises, as only large projects requiring at least EUR 1 million are being supported.
The lack of market information and problems in finding business partners are further obstacles, as I have seen for myself.
In order to synchronise and significantly strengthen appropriate foreign trade activities in Europe, I am calling for a 'European Export Council for Renewable Energies', which will in particular help SMEs through effective advice and facilitate their access to the world's future markets.
This Export Council could be funded jointly by the EU and by industrial associations in the renewables sector.
It should first and foremost serve as a point of coordination, encourage the foundation of export cooperatives, link these up with strong partners in the target countries and support premarketing activities.
Haste is paramount.
The competition in the USA and Japan never sleeps.
In the USA there is already a 'US Export Council for Renewable Energies', which has offices in the client countries of the future and also has generous funding.
I will quote some figures to illustrate the importance of the sector as a whole.
For the period 1990-2010 the overall world market in renewable energies will be almost EUR 1 800 billion.
The annual productive investment volume is estimated at EUR 86 billion.
The photovoltaic sector, which is not even the biggest sector, is recording an annual market growth of 15 %.
Even in the wind energy sector an average market growth of 26 % is being projected in emergent and developing countries for the period 1998-2002.
Employment opportunities are also considerable.
The Commission itself has talked of between 500 000 and 900 000 new jobs by the year 2010, and an equal number of jobs could be created by exports in this field.
No other industrial sector, apart from telecommunications, has such a high growth rate in employment as, for example, wind energy; Denmark is an example here.
The proposed export initiative can only have a chance if we in Europe help renewable energies along the road to success, as we create confidence in European technology among our world partners by using it ourselves and by creating a viable domestic market; we must therefore promote it considerably better than hitherto and in a completely targeted way.
