Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a child born today will have an average life expectancy of 100 years or more.
While it was still commonplace a hundred years ago for people to die at the age of 40, we are now averaging a life span of 80 years.
A child born today is likely to reach 100 or more.
One of the dreams of mankind has thus been fulfilled.
We can live a second life, as people have always wanted to do, and it fills me with anger and rage when I read or hear talk of the ageing or indeed the senilisation of Europe.
To the honourable lady from the Green Group, may I say that you have cut me to the quick.
You used that very word, or at least that is how it was translated.
When it comes to people who grow old because God has given them the genes to do so, let us please beware of speaking in terms of the onset of European senility.
And there is something else that angers me.
There is such a thing as human rights, of which this House is a vigorous advocate.
So how do we reconcile that stance with a situation in which people at the age of 60 or 65, and sometimes even 55, are forced to give up their occupations, to stop working.
Work is a very, very important aspect of human existence.
There will undoubtedly be people who are weary of their work or who have performed demanding and strenuous work over the years and want to retire, but surely the law cannot say to a person 'Thou shalt not work' merely because he or she has reached the age of 60, 65 and sometimes only 55.
I see that as a violation of human rights, and Article 13 of the Treaty of Amsterdam will be a good basis for the discussion of this issue.
I very much regret that Mr Schiedermeier and Mr McMahon have to leave us.
Had they produced their report sooner, they would most probably have made it impossible for their parties to force them out.
Applause
My party and Austria are very progressive.
I have been selected to stand again for election to this Parliament because I am an old woman, because I am in my 66th year, and I look forward to being granted the privilege of spending the next few years here.
