Mr President, after the discharge was refused, I did not think there was any real prospect of a motion of censure.
Many honourable Members simply wanted to send the Commission a warning.
In the meantime, however, the Commission's insensitive attitude plus other cases which have come to light have altered the picture, so that this censure vote has become more likely.
It is significant that the Commission President, in anticipation of the outcome of the vote, has deemed a vote of censure without a qualified majority to be a vote of confidence.
Significant too is the attitude of the Socialist Group, which by turning the machinery on its head is seeking to transform the vote of censure into a vote of confidence.
The European Parliament has to exercise its supervisory function conscientiously and be guided only by facts and realities, with no heed for party political considerations.
But in our view the facts are there for all to see.
They speak for themselves - even after today's statement by the Commission President - and they require action accordingly.
If in this situation we do not give priority to the interests of our citizens, then their trust in the institutions of the Union will dwindle further still, and the European Parliament will lose its credibility and become even more remote from the electorate.
This situation reminds me somewhat of my former profession.
If circumstances allow, a criminal court judge shows conditional leniency.
But he very soon learns that he must be consistent in revoking that leniency if he is to retain his credibility.
The relationship between the European Parliament and the Commission can be compared to this.
Parliament, in a manner of speaking, sent a shot across the Commission's bows, but the Commission did not take it seriously enough.
Parliament must therefore call its bluff!
The much-used argument that this cannot be done because we need a Commission capable of functioning is just so much nonsense.
In the first place, this problem is covered by Article 144(2) of the Treaty, which says that the members of the Commission must continue to deal with current business until such time as their successors are appointed.
Moreover, if that argument were allowed, it would mean carte blanche for the Commission; it would remove all democratic accountability and would thus upset the institutional balance as well.
For these reasons, we independents will not only support the motion of censure: we shall also inform our citizens - whose money we are talking about, after all - of the way in which those Members to whom the interests of the party and their party cronies are more important than the interests of the electorate cast their votes.
Parliament must not tolerate the growing number of cases of fraud, nepotism, greed and incompetence.
Anyone who is not seriously concerned to clear up each and every one of these irregularities has betrayed the trust put in him.
