Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to thank the rapporteur, and not least for the courage she has shown here to withstand conflict, because of course we do have conflicts on this question.
It is certainly true that because of the liberalisation of the internal electricity market we also need to harmonise environmental legislation.
That is an important step forward.
Hopefully it will be the first of many!
Paradoxically, however, harmonisation in turn results in distortion of competition.
I will explain this using the example of NOx emissions.
Let us assume that NOx emissions are equal to 200 mg/m3 .
In the case of large plants, technological improvements can definitely be made.
I understand that.
But for coal, and in particular lignite, this means an increase in the price of electricity of between one and two German pfennigs.
That is not a negligible amount.
These producers might well be forced out of the market as a result.
This will mean the end of the competitive advantage - or the fair terms of competition - which they have enjoyed hitherto.
Incidentally, producers of nuclear energy will be pleased about this, since nuclear energy will not be affected and will thus be relatively cheaper.
Anyone who advocates it will certainly be pleased.
If we want to have fair terms of competition, however, we must at least bear this in mind.
In Germany, the rule is 200 mg/m3 .
When it was introduced, it required considerable investment; it was fairly expensive.
People can live with that.
If we now want to bring it down to 100 - and from a technical point of view, this is no problem for gas - it will mean a corresponding increase in price.
In terms of competition, this means being forced out of the market.
What will happen then?
Then the regions concerned will receive regional aid from the European Union or the nation state.
The taxpayer will pay for it in the form of regional aid.
That cannot be the intention!
I believe, therefore, that we need to strike a balance here.
I do not say this lightly, because of course I know that clean air is always better than dirtier air.
But 200 mg/m3 is, I believe, a perfectly appropriate value, and we should stick to it.
