Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I have to say that the rapporteur's sharp criticism of the Commission should not be taken to reflect the views of the committee.
I wanted to correct that impression immediately.
Our work on the statute for assistants to Members of the European Parliament has been difficult and has been made even more difficult by the strident background music which has accompanied it.
Nevertheless, we managed to find a way to give our assistants fair conditions of employment including social security arrangements, whilst preserving the autonomy of the European Parliament.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists smoothed the path with its proposals.
We should now adopt these proposals by a clear majority in the interests of our closest confidants.
The amendments tabled by my group include two additional elements.
Firstly, taking the Commission proposal as a basis, we have made provision to regulate the employment relationship between Members and their assistants.
This should secure the Council approval which we need.
The Council cannot have any objections if we call for general conditions of employment including recruitment, dismissal, remuneration and social security to be the subject of a contract.
Nor can it have any objections to a requirement that professional confidentiality and a ban on unauthorised second jobs including lobbying should form part of the contractual conditions of employment.
The prohibition of discrimination against citizens of third countries makes sense in view of the forthcoming enlargement of the Union, and the Council will certainly not reject the statute on those grounds.
The autonomy of Parliament to make decisions on its own affairs will be guaranteed by the second part of our proposal.
I have in mind the general implementing provisions that Parliament will adopt itself, which will lay down the details of contracts of employment on the basis of a proposal from the relevant committee.
This will also enable us to accommodate many of the rapporteur's proposals without the risk that the Council will object to a particular provision and will therefore drop the whole statute.
I would like to mention two points which I feel particularly strongly about.
The first one is short and simple.
Any statute that does not provide our assistants with the best social protection available, including sickness and pensions schemes, should go straight into the waste-paper bin.
It is not worth the paper it is written on.
The second point is also extremely important: our assistants' remuneration.
They must be paid fairly and in line with their performance.
After all, we are not rewarding certificates and diplomas, but the quality of the work done.
So we do not want a fixed scale based on certificates, professional qualifications and officials' grades.
What we need is a high degree of flexibility in drawing up contracts as employers, and also flexibility as regards remuneration.
There is also another point that we have already covered in connection with the Statute for Members of the European Parliament.
The contractually agreed remuneration should be transferred from the European Parliament direct to assistants' accounts.
This provides us with some degree of protection against the constant insinuations we have heard over the last few days that Members are a pack of thieves who exploit their assistants and use phantom posts to line their own pockets.
Thank you for your attention.
I hope that on Thursday you will support my group and myself by voting to give our assistants social security and to preserve the European Parliament's autonomy.
