Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the presidency welcomes the fact that today the European Parliament is looking in depth at the Middle East and the role of the European Union in the Middle East peace process.
As you know, the European Union is a resolute supporter of the peace process in accordance with the Oslo and Madrid agreements.
In 1996 the European Union appointed the Spanish Ambassador, Mr Moratinos, as the EU's special envoy for the Middle East peace process.
Since then Mr Moratinos has dedicated himself with great energy and initiative to the aim of bringing the peace negotiations to a successful conclusion.
Every presidency has devoted considerable attention to this region.
From 10 to 14 February the German Foreign Minister, Mr Fischer, visited all the states in the region and the territories administered by the Palestinian Authority, where he took part in the talks on achieving progress in the implementation of the Wye River Memorandum.
I mention this here because the European Parliament's resolution could give the impression that the EU is not sufficiently represented in the peace process.
I would like to point out that so far the European Union has rightly decided to support the USA in its various committed attempts to achieve a peaceful solution in the Middle East, rather than to compete with it.
The USA has for a long time been a partner that is accepted by both sides, and we recognise and respect its role and its importance in the region.
We must remember that this is a difficult process, and that while progress has been made setbacks have also been encountered.
The Palestinians' right to self-determination conflicts with the Israelis' right to live within secure and recognised borders.
In view of the complex history of the conflict, tenacity and patience are of particular importance.
At this point I would mention that the European Union has already made a vital contribution to the progress of the Middle East peace process.
The EU has been most generous in its financial support for the Palestinian areas since 1993.
Not only has it made an important financial contribution, but by doing so it has also allowed the political agreements to be implemented.
The EU is aware that a number of problems have arisen here.
The negative economic development in these areas is of course disappointing and sobering, especially in view of the extraordinary efforts we have made.
It is genuinely alarming that the population's standard of living is lower today than in 1993.
I believe that the problems are certainly largely due to the deadlock in the peace process and the resulting shortcomings in the implementation of the economic agreements.
But the Israelis and Palestinians themselves also bear responsibility, and each must ensure that international aid is applied more effectively than before in their own regions.
We must not forget, however, that there are also very successful EU projects that have significantly improved living conditions.
Examples include the building programme for schools, water treatment plants in Bethlehem, Nablus and Hebron, and waste disposal in Gaza.
It is certainly no consolation to imagine the disastrous route that economic development in the Palestinian territories would have taken if aid from the EU and other donors had not been so generous.
One thing is certain: without this aid the territories administered by the Palestinian Authority would not have been viable and as a result the entire peace process would have been in jeopardy.
We should bear this in mind in future, since our disappointment at the economic development of the Palestinian territories must not undermine the EU's fundamental financial commitment.
Financial aid is political aid.
Without our support the peace process and, accordingly, the people in this area would not have stood a chance.
I therefore welcome the EU's offer of substantial aid for the period 1999-2003 at the donors' conference in Washington and most recently under the German Presidency in Frankfurt.
On that occasion, on 4 and 5 February in Frankfurt, details were given of how EU funding is to be more efficiently applied.
Reference was made not only to obstacles caused by Israeli bureaucracy but also to the difficulties within the Palestinian administration that were rightly addressed in your parliamentary report.
By taking over the joint presidency of the conference, the EU also illustrated its commitment effectively.
However, the EU's support for the Middle East peace process also has a further dimension: the Euro-Mediterranean partnership.
With the third follow-up conference of EU foreign ministers and their twelve Mediterranean partners under the Barcelona process in Stuttgart next month, the EU will be making a further specific contribution to regional integration and economic development in the Middle East.
We are hoping that this will provide further support for the peace process and open additional lines of communication and dialogue.
I would like to look at two further points contained in the European Parliament's motion for a resolution.
The first is the reference to the need to support Jordan.
The presidency is very much of this view, as economic and political stability in Jordan is a crucial factor in peace-keeping in the Middle East.
Our Foreign Minister, Mr Fischer, also spoke to the new King Abdullah during his trip to the Middle East and expressed the EU's wish that Jordanian policy should continue as before.
King Abdullah assured him of this.
It is very much in Europe's interest that security and stability in this important state should be maintained, and the EU should therefore help Jordan as far as possible.
The General Affairs Council of 22 February asked the Commission to examine how the EU can help, taking national contributions into account.
The second point concerns the lack of water resources in the Middle East.
We all know that this is one of the most serious problems in the region and that all states affected will sooner or later be forced to cooperate.
Ambassador Moratinos has already held various talks with Israel, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority on this subject, and he has also set up a task force on water issues.
During his trip to the Middle East, Foreign Minister Fischer emphasised Europe's interest in finding a solution to the water problem.
Various Member States are involved here.
I can assure you that the European Union will continue to play an appropriate role in the Middle East peace process.
We will pursue our policy with commitment and patience, with great dedication and acuity, and in agreement with the United States.
I am sure that in the not-too-distant future the parties will achieve the peace in the Middle East that all sides would like to see.
