Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, my own comments relate to the proposals, underlying trends and amendments emanating from the left of the House.
They generally have one thing in common: they repeatedly support immigration from third countries and above all an extension of family immigration and reunification, with an overwhelming tendency to class all forms of partnership - regardless of gender - as a family, and at the same time adopting an increasingly wide definition of relatives.
The result must be obvious.
These proposals also tend to facilitate access to the labour market of the European Union.
For example, one amendment suggests that the mere offer of a work contract should be enough to qualify for a one- to four-year stay in the European Union.
The extension of refugee status is another issue exercising our minds.
I am all for thought being given to this and for seeking solutions.
However, we will not find any solutions based on the very vague definitions we have of the groups involved, for example, if when we talk about groups of people threatened with violations of fundamental human rights, we insist on categorising the right to health or the right to work as basic rights, or if we include groups who are threatened by major disruptions in public order, or people who give homosexuality as grounds for asylum.
The net is being widened somewhat too far if all these groups are to be given the status of refugees wishing to enter the European Union.
If you consider the extensive new appeal arrangements, which provide that an appeal always has suspensory effect for all these groups, even if there has been abuse of the system, then you end up with similar problems, as I have already mentioned.
Regarding asylum, I would also like to mention that we must of course give positive signals to states such as Bulgaria or Romania who are making an effort.
However, I know from my own experience of the Ministry of the Interior there that there are major problems with the justice system, the police and the development of border security.
We know that there is a constant risk of illegal immigrants entering the Member States of the European Union via these countries.
We must help them to improve their border security.
However, we cannot remove the visa requirement whilst Europe has no guarantee of security.
The effect of all these demands tends to be an increase in immigration, an invitation to abuse asylum status and an impression that we are doing too little for refugees.
This effect is unacceptable and that impression totally erroneous.
What we need, and we in the PPE Group are arguing for this, is a comprehensive solution embracing asylum and refugee issues, which provides for burden sharing and for measures to counter abuse.
The objective we should be setting ourselves is to help refugees, but to limit and regulate immigration and to combat abuse and illegal activity, so that in future we can guarantee a safe and stable Europe, in the interests of our all our citizens.
