Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I really do not understand why some Members are citing violation of the subsidiarity principle as their reason for wanting to vote against this report.
I really cannot identify any such violation.
What could be more important to us than our children?
That is precisely what makes this report necessary.
The subject is so wide and touches on so many areas that several reports ought actually to have been devoted to it.
The term 'family' is not a purely national or European one, but is a worldwide concept which means many different things to many different people.
The only thing I am sure of is that we can talk of a family when children have been born and are being brought up.
The subject can be described as European in scope, because families in Europe are in similar situations and have similar problems.
There are two reasons why it is very important that Europe should provide answers here.
The first is that Europe is growing old and grey.
This has critical repercussions, and not just on social security systems.
The second is that Europe is becoming lonely.
There are an increasing number of one-person households and elderly people living alone.
Our society is becoming perceptibly more individualistic.
The weakest link in the social chain, namely our children, are being exposed to more and more dangers.
Television and the Internet without frontiers are bringing repulsive material into our homes.
Organised criminals have long been aware of the potential of children.
The report deals with the protection of families and children.
Both need protection and support.
My last point relates to a welcome development, but one which has extensive ramifications.
More and more women in Europe are going out to work and have to be able to juggle their occupational and family responsibilities.
These developments have momentous repercussions, which must be reflected in political decisions.
Europe has to provide answers here, because families are far more important than we tend to realise.
We speak so often of social exclusion; the family is the most natural remedy.
Where does a person spend the most important years of the social integration process?
In the family!
What is the most suitable framework for the care of elderly and disabled people?
The family!
To express this in a simple formula, social policy begins with a policy on the family.
In the age of the euro and the single market, the term 'welfare' must not be entirely reduced to the growth of the gross domestic product.
The family is an essential element of quality welfare.
It is of inestimable value to us.
At this point, let me thank the rapporteur once again for her constructive cooperation and for this excellent report.
I hope that these ideas are followed up and that the report does not turn out to have been a mere paper exercise.
