Mr President, Mr Tomlinson has already mentioned the points that we have been discussing in great detail in recent weeks, particularly in connection with his report on the Palestinian issue and the new rules which we have fortunately been able to put together in a joint package with the Council and the Commission.
With the exception of the points that we had asked the Commission to change once again, we are satisfied with its proposal, which has now eliminated the problem areas that we raised in the debate.
Nevertheless, I would like to take this opportunity to mention two points once again.
Firstly, this is a programme that involves partners whose expenditure in the course of the year is very difficult to estimate at the beginning of the year.
It is not like the usual Community programmes, where we can calculate exactly what resources are needed.
As a result, there is a backlog of funds, in other words funds were earmarked which were subsequently not used and these are now left over.
However, what we need - and I know how difficult this is, as we also attempted to improve this procedure in cooperation with the Commission - is a more reliable procedure, including in terms of the anticipated expenditure in a particular financial year.
I would therefore ask the Commission to try to provide us with greater certainty in planning and implementation in the course of the year.
If you look at when the funds were used, you can see that a considerable percentage were not used until the last few weeks of the year.
However, in accordance with the Notenboom Procedure, October is the latest we can carry over funds not used in the current year.
We therefore need greater assurance from you in future: immediately after the summer break we need you to give us a summary of how much money is still expected to be spent, as we both know that last year we again had to forfeit funds because they were not going to be used in the few remaining weeks before Christmas.
I know that this is a big problem, especially for partners whom we simply have to deal with differently than we do within the Community; however, we will not be able to avoid this problem, and we do not want to weigh ourselves down with a huge burden for the future.
I would therefore urge that this should be taken into account in the report in future, and this is the purpose of the amendment by the Committee on Budgets.
We have also included it in our opinion on the report.
