Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, following on from what you just said, Commissioner, may I also wish you a long political life, irrespective of the discussions which will - we hope - be coming to a head again tomorrow!
Ladies and gentlemen, in this parliamentary trilogue - and I should like to start on a positive note - we agree on one point: CAP reform is inevitable and necessary, and it is not only up for discussion because of imminent eastward enlargement.
This is an argument which, when advanced in various Member States, including my own, is always misleading.
The problems caused by overproduction and the fact that the agricultural policy has hitherto lacked an ecological dimension - and this is something we Social Democrats explicitly recognise, Commissioner - have actually been tackled successfully in the past, and here too, some success can be discerned.
Nevertheless, and we are all agreed on this, reform of the current agricultural policy, in the light of the many years of repeated and serious shortcomings - and this is once again our view - constitutes our primary duty to the people.
The common agricultural policy does work, but recently it has in particular started to lean more towards the social side, meaning that there is a danger that a common agricultural policy and its attendant costs will meet with less and less acceptance from the European public, and the European taxpayer.
This increasing lack of acceptance on the part of the general public cannot, however, be written off as academic debate, and thus as not having any repercussions.
An increasing number of jobs in rural areas will be at risk as a result of these difficulties, unless, in the interests of those concerned, an unvarnished and - if necessary - blunt analysis of the shortcomings is finally carried out.
We have indeed come a long way together in this respect.
Commissioner, some of your proposals are along the right lines, but these parts of the proposals are not, in our opinion, sufficiently thorough and remain basically symbolic.
You are somewhat lacking in courage here to lead the way and to show your teeth for once, so as to improve the lot of weaker farmers in Europe.
Some details are, we believe - and this also emerged from the contributions made here by our rapporteurs from the Group of the Party of European Socialists - in need of improvement: you made proposals in the milk sector, for example, which further undermine the position, in particular, of smaller and weaker farmers in less-favoured areas and which - I must also add this - are a hotbed for yet more bureaucracy to rear its ugly head.
In the Middle Ages, being sentenced to be quartered was one of the most severe punishments there was.
In bringing in the dairy cow premium, please do not reintroduce the quartering of premiums.
We have actually moved on since then, and by the way: why not just go outside and try to explain this to a perfectly normal European - no one will understand a word, not to put too fine a point on it!
Detailed criticism in this House should not, however, result in total rejection of reform, which would only become necessary with eastward enlargement.
We cannot accept that.
We Social Democrats strongly urge all the Members of this Parliament to make an active contribution to this analysis, to help to provide alternatives which fulfil our responsibilities in the field of social and environment policy, and not to make themselves dependent on pressure groups which refuse reform of any kind.
We have, unfortunately, had bad experiences in the various countries in this respect.
I should also like to make the following point clear: anyone acting and arguing in this way - including through the media - robs the weaker, and often enough those who have lost out as a result of this agricultural policy, robs those very people of their hope for a better future.
For us as Social Democrats, it is intolerable that only one third of the annual agriculture budget reaches active agricultural employers.
This state of affairs becomes nothing short of grotesque when 80 % of this aid is paid out to just 20 % of farmers, who are also the wealthiest ones.
The President of the European Court of Auditors was quite right when he recently once again described this - basically, although he expressed it in diplomatic terms - as a scandal.
Moreover, the Social Democrats refuse to support a policy in the future which still gives the same entitlement to aid to the country millionaire - who, by massive rationalisation, has almost made his well-situated holding into a one-man business, and by having the best access to world markets secures the best prices - as to a farmer in a less-favoured area, who often enough can only hold his own by going short himself.
Let me just make one point clear: we do not envy this global player in the agriculture industry his economic success.
But in our policy, which must be geared to social criteria, we take account of the fact that this role of global player is something which smaller and weaker farmers in many areas of Europe simply cannot assume.
European support policy, Mr President-in-Office - and I believe this to be one of the most important headlines to have emerged from recent discussions, including under the new presidency - European support policy in rural areas must, in critical aspects, become social policy.
We must also make this clear to the lobby groups.
Obviously, we also have to come up with an integrated policy for rural areas throughout Europe.
We must not only safeguard existing jobs, we must also create new jobs in rural areas and also, by means of better infrastructure policy, ensure - and this is all part of it - that in a rural area it is possible to travel, on a daily basis, to a job outside agriculture, so that the rural community remains viable.
If we translate this better approach - which is also perceptible in the Commission's proposals on Agenda 2000 - into active policy, then I will have no further concerns about its being acceptable to the public.
One of the points close to the heart of European Social Democrats is that we make the amount of aid distributed to agricultural holdings dependent on the number of long-term jobs - on which social security contributions are payable - to be maintained and created in that holding, and of course this includes both employees and members of the family.
Reducing unemployment is one of the main themes of the Council presidency; of course, this also affects rural areas and agriculture, and we want to work together against this severe employment crisis.
The Social Democrats in the European Parliament call this policy a policy for rural areas.
This is an integrated policy.
We have also had a wide-ranging discussion in our group.
We have had to reach compromises, and we are glad that we are also able to reach compromises of this kind in direct negotiations with the Council and the Commission.
I can, however, tell you a secret - it is no secret really - the secret of the democratic Members of this House: in the future, we do not want these negotiations to lead simply to our making a contribution; as elected representatives of the European people, we also want to have the power of codecision in this final part of the European budget, because that is what we have been elected for, and we ask for your support in this respect too!
