Mr President, I too would like to congratulate Mrs Ojala, who has once again demonstrated that someone from the Left who shows a sense of commitment and responsibility can really help to improve the quality of the work done by the entire House.
What is this issue all about?
It is about a revolution in the world of work, which is currently undergoing fundamental changes.
The traditional factories and conveyor belts and the safety measures that went with them are all in decline.
In the single market, we need to ensure that the new forms of work organisation do not lead to more uncertainty and stress, and that conditions of employment which are protected by social and labour legislation are not gradually replaced by conditions determined by commercial law.
We must also ensure that the progress achieved in working conditions under the old structures, particularly at national level, is genuinely reflected in new and appropriate forms at European level.
We have two types of mechanisms here: the balance of interests and communication on the one hand, and the Community programme on the other.
I think it is quite clear that the social partners' right to make appointments is an important element of their independence, but it is also our job to ensure representativeness and efficiency.
I therefore think that Mrs Ojala is right on this issue, rather than the PPE Group.
Secondly, on the subject of the Community programme, some of the major points such as asbestos and mental strain have already been mentioned.
Parliament has already done a considerable amount of work on these, but there is still more to be done.
Generally speaking, the acquis communautaire in this field needs to be deepened and we need to ensure that we are properly prepared for the process of enlargement to the east and, in part, to the south, which will bring new generations of workers into the single market.
It will be absolutely vital to ensure that every employee has fair, healthy and humane working conditions, because that is, after all, what this is all about.
The humanisation of working life is the task that now faces us in the single market.
