Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, a rapporteur can discover some astonishing things when he listens to the debate on the preceding report.
I was certainly rather surprised to hear Mr Bangemann say that he would not be unduly upset if he were unable to complete his term of office.
That would not be a matter of indifference to me if I were a Commissioner bearing responsibility for Europe.
And perhaps I would work inside the Commission to ensure that the cases criticised by Parliament did not give any further cause for criticism.
But let us move on to the bananas.
Our debate on my report at second reading deals with bananas at a time when this subject is in the international spotlight once again because of the possible escalation of the dispute between the EU and the United States, as well as some Latin American countries, and because of the threat of a trade war.
The report, which was adopted unanimously by the Committee on Development and Cooperation, deals with one aspect of the banana problem; although it is undoubtedly relevant to the WTO issue, it only deals with the payments to banana producers in ACP countries.
In 1997, the United States and several Latin American countries applied for a WTO panel investigation.
The WTO panel found that the EU market organisation of that time did not conform to WTO rules.
The Commission then submitted a proposed amendment package, which was accepted in 1998.
As part of the package of proposals, the Commission suggested that additional payments be made from the EU budget to the ACP banana producers.
There is still some controversy, even within the WTO, as to whether the adjustments made to the actual organisation of the EU markets meet WTO requirements.
I believe I speak for everyone here when I emphasise that it is not for the USA to take this decision, but rather the competent WTO authorities.
It needs to be emphasised time and again that the USA has no right to take unilateral action in this matter.
Speaking personally and on behalf of no one, however, I must also say that the European Union will surely have to prepare itself to accept the WTO ruling, and that further adjustments may have to be accepted at some future date.
The report, however, is only concerned with the package of compensatory payments proposed by the Commission, even though they are not part of a legal framework.
It asks the question how these compensatory payments are to be made, in what form and to which producers.
Here too, there are various positions within the European Union.
There are differences between the Council and Parliament.
The Council has rejected some important amendments which Parliament tabled at first reading.
Some of these decisions are beyond my comprehension as the rapporteur, and I am sure the whole committee finds them equally baffling.
One of Parliament's main priorities was to support 'fair trade' producers.
This has always been a parliamentary priority and should also play a very prominent part in the allocation of funds to producers, rather than the minor role suggested by the Council in the common position.
We believe that payment should depend on compliance with minimum standards in terms of working conditions, and we believe that grower and producer organisations, the farmers' organisations, should be involved in the allocation of the funds.
The committee also decided by a majority vote to increase the funding of the programme and to diversify the funding targets in some respects, as set out in Amendments Nos 19, 9 and 15.
As the rapporteur, I voiced my opposition to this, but I had to bow to the majority of the House.
One of the key amendments, in my view, is our exclusion of multinational corporations from eligibility for support under this financial instrument.
It surely cannot be right, when everyone believes that Europe's purpose in this market organisation, in everything we do in the banana business, is to protect the small and independent growers against the large multinationals, if we table an amendment to precisely that effect, specifying that support payments are to be made to small and independent growers and not to multinational concerns, and if this amendment is then rejected.
That, however, is exactly what the Commission and the Council have done, even though Parliament adopted the amendment by a large majority at the first reading.
The committee has tabled it again, and I would ask the Commission to reconsider its position very carefully, because the European Union will forfeit all its credibility if we operate on the basis that it is all right to support the multinationals as long as they are working in the ACP countries, but if they are working in Latin America they are evil, and we must erect a wall of bureaucracy to keep them out of the European market.
That, in my opinion, is hypocrisy.
It divests our entire policy of any credibility.
I believe the European Commission should express itself quite clearly on this.
Otherwise, I shall be more convinced than ever that our policy on the banana issue is rather too deeply steeped in hypocrisy.
There is a principle involved here, and we must apply it consistently.
