Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Sir Leon, this is the second time this year that the European Parliament is reacting to the current transatlantic trade dispute about bananas.
Sir Leon has just described the background very accurately.
The dispute is becoming increasingly bitter and is beginning to look like a trade war.
It is becoming more and more absurd and putting the credibility of the WTO and its procedures as a whole at risk.
The European Union put a new and revised banana regime in place on 1 January 1999.
It did so after the WTO decided that the previous regime was not in conformity with WTO rules.
The USA continues to doubt whether even this new, revised complies with WTO rules.
That is its right.
But it is not within its rights to pronounce unilateral trade sanctions in the form of punitive tariffs directed against the companies of its transatlantic partner.
This conflicts in every respect with the spirit of the World Trade Organisation and therefore means a breach of the WTO rules, in particular Articles 1, 2 and 22.
In so doing the United States is placing itself outside the multilateral legal system.
Sanctions may not be imposed before the conclusion of the arbitration procedure.
My group supports the Commission's negotiating position.
We support the Commission's statement that our side will not impose unilateral measures and we want to remain in conformity with WTO rules.
However, we certainly believe it would be sensible to keep all the options open.
Let me at this point appeal to our American colleagues in the Congress and the Senate.
It is especially important that the transatlantic partnership, and in particular the economic partnership that we have approved, prove themselves in times of crisis.
However much sympathy I have for national interests, however much sympathy I have for the desire to make up the American trade deficit, these must not put the very fragile WTO rules at risk.
It is rather ironic that the EU-USA parliamentary delegation will, we hope, be holding its first video conference this week at which it will be discussing and also organising closer political coordination and management of the transatlantic dialogue.
I think we should jointly discuss how we can strengthen a common world organisation and ensure that we do not unilaterally put it at risk by playing on national interests.
Applause
