Mr President, I must, of course, express my pleasure at our having finally arrived at a joint text for the directive on irradiated foodstuffs after ten years.
It is worth noting that the Council alone has spent eight years considering the draft, which further testifies to the controversy that surrounds this method.
Naturally enough, we might ask why foodstuffs should be irradiated at all, since it has been proved that vitamins in fruit and vegetables are killed off and also that the irradiation of products with fat content releases free radicals, which, as we know, are carcinogenic.
But I should also like to remind the House that, for as long as we have not had a standard framework, we have naturally had no compulsory labelling either.
Since irradiation is practised in several countries, such as France, Belgium and the Netherlands, and since we have a single market in which irradiated products are traded, there is no real point now in maintaining the old position that Parliament once adopted.
We must prohibit it.
Just wait, Mr Bangemann; it is too soon to be rejoicing.
This will not now happen.
Eighteen months after the entry into force of the directive, labelling will become compulsory.
This naturally also applies to spices and other ingredients, even - and this is very important - if such ingredients constitute less than 25 % of the product.
In addition, we have managed to ensure that, after 1 January 2003, irradiation will only be permissible if standardised and validated verification methods are in place.
You certainly did some resolute stonewalling on this point, Mr Bangemann, and the only reason why we were able to overcome the resistance of the Commission is that the Council was on our side for once.
That was naturally very gratifying.
Another important point is that changes to the list of foods and ingredients - which, for its part, has to be on the table by 31 December 2000 - are always governed by the provisions of Article 100a of the Treaty.
It has also been established that the treatment of foodstuffs with ionising radiation must not be a substitute for hygiene, nor must it be used in production processes or in agriculture.
It used to be the case that when food started to go off, ionising radiation was applied, and the eye was deceived, so to speak.
This will no longer be possible in future.
But the crucial point will naturally remain the extent to which we educate consumers on what it means when foodstuffs are treated with ionising radiation.
This, of course, is not something that the average housewife would know.
I can only hope, and we shall be pressing this point, that it will not appear in such small print that it is overlooked, because I still take the view that there is no real need to irradiate foodstuffs.
We should do better to ensure that we eat whatever is in season.
It is not absolutely essential to prevent onions, potatoes and so on from germinating.
For all that, we are naturally in favour of the agreement we have now reached.
Goodness knows how hard it was to achieve this agreement, and we shall do everything in our power to ensure that those who buy these products actually know what they are buying.
If that can be achieved, then I believe we shall have established a good Community system.
I am pleased that progress has been made at long last, and at the end of the day it is almost satisfying, if not entirely so, that we have all received our dues.
