Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I quite agree that following the launch of the euro we need a more closely coordinated economic policy.
This is urgently needed if we are to round off the whole project and make it effective.
But I would warn against using the term 'counterpart'.
We do not want a counterpart to the European Central Bank; rather, we want to complement it.
We do not want a political counterpart that runs counter to the European Central Bank's search for stability, for that is something that is beyond dispute and irrevocable; nor do we support the attempts to undermine the Stability Pact through the policy mix.
I think we must make it clear that this complementary policy of coordination is the key to supporting stability, to making stability a prerequisite, to ensuring that stability is not one aim among many others; it is on this basis that we must pursue a sensible economic policy aimed at growth, progress and employment.
That is a different approach from the one Mrs Randzio-Plath put forward just now.
We also believe that the kind of social contract envisaged is not acceptable as it stands.
We want to see an approximation of social policies, but not to opt for a social contract that acts as a counterpart to the European Central Bank.
After all, until now we have been pursuing a sensible social policy based on minimum standards rather than harmonisation, and I believe that is an important aspect that we must not forget!
Mr President, allow me to make a final remark on external representation.
We must emphasise the need to upgrade the Commission's role, as Mr Herman also pointed out.
European economic and monetary union comes under the first pillar.
It is a Community task.
But the finance ministers are acting as though it were an intergovernmental matter, in terms of both external representation and the role they are taking upon themselves with the Euro-11 Council.
That is why Parliament should now make it clear that we will not allow a Community task to be watered down into an intergovernmental task, just to flatter the vanity of the finance ministers.
