Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are supposed to point the way institutionally.
Where do we stand, where do we want to go?
We are about to see the conclusion of the ratification procedure and the entry into force of the Amsterdam Treaty.
As we know, the last intergovernmental conference did not manage to resolve some of the important issues relating to the forthcoming enlargements.
So the German Presidency is seeking a procedural decision on the necessary institutional reforms at the summit this June, once agreement has been reached on the key questions of Agenda 2000 at the end of March.
The European Parliament outlined the scope and direction of these reforms in its Mendez/Tsatsos resolution.
In its programme of activities over the past year and a half the Committee on Institutional Affairs has clarified the direction to be pursued.
The result is the three reports we are debating today.
The Bourlanges report contains a resolution that departs from the norm.
It is not a list of demands but an important prospective document.
Its key concern is the need to move to majority decisions in more areas and to adjust the voting procedures in the Council so that it will retain its ability to act even after the forthcoming enlargements.
These tasks derive from the Treaty of Amsterdam and the positions the European Parliament has adopted thereon.
Let me say openly that in my view the significance of some of the details of today's resolution is a rather more illustrative one.
In the current stage of the European debates, the general guidelines require political authority.
In that way we and Jean-Louis Bourlanges will live up to our view of ourselves as giving impetus to the European integration process.
It follows that the next European Parliament will also have to debate the next round of institutional reforms in more depth.
Here we expect the Cologne European Council to consider our ideas too when it decides the timetable and methods of these reforms.
Jean-Louis Bourlanges has done very good preliminary work in this respect.
