Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like to thank you all for the work you have put into examining the Commission proposal on the market in wine.
And I would especially like to thank Mr Martin as rapporteur for his analysis of the proposal, and above all - and this has already been acknowledged by several speakers - for his efforts to achieve a compromise.
By virtue of all these efforts we have been able to ensure that the proposal for the wine sector will not slip behind the other Agenda 2000 reform proposals.
As you know, this proposal is intended to replace 23 existing Council regulations, to achieve simplification and to cover all basic areas, from the vine to the labelled product.
Although the final list of amendments is rather long, I am still pleased to see that there are many important subjects on which we are at one.
In particular, we are in agreement that quality is essential to maintain and improve the competitiveness of Community wine, and that the conversion measures planned should play an important part in achieving this objective.
We are also agreed that the market position requires more flexible administration of production potential.
There is also agreement that we must preserve the specific character of all Community wines and provide a legal basis for this by means of regulations on traditional winemaking methods.
Before I respond to your amendments in more detail, allow me to remind you once again of the seven objectives of the Commission's reform proposal.
First, we want to make the wine sector more competitive.
Second, we want to maintain the improved balance between supply and demand.
Third, we want to eliminate the availability of intervention as an artificial outlet for surplus production.
Fourth, we want to continue to maintain all traditional outlets for potable alcohol and other products.
Fifth, we want to accommodate regional diversity.
Sixth, we want to strengthen the role of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations.
And, seventh, we want to considerably simplify the legislative framework and make it more transparent.
There is a large degree of agreement on these objectives.
Some of your amendments suggest improvements in the measures we have proposed in order to realise these objectives.
In particular, we consider the new wording of the provisions on the creation of a legal framework for producer organisations and inter-branch organisations to be a very constructive proposal.
I hope that will answer Mrs Lulling's question.
We have already started to discuss this.
Other helpful amendments are those on the introduction of criteria for triggering crisis distillation, new rules for liqueur wines and a whole series of technical improvements.
However, there are also areas where we differ and I would like to discuss those in rather more detail today.
In order to give areas where production cannot keep pace with demand an opportunity for some limited expansion, the Commission is proposing an allocation of newly created planting rights totalling some 35 000 hectares.
Spread over a period of three years, this is nearly twice as much as the additional rights granted under the last two agriculture price packages.
Furthermore, the proposal that producers undertaking to grub up areas under vines will simultaneously be granted replanting rights will also lead to a considerable expansion in production potential.
This expansion could even be substantially greater than the 35 000 hectares which we are to achieve with the additional percentage.
So I cannot see any scope for us to go any further, as we would otherwise jeopardise the objective of balancing supply and demand.
In one amendment, there is a call for the inclusion of pure and simple renewal of vineyards in the restructuring measures.
I would like to remind you that the restructuring measures are intended to help to adjust production in certain problem areas to changes in market demand.
Of course we only have limited means at our disposal and we cannot therefore afford to finance measures which up to now have always been part of normal vineyard management.
Again on restructuring measures, you have suggested that restructuring costs outside Objective 1 areas should be cofinanced by up to 25 % by Member States.
I recognise that cofinancing is still under discussion, but a final decision on that will have to be taken as part of the Agenda 2000 package.
This therefore needs to be dealt with separately from the common organisation for wine, as part of the overall financing of Agenda 2000.
Certain other amendments raised doubts about the status quo as regards enrichment, especially enrichment by sugaring.
I have to agree with Mr Bébéar in this case: I think it is 150 years too late for us to start thinking about waging a new war between the southern and northern states.
So I believe that we are right in sticking to the various traditional enrichment methods or oenological practices.
As regards the amendments concerning the proposed crisis distillation measure, I am firmly convinced that the Commission's approach is the right one.
Compulsory measures are inappropriate in the more open market which has prevailed since the Uruguay Round, in which minimum prices can no longer be set, as the withdrawal of quantities of wine would simply result in making room for additional imports.
However, I can accept your proposal to incorporate additional criteria for triggering the measure in the Council text, particularly those on market prices.
Another amendment calls for the common market organisation to include measures for internal and external sales promotion.
I would like to be clear about this: I think that external sales promotion would be more effective in a horizontal regulation.
But I am of course in favour of external sales promotion measures.
However, I think that the various views of the Member States on the promotion of sales in the internal market and the overall stance of the Member States on the sale or promotion of sales of alcoholic drinks would make it difficult to include this in the common organisation of the market in wine.
With regard to lifting the current ban on producing wine from must originating from third countries - a subject several Members touched upon - I am conscious how strongly some Member States feel about this provision.
We have taken detailed advice from various experts, and have received clear legal opinions indicating that our WTO obligations quite simply require us to lift the present general ban.
The Commission has nevertheless explained to the Member States that our proposal will very probably include provisions on controls and labelling, including a scheme for depositing an import security, in order to guarantee that wine made from third country must cannot be regarded as Community wine.
Lastly, a number of amendments have been tabled about quality wines produced in specified regions.
I would like to make it clear that we intend to adopt the provisions of the current Council regulations in their entirety.
Nevertheless, we want to limit the Council regulations to general provisions and to cover the remaining provisions in implementing regulations.
With regard to maximum yields of quality wine, the Commission has already taken this opportunity to draw up a common scheme for cases where a maximum yield is exceeded, so that uniform conditions are guaranteed for Community producers of quality wine.
As long as Member States can settle this question efficiently themselves by means of transparent provisions at national level, then we could revisit this proposal and thus take account of Mrs Klaß's concerns.
Lastly, I would like to discuss an amendment affecting various parts of the proposal.
This calls for various Council decisions affecting market organisation to be subject to Parliament's opinion.
Although I regard this as an excellent decision-making procedure for major changes and above all changes of policy, it is simply too slow and cumbersome for purely technical market organisation measures, where decisions are needed so that we can react promptly to the market situation.
It is precisely for that reason that we have made a conscious decision to cover basic principles in a Council regulation, whilst decisions on market organisation are to be made at Commission level.
This is intended to maximise flexibility and ensure a rapid response.
I cannot therefore accept any amendments that would jeopardise this objective.
I hope that my comments have made the Commission's position on the amendments included in the report sufficiently clear.
In conclusion, I would like to stress once again the large measure of agreement which is apparent on many important questions.
