Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, the debate on reducing greenhouse gases is like a never-ending story.
Everyone talks about it, and everyone is convinced that it must happen, but when it comes to actually implementing it the picture is not so rosy.
Both reports are helpful steps in the right direction, but we need to be clear about what is fundamentally at stake here.
The amount of CO2 emitted every day world-wide is equivalent to the total amount for the 3 000 years before the industrial revolution.
If we extrapolate this figure to a whole year, we find that this corresponds to a period of 1 million years for every year.
In other words, every year we are releasing as much CO2 as was previously released in a million years of the world's history.
And these are scientific results.
No one can predict precisely how long the earth's atmosphere can sustain this, or what the long-term consequences will be.
No one disputes that the effects are already perceptible now.
The important thing is for the reduction targets to be met as quickly as possible.
In this context, the amendments to the Hautala report tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are crucial.
Technically speaking, it is certainly quite feasible to bring the measures forward by two to four years.
People often recommend switching from oil and coal to natural gas as a way of achieving the Kyoto objectives, but this is not a real solution.
It is true that compared with oil and coal, less CO2 is released during direct combustion of natural gas, but large quantities of methane escape at the exploration stage.
At the same time, an enormous amount of power is consumed in transporting energy from Siberia or Algeria to Europe.
The former Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs and current President of Georgia, Edvard Shevardnadze, has admitted that up to 50 % of methane gas transported escapes into the atmosphere.
These considerations also need to be taken into account if total greenhouse gases are to be correctly calculated.
Amendments Nos 2, 3 and 4 in the Fitzsimons report, which delete the words 'as far as possible', are particularly important.
Those Member States with no particular interest in reducing greenhouse gases could use these three words to avoid meeting their obligations in full.
