Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in his own inimitable way, the Commissioner has not only set out the problems but has also provided us with avenues to explore.
We are grateful to you, Commissioner, for your letter, which - at the last minute, if I may say so - enabled us to reach our decision on the KEDO project.
It might have come a little earlier, but we are pleased that you found the right approach along with our Three Musketeers.
These really are three committed Musketeers, who care about the interests of the people in North Korea and about this issue.
On behalf of my group I should like to offer my sincere thanks to Mr Tindemans, to Mr Brinkhorst and also to Glyn Ford.
Although you, as a practised diplomat, tread warily but with undoubted success along the path of rapprochement and cooperation with other countries, you will permit me, as a Member of Parliament who need not be quite so diplomatic, to point out that the KEDO project, like others, must ultimately be judged by the conduct of the government of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea in terms of its military activities and its humanitarian inactivity.
I do believe that the North Korean Government must finally provide conclusive evidence that its military activities do not pose a threat, particularly to its neighbouring states, and that they are not designed to pose a threat.
We call for access by independent inspectors to nuclear facilities, especially the underground facilities.
We also really ought to expect the North Korean Government to declare at long last that it will not undertake any more test launches without giving prior notice.
After all, Japan could not fail to perceive the totally unexpected test launch of a missile over Japanese territory as a threat.
I believe we must surely agree that a country such as North Korea which is looking for support from the international community must naturally conduct itself in such a way that it is not seen to threaten or act in a hostile manner towards other states.
So much for the military aspect.
As far as the humanitarian side is concerned, we are pleased to note, Sir Leon, that you have made progress on the question of providing food supplies for the population.
But to be honest, I distrust any statistics released by the North Korean Government on the extent of the famine in North Korea.
I certainly believe it to be essential that we keep in touch with the aid agencies on the ground, because I do not think that even this project can come anywhere near providing the volume of aid that is needed - and Mr Ford has given us some figures.
The fact that North Korea has money for military actions but no money to buy food for its people is a contradiction that we cannot tolerate if we care at all for the people of North Korea.
In that respect, I believe we should keep a very watchful eye on that situation, and we should expect the North Koreans to tell us the truth here and to assist us in ferrying supplies to the population, especially in the remote parts of the country.
