Madam President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, you rightly pointed out that this summit in Tampere is an Extraordinary Summit on the subject of making preparations for an area of freedom, security and justice.
In conclusion you also pointed out that prior to this - tomorrow and the day after - an Extraordinary Council Summit would take place, a meeting of Ministers for Justice and Ministers for Home Affairs in Turku.
That is why it is so important for us to discuss this subject today here in Parliament, too.
Against the background of this preparation meeting tomorrow and the day after in Turku and against the background of having to deal in Europe, unfortunately, with a rise in organised crime, drugs-related crime, the criminal trade in human beings and the like, it was incomprehensible to me that we should have to discuss in this Chamber whether we could even have this debate here in the European Parliament.
I am pleased, however, that we in the European People' s Party, together with the friends of security, have successfully been able to implement the initiative in this Chamber against the Social Democrat Group who did not want this discussion to take place here.
It is a matter of the possibility and the necessity of giving a clear sign here that we take the sphere of security and justice seriously, that the point is to prepare material for the Tampere Summit in the interests of the security and freedom of the citizens of Europe.
This is essential.
The Council keeps appearing here and putting forward great proposals.
I see that as very positive.
What is lacking is the translation of these into concrete action.
What became, for example, of the asylum paper which was discussed about a year ago?
What became of the strategic paper on asylum and migration submitted by the Austrian Presidency?
We are still waiting for the implementation of EURODAC.
We are waiting for the harmonisation of data which would make it possible to check which anti-drugs campaigns are successful and which are not.
Announcements must be followed by action.
This is what we are waiting for, concrete action in three areas.
Firstly, we are waiting for comprehensive strategies on the management of migration which, on the one hand, do not make excessive demands on the capacity of Member States and their citizens to integrate but, on the other hand, also help to avoid social conflict.
We are waiting for lasting instruments for joint solutions to deal with the influx of refugees, unified standards in the field of asylum procedures.
For us, burden sharing in the reception of refugees is indispensable, as indispensable as the preparation of on-site aid.
We need permanent solutions here.
What we also need - I am pleased to see that you mentioned them - are instruments to fight against illegal immigration, the criminal trade in human beings and the abuse of asylum.
We are therefore waiting for EURODAC to be quickly set up and the Schengen security system to become effective at all frontiers in Europe.
We are also awaiting effective measures in the fight against organised crime.
EUROPOL must be fully developed; it must be given operative authority.
Cross-border collaboration between police forces must be extended to provide co-operation in training and co-operation with applicant countries.
Naturally, we expect judicial co-operation to guarantee legal protection for citizens while, on the other hand, enabling speedy and effective criminal prosecution across borders, and that means accelerated procedures, the direct exchange of documents, harmonisation of criminal law systems and also assistance for the victims of crime.
The challenge has been issued to the Council.
We expect deeds, not fine words and summit photos.
