Mr President, Commissioner, on behalf of my group, may I convey our sincere congratulations to the rapporteur for his report.
In particular, I wish to thank him for guiding this report through the committee stage and now through the plenary stage within a fairly short time of our receiving the draft from the Commission.
I believe we all agree that the entry into force of this directive is a matter of extreme urgency, since it will put an end to the tangled mass of disparate legal provisions that are hampering the single market in the domain of electronic signatures, a crucial aspect of cross-border electronic transactions.
There are two major concerns of the Commission and the rapporteur that deserve particular support.
The first is their desire to strike a balance between the need to ensure that the new areas of business activity opened up by the electronic signature are not shackled and virtually nipped in the bud by excessively detailed and restrictive rules - for which we have had no shortage of proposals in Parliament - and the need to increase demand for these services and promote acceptance of electronic signatures by means of confidence-building measures.
I think we have jointly succeeded in establishing an even better balance than the one created in the Commission proposal, in particular by stipulating that providers of certification services should be independent and that accreditation systems should be voluntary, and by providing for the additional option of these accreditation systems being operated by non-governmental organisations too.
These provisions and the liability legislation, which we have done nothing to alter, may also be regarded as start-up aid for future providers of certification services or as a sign of trust in their ability to deliver.
At the same time, we expect them to make good use of these benefits.
Our second concern relates to the principle that whatever is legal offline must be legal online, and whatever is illegal offline must be illegal online.
We must help to establish this principle in all its implications.
This applies especially to the right of consumers to use a pseudonym for online transactions in order to preserve the anonymity that is customary when small everyday purchases are made in shops.
The consumer's right to conduct small electronic transactions under a pseudonym can also serve to prevent the creation of excessively detailed customer profiles.
Finally, I should like to appeal to the Commission to accept the amendments adopted by Parliament, to the rapporteur to reconsider his position with regard to Amendment No 26, and above all to the Council to come up quickly with a common position.
