Mr President, the Group of the European People's Party supports the joint resolution.
We consider it most important for the WTO rules to be observed.
It is absolutely unacceptable for the USA to threaten unilateral measures again European firms that really have nothing at all to do with the banana market organisation, with the dispute about it.
It is also entirely unacceptable for US policy to give in to the pressure from Chiquita and others.
We must support the Commission in its demand for respect for the WTO rules.
But the EU must also respect the WTO rules, which means that if we lose again at the next panel, we will have to revise the market organisation again.
I would ask the Commission to consider how we will react if that happens.
For myself, I would say that I do not regard this as a good organisation of the market.
It discriminates against producers in Latin America and it does not protect small producers against the multinationals, as is said so often, for there are small, independent producers in Latin America too.
In Ecuador, 60 % of producers have fewer than 20 hectares, and they are owned nationally, not owned Chiquita.
In Costa Rica there are fair-trade bananas, and the organisation of the market discriminates against all of them.
For Commissioner Pinheiro actually to say two weeks ago in regard to my report on bananas that the Commission should give the multinationals in the ACP states money to build up banana plantations is pure hypocrisy, if at the same time we say we want to defend the small producers against the big shots.
Perhaps quite different issues are at stake here.
But that should not prevent us from insisting again and again that the WTO rules must be respected and that we cannot accept the US attacks.
Nor can we accept the US views on hormone-containing meat and on the question of genetically modified organisms.
Here we must stand up for our legislation.
But should we find that our legislation is not compatible with the WTO rules, then indeed we have to revise it.
I would also draw Sir Leon Brittan's attention to the debate we have just held on the Bowe report.
There the committee proposed an amendment to the effect that we should take account of socio-economic criteria when authorising genetically modified organisms.
I believe that if that amendment is adopted and has an influence on the legislation, it will be a through ball for the Americans.
We have to prove on the basis of scientific evidence that our policy is the right one, and this applies both to the hormone issue and to GMOs.
We regard the precautionary principle as the foundation of our policy, not some arbitrary socio-economic criteria.
Here too we must take care we do not come up against new problems in the autumn.
