Madam President, in the annual economic report, which should be seen in conjunction with the basic principles of the Union's economic policy, we have been focusing time and again since 1994 on the question of whether we are actually doing everything possible at European level to combat unemployment and to stimulate investment and growth.
We have to conclude that in the past, old recipes have always formed the basis of EU policy and that there is a real need for us to break new ground.
We need to break new ground if we are ever to achieve full employment and the sort of growth that will sustain such a level of employment.
It is a fallacy to imagine that the causes of unemployment are purely structural, because one of our particular problems in the European Union is the way in which cyclically induced unemployment has very quickly hardened into structural unemployment.
That is why every effort must be made to kick-start the engine of growth, which is our only hope of reversing this unemployment spiral.
As an economic region, Europe has problems.
It must therefore launch a kind of action plan.
The annual economic report represents an excellent basis for that.
It would also do nothing but good if the Commission were to come round at long last to the idea of inviting independent experts to express their views on the state of the EU economy, as is done as a matter of course in many Member States, to give us more food for thought and thus enable us to develop even better proposals, because we certainly must develop proposals.
The Commission is now rightly saying, as the European Parliament has said for the past two years, that the European Union will not be spared the effects of crises in other parts of the world like some tranquil island enjoying peace and stability in the midst of a storm-tossed sea.
On the contrary, we in the European Union must take action, and we can only take action if the various players are finally brought around the table with a view to creating favourable macro-economic conditions in the European Union and above all to coordinating their policies.
Policy coordination, after all, is part of the magic formula that has produced growth, investment and employment in the United States.
The important thing for us now is to find out why the growth process is stagnating again, even though our inflation is at historically low rates and we are practically starting to pen its obituary.
We must ask ourselves why further economic development within a favourable supply-side framework has done little to stimulate the private sector and why investments are not being made.
That is really the central problem for us.
That is where we undoubtedly need coordination between the various players.
Above all, I believe that, alongside our very responsible trade unions, we need a monetary policy which can begin at long last to serve the purpose assigned to it in Article 105, as amended by the Maastricht Treaty.
Only then will it be possible to pursue additional new paths and to implement successfully new infrastructure projects in the European Union.
We need to engage the help of everyone who operates in this field, not just the finance ministers.
We need those who formulate monetary policies, we need management and labour, and we also need a bold approach at long last from the Commission and the Council if we are to achieve the modernisation of our infrastructure policy and the creation of a public-private partnership to provide investments that will effectively generate employment.
