Mr President, oh yes, they want to continue as before without realising that we have already reached the outer limits of pure supply-side economics.
What basically needs to be strengthened is the demand element - purchasing power and domestic demand.
This implies that regional policy must be taken as the starting-point, and strengthening the regions really means creating genuine stability.
We cannot create stability by means of an export-led economy; we have been trying to do that, and it has not worked.
What basically happens during a cyclical downturn is that our potential is underestimated.
And we do have potential: growth potential and employment potential in a whole range of new technological developments - in environmental technology and in the increasingly efficient use of energy.
Such potential is simply not being used because it is unconventional, because it is new.
Secondly, there is a lack of courage to admit mistakes, to appreciate that international financial crises would be manageable, that action could be taken to prevent them and that they could be averted, if those involved in the formulation of external trade policy were to recognise that economic and social policy need to be coordinated.
That relates not only to the EU, but also to the policy of the IMF.
We can see it in the Albanian crisis, for example, and we have seen what happened in Bulgaria.
One of the root causes of such problems is that the IMF takes absolutely no account of important social criteria in countries undergoing transformation processes.
In this context, may I also say that we can certainly take decisive action to curb currency speculation, which is also a destabilising factor, by showing some long-overdue willingness to introduce the Tobin tax.
It is a stabilising tax, and the stability it created would not only benefit countries in other parts of the world but would also bring stability for us in turn.
For that reason, all I can say to you is that we must introduce another approach here, and at this time I can only appeal to you to incorporate our amendments into the report so that it will contain at least some new ideas and provide a new perspective, thereby clearly signalling to all observers that we really do want more jobs.
