Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it certainly was a most interesting enterprise to examine the social legislation on transport on behalf of the House, for the different rates of development of liberalisation, which is far advanced in air, sea and road transport but lagging behind in rail and inland waterway transport, also affect the development of social legislation.
These nuances had to be taken into account in the report.
The social aspects on which the report focussed naturally concern working time, safety and health, qualifications and training, mobility in general and not least employment.
As an important economic branch in freight and passenger transport, the transport sector is clearly situated in a field of tension between the demands of competition on the one hand and safety and working conditions on the other.
In road and rail transport, it forms part of the public service and is also the basis for the mobility we want for all citizens; with 6 million employed and 3 million self-employed workers, it also represents an important branch of employment.
For these reasons we believe we must look at the social provisions in the field of transport separately, for in areas where liberalisation has occurred without the necessary minimum social rules, competition has had an adverse effect on working conditions and the safety of workers and therefore also of the public.
This unregulated competition not only has destructive social effects but also has questionable economic effects.
So the kind of realistic and pragmatic harmonisation proposed in this report does not conflict with sensible liberalisation measures - quite the contrary.
It will provide the stable foundation this economy needs for sustainable growth.
I regard that as the basis of this report, namely complementarity between liberalisation and social harmonisation.
Of course - and this is the first aspect on which the report focussed - dialogue with the social partners is vital in the preparation of all the measures to be taken.
In this context it must be ensured that they are fully represented; but even if the negotiations do not produce any results, the Commission will have to take legislative action and must not use the inconclusive negotiations as a reason for delay.
The directives on working time must now cover every sector of transport.
Road transport is a good example because it shows, on the one hand, that the Commission needs to take initiatives but on the other that this is not just a matter of driving time and rest periods.
In addition, the concepts of mobile and non-mobile workers and the various activities involved in the job need new, common definitions in all areas, especially road transport.
The flexibility proposed in this report must relate to the various aspects of transport, including working time, but must never call in question the principles of the health and safety of the employees and therefore also of the public.
Fifty thousand transport-related deaths - there is a report that speaks volumes about road safety.
Strikes that paralyse whole countries in a matter of hours, ferry disasters - these were signs of the need for action here.
We believe we should not wait for accidents or strikes to create new pressure for taking initiatives in areas where they are still needed.
But good rules are not enough in themselves.
They will only be effective and even revive the market if uniform checks are carried out and inappropriate behaviour carries uniform penalties in all European Union states.
No country may fall short of the minimum controls and Parliament must not be made to wait another four years for the reports evaluating these controls.
In this context, modern technology that can improve safety must be used to full advantage and in our view there are no economic interests, such as producers' interests, that allow or justify any failure to draw on technological progress.
I need only cite the example of the tachograph.
Compared to the technology available now, I would describe the tachograph that is still in use today as well-nigh medieval.
The report also places great emphasis on access to employment.
Qualifications and their mutual recognition are one of the cornerstones of transport policy, as is working time.
They guarantee a quality service and safe working conditions.
In air transport, for example, the Council seems reluctant to clear this hurdle, although the aircraft cabin crew perform important safety tasks.
Taking account of social aspects in the transport system also implies ensuring the mobility of the public in its various forms, which includes the needs of persons with reduced mobility.
This concerns the public service and, of course, calls for a very general discussion.
Let me conclude by commenting on the employment aspect of transport policy.
Every year our Member States spend more than EUR 180 billion on employment, which is why our committee believes that every proposed measure must always be examined as to its employment impact.
Finally, I would say that if we want to create a transport area in the European Community, in which working conditions are no longer detrimental to the health, safety and quality of life of its citizens, we must consent to a minimum of social harmonisation, for there are aspects we need to regulate that the market alone will never be able to regulate.
The Treaty of Amsterdam may offer us limited means of doing this.
So it is in our hands.
Thank you for your attention.
