Madam President, Mr Vice-President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of this debate is of the utmost importance.
It is not only a question of the ability of the European Commission to function but also of the credibility of the European institutions and I do not understand how the Vice-President-in-Office can reproach us, Parliament, for not having shown the necessary patience with the European Commission and how we should show more patience towards the Prodi Commission.
We have been extremely patient.
We want to cooperate well together but what we do not want are mutual remonstrations and accusations, rather we see our task as making sure that the European institutions, the Commission, Parliament and the Council of Ministers work in such a way that the citizens of Europe take this European Union seriously and give their approval.
Therefore, Mr Marín, it is totally inappropriate to include cautions in your address to Parliament and I do not really understand why you have done so.
There has been the impression in recent weeks that the European Union is solely associated with maladministration, nepotism and scandals.
This impression is incorrect in its general form and we reject it.
However, it should also be said that where there is maladministration, inappropriate behaviour or crime within the European Union, we must act decisively against this and bring about changes.
But it should also be said, and in this I agree with you, Commissioner, that the vast majority of officials in the Commission work in a professional manner and are taking the trouble to help bring about European unification and we should not defame the overwhelming majority of officials within the Commission.
We, the European People' s Party and European Democrats stand by these officials.
Rather, it is a question of taking the appropriate steps as a result of our mistakes.
Last Thursday, thanks to the support from other groups, my group was successful in getting the Committee on Budgetary Control to take overall charge for these questions as well as for questions relating to the report from the Committee of Wise Men, which was a decision taken by the conference of the chairmen of the political groups.
Therefore, there is also the option of discussing these issues in detail in the Committee on Budgetary Control and, as far as the address by Mr Kinnock is concerned, I say that there must also, of course, be a body where the actual steps which need to be taken can be discussed confidentially.
We are ready to go down this path with you should you be confirmed on Wednesday.
But far-reaching reforms are necessary.
Look at the case of van Buitenen.
The competent Commissioner in the hearings said that he had had absolutely nothing to do with Mr van Buitenen' s transfer.
What sort of an administration is it where the Commissioner responsible has nothing to do with a matter as serious as this?
This is a highly political matter.
The Commissioner should deal with it himself.
Then there is another aspect.
What should this poor Paul van Buitenen, this man who, as it were, found himself in a crisis situation that was beyond the law, do now?
Mr Kinnock suggested that, in future, such accusations should be passed on to OLAF, and I agree, but a small parliamentary trust body containing between three and five MEPs should also be created to which Commission officials or officials from other institutions can turn when it comes to exposing illegal conduct of a grave nature.
I believe a trust body of this sort would contribute to making corrective adjustments.
It is a question of the responsibility of the Commission to the European Parliament.
We will still have to discuss this in detail with Commission President-designate, Romano Prodi, and we will have to come to some decisions.
Mr Prodi has certainly already made far-reaching concessions and I call upon you in the Commission to refrain from any form of arrogance towards the European Parliament in future, while providing Parliament with any information that we have a right to.
It is naturally understood that this may also include confidential documents.
It has to be made clear who in the Commission has responsibility for what.
Only if there is responsibility will there also be the necessary pressure for correct behaviour.
The citizens, not only the Parliament, have a right to receive an answer from the Commission in a reasonable timeframe if they address the Commission.
I know from my parliamentary work that citizens have to wait months, sometimes years, for an answer, and if they do then receive one, no explanation for the answer is given.
This has to change, but we will discuss this together.
We in the European Union find ourselves in a difficult phase, and it is my conviction that we need a Commission that is capable of taking action.
Therefore, we must say to this Commission that is still in office, but also to the Commission which may perhaps gain our trust on Wednesday, that we are ready to cooperate extensively and that we need convincing solutions.
If the Commission is successful, then this means success for us all.
I therefore wish the Commission this success but please do not reproach us for showing impatience or for doing one thing and not doing another.
Let us cooperate, Commission and Parliament, in the interests of unifying our continent.
We, the European People' s Party and European Democrats are resolved to going down this path with you in the interests of Europe, if this is something you want.
(Applause)
