Mr President, since our debate on the second phase of the Leonardo da Vinci programme on 5 November last year, much has changed.
What remains the same is the objective.
We want to supplement Member States' European vocational training actions and achieve complementarity between them.
With a view to making them more effective, we are seeking to network them with other training programmes such as Socrates and Youth, as also with Community initiatives and the Structural Funds.
Vocational training makes an ideal contribution to innovation, to creating new jobs and to achieving long-term competitiveness on world markets.
However, there are two preconditions: firstly, integrated systems and, secondly, adequate funding.
Various key concepts remain topical, such as promoting a higher level of vocational training, integrated in our lifelong learning strategy, equal opportunities for men and women, the removal of all forms of discrimination, qualified access to further training and paying special attention to re-training, to the reintegration of marginalised, disabled and older workers and the constructive dialogue with non-governmental organisations.
It also remains most important substantially to boost the resources for Leonardo, as we have called for.
Nobody would seriously question that need, given the new scope, the new duration and the new, much expanded field of application of the programme.
What has, however, changed drastically, is how the programme is implemented, for one of the reasons for the European Commission's resignation early last week was the mismanagement of Leonardo.
The ad hoc committee of inquiry, which is known as the Committee of Wise Men, confirmed in full the findings of the European Parliament's Committee on Budgetary Control.
It found a large number of irregularities which, it said, 'must be considered an incitement to corruption'.
The tender procedures were not evaluated on a neutral basis.
Instead, organisations that had close links with the clients were given preference as contractors or contracting partners.
Think of the times interested parties have complained to us, the responsible Members of the European Parliament, about a number of dubious decisions!
Mrs Cresson omitted to inform the President of the Commission or the European Parliament of them.
As the Wise Men's Report also says, and I quote: 'It is elementary 'common sense' that the Commission should have supported the Parliament's decision-making process.'
Facts were indeed kept from us that could have served as background on how to structure the successor programme.
I call on Sue Waddington, who has once again done an excellent and detailed job, to support the PPE Group's amendments.
We want the Commission, when it implements Leonardo, not to turn to outside bodies but to restructure, Mr Liikanen, and turn to staff from its own ranks.
It must remain responsible, must not leave the right to act to others and must undertake to monitor actions and resources carefully.
The tasks of national administrative authorities - and this is our second amendment - must also be performed by internal staff and not by third parties.
On the basis of these amendments the Commission should manage to create transparency and ensure precise supervision of tasks and expenditure.
This new departure is worth it for the sake of the vocational future of hundreds of thousands of young Europeans!
