Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, as rapporteur for the rules governing Members of Parliament, I would like to make a couple of observations.
In December 1998, the European Parliament adopted a statute with a qualified majority, a decision which was confirmed in May of this year by an overwhelming majority.
We therefore have a statute, all that is now required is the approval of the Council.
It is not enough that the Council submits an alternative draft.
That is no solution.
I would like to remind you that the European Commission has unequivocally approved the statute of the European Parliament.
Permit me to make a few observations regarding the principles which will govern our actions.
One thing is for sure; this statute will not be drawn up by the press, be it the Swedish press, the British press, the Dutch press or that of any other country.
Not even the highly regarded French daily Libération will write this statute, nor shall we allow ourselves to be governed by a statute produced by civil servants.
We are not children who can be taken to task; we shall not be harassed by civil servants.
Therefore, I would recommend that the Finnish Presidency gently shelves the Council document.
We will not place ourselves in the Babylonian Captivity of the Council.
We will preserve the Parliament's autonomy and reject any type of guardianship over the Parliament.
Applause
We shall make constructive proposals to the Finnish Presidency.
I look forward to initial talks taking place at the beginning of September.
My request to the Finnish Presidency is that the talks, which will be necessary, be conducted at the highest possible political level.
In this way, I believe the success we are after will be achieved as soon as possible.
Mr President, we are pinning high hopes on the Finnish Presidency.
We are also pinning our hopes on the Finnish Presidency as far as the European Parliament's involvement in drawing up the catalogue of fundamental rights is concerned.
The Council cannot seriously be considering the option that only two members of Parliament collaborate on this catalogue of fundamental rights.
Without a minimum of 15 delegates, an imbalance will exist between the European Parliament and the national Members of Parliament, where such a balance is required.
Applause
