Mr President, time and again I am filled with admiration for Commissioner Monti and the patience with which he is trying to disengage the brakes on coordinating tax policy in Europe.
He really deserves the utmost respect for this.
Where coordinating tax policy is concerned, the main objective is to limit manoeuvring and distortions on the capital markets.
It is a question of reducing harmful tax competition between the Member States, and part of creating equal economic opportunities is to make sure that investors are subject, at least in terms of approach, to a similar tax burden.
Seen in this light, the Commission proposal is definitely a step in the right direction, and this is accordingly supported for the most part by our rapporteur, Mr Pérez Royo.
But it is precisely because we agree on the principles in this Parliament - at least in what we say out loud - that some of the amendments adopted by the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy are more than just ideas to curb the development of European tax policy or precautionary measures.
However, seeking to reduce the rate of withholding tax from that proposed by the Commission to 15 % or 10 % falls into the 'back to square one' category.
In this context, we should not forget that there are some countries in the European Union with a 25 % tax rate.
My country is one of them.
Ultimately, it is also necessary to reduce the imbalance between the taxation of wages and salaries on the one hand and capital on the other.
That is the goal we have set ourselves.
Moreover - and this is also worth mentioning - exempting Eurobonds from the tax arrangements, as intended or desired by several financial centres in Europe, would give the securities market a considerable advantage over other savings instruments and would substantially limit the scope of the directive.
With 'a little less, please' as our motto, we will not be able to make any progress on coordinating tax policy.
You will need to be patient, Commissioner!
