Mr President, the Amsterdam Treaty has been in force for just a few days.
It finally gives the European Parliament more rights with which to carry out one of the most important duties of a parliament, namely involvement in decision-making and controlling the other institutions.
It was precisely this which justified our decision a year ago to agree to just the Interim Agreement with Mexico, and to give our assent to the Global Agreement only once negotiations on all parts of the Treaty had come to a close.
We did not want to give the Commission carte blanche .
Incidentally, these were the words used by our rapporteur, Mrs Miranda de Lage, to justify the decision.
The Mexican Parliament also only approved the agreement on the condition that it will be consulted again once the negotiations have come to a close.
It is therefore not fair to claim that the Mexicans accepted the agreement a long time ago.
There has been no change in the situation since.
There has been no new Commission paper on which we could make a decision.
The negotiations will last for a long time yet, and civil society in Mexico is extremely dissatisfied with this.
Various parties, such as the PRD, which has also written to us, and the Greens in the Mexican Parliament do not agree with the way the negotiations are taking place.
They insist on the need for a fundamental change in direction and strongly urge us not to give our assent yet.
In my view, it would therefore be completely irresponsible towards European citizens, but also towards our Mexican partners, to hand over control now.
Why are we agreeing now to something that does not yet exist in its entirety?
It makes no difference whatsoever for the Commission to be able to continue negotiations.
But I am standing up for the rights of a parliament to take a vote on something which must in principle exist as a whole.
How could we justify to the public the fact that we are campaigning for more rights for Parliament, although we are saying that we do not want to make any decisions, and instead want simply to give carte blanche ?
It is precisely this which I do not understand.
I must say one more thing on this matter; it is after all the last round of speeches this evening.
Obviously I am in favour of an agreement with Mexico, and this applies to the entire Green Group.
I hold my colleague, Mrs Miranda de Lage, in high esteem and I also have the highest regard for her work.
However, this problem of how a parliament makes a decision is of fundamental importance for me.
It is just about this and nothing else.
