Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, we have been given an introduction here to the difficult questions facing the Cologne summit, which have to be resolved in our common interest.
I am particularly grateful for the fact that so much emphasis has been put on the concept of the common foreign, security and defence policy, for Kosovo shows us how necessary it is that we achieve results in terms both of prevention and of the EU's ability to act.
If the German Presidency intends to make appropriate use of its dual presidency of the European Union and of the WEU, that is to be welcomed.
But it is also important to use the potential offered by the Treaty of Amsterdam in regard to implementing the common foreign and security policy for the genuine good of the Community and not to continue following the old methods.
Belatedly, although not too late, Russia is also being brought into the process again.
A common Russia strategy, which would establish a balance on this continent and help bring about solutions, is welcome.
But here we must not forget that in view of the many disputes we are currently facing in, for example, the field of trade, we should also improve relations with the United States.
Mr Verheugen, I would therefore cordially request you to ensure that the US-EU summit in Bonn on 19 June is also used to strengthen the partnership and cooperation between the USA and Europe, to improve its shape and also to involve the parliaments in the appropriate way.
Given the problems of unemployment, the Employment Pact is a most important subject.
However, we will be looking very carefully at the outcome of the summit and examine the distribution of tasks in terms of the role of the national states in employment policy and the European role, so as to avoid giving the mistaken impression that Europe is responsible in the wrong area.
We will also make sure we do not have a repeat at European level of the Lafontaine policy mix between monetary, financial and wage policy.
I do not know what you meant by saying the European Central Bank should be involved here like the social partners and I hope I misunderstood you.
The European Central Bank must play an entirely independent role and cannot be a component of a strategy put together by the governments.
Let me make a final remark.
Mr Méndez de Vigo will have more to say about this.
The institutional reform must be achieved in cooperation with the European Parliament, which must certainly have a better role to play at the intergovernmental conference than it did in Amsterdam, where it remained rather on the sidelines.
I hope the German Presidency of the Council will manage to ensure that.
We must make the European Union capable of enlargement by extending majority decision-making.
If in a second stage constitutional and other such questions are discussed, then it must be made clear that this will not delay the enlargement timetable.
But we should keep these questions on the agenda and I can only congratulate you on the idea that we should formulate a strategy for drawing up a charter of basic rights.
If that could be achieved in cooperation with the European Parliament and the national parliaments, it would do a great deal for the people and for the identity of the European Union.
