Mr President, the history of the regulation on organic farming began in 1992.
Initial discussions led to the regulation on plants, then followed the commitment by Parliament and then by the Commission that animals would be covered a year later.
It is now 1999, and as the President-in-Office said earlier, all we have to do now is to adopt it.
But please, Mr Funke, do not put urgency before quality since we have been working on this for so long already!
What is the current situation?
We are now at the stage of the legislative procedure where Parliament has adopted a position on this issue.
The Commission has adopted some of Parliament's amendments.
The Council requires a unanimous vote to reject this modified proposal containing Parliament's amendments, if the Commission keeps to its proposal.
I would like to discuss two points: tethering and gene technology.
Tethering is not mentioned at all in the Commission's proposal.
This means that it will have to be inserted later and the Commission will have to be prepared to compromise so that this problematic issue can be covered, because it is a subject that has been neglected completely, at least for cattle.
I would ask you not to insist excessively on animal welfare, which essentially has nothing to do with appropriate ways of keeping animals.
Appropriate tethering is perfectly possible, but exact details must be given, and we must not throw the baby out with the bath water.
For the use of genetically modified organisms the principle is different.
The Commission adopted the proposal that we do not want the use of genetically modified organisms to be included in this regulation and therefore in organic production.
This is therefore a ban.
There is a ban on using genetically modified organisms, and it should remain.
Yet we have the problem of what to do with potentially contaminated organisms.
This is where we begin to weaken.
With regard to tethering I am in favour of a moderate approach, but here I am in favour of a strict approach, because if we allow contamination and then in the novel foods regulation, to which it relates, allow a certain percentage that need not be labelled, we are allowing the use of genetically modified organisms through the backdoor; if tests then show that products do indeed contain such organisms, we will lose our markets.
Here I would ask that we proceed with caution.
Furthermore, the question of contamination is dependent on what measures are taken to ensure that other areas are not contaminated during release experiments.
I would ask for a very strict approach to be adopted here, Commissioner.
It is in your hands.
If you do not seek a compromise with the Council on this, the Council's hands are tied.
We may postpone the matter once again, but then we must not act in haste but give priority to quality.
