Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the case of Romania too the Committee on External Economic Relations is pleased to note that the necessary approximation of Romanian competition provisions to EU rules and the cooperation between competition authorities can develop satisfactorily.
As you know from the other reports, this relates to the implementation of the basic principles of competition policy, the responsible authorities, the consultation procedure in cross-border cases and administrative cooperation.
For the rest, the Commission's position on Romania's application for accession shows that, on the whole, Romania's competition rules are compatible with the EU rules.
So from the point of view of the Committee on External Economic Relations I can therefore propose that we approve the Council's common position in the case of Romania too.
One particularly positive aspect is that, as in other areas, the Romanian administration is cooperating very closely with EU authorities in regard to the competition provisions and is taking the corresponding legislative steps.
However, these should include modernisation of the public administration, where there is still some room for improvement.
The task of the Romanian administration is simplified by the fact that Romanian executive officials have already received intensive training under the PHARE programme.
But I would like also to look today at the efforts made by Romania and the need for Romania to come closer to the European Union economically and to gradually adopt the acquis communautaire .
The majority of economic reforms still remain to be undertaken by the Romanian Government.
It must focus on the further and long-delayed privatisation of large state enterprises and on improving the framework conditions for founding small and medium-sized enterprises.
To date, only some 20 % of firms have gone into private ownership.
That is the only way the competition rules, which will then become rules common to Romania and to the European Union, have a chance to really apply and to function.
The events of the last few days show that the Romanian Government is making serious efforts to make up the deficit in regard to public enterprises and to close down the least profitable banks and telecommunications companies.
At the same time, it must give greater support than before to the establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises by providing state financing incentives, drawing also on the European Union's programmes.
Another ray of hope is the fact that Romania and the European Union are cooperating increasingly closely on the joint plans for the use of the Trans-Caucasian mineral resources, especially those in Azerbaijan and the Central Asian Republics, for the benefit of the European market.
Romania can play a key role both in the transport and in the further processing of oil from the Caspian Sea, as I pointed out very specifically in my report early in 1997 on economic cooperation between the EU and Azerbaijan.
If they were properly modernised, the plant in Constanza, the largest Black Sea port, and the refineries in Ploesti on the lower Danube could put Romania in a position to establish a new transport route, process a wide spectrum of oil products and thus become one of the top suppliers to the European market.
The more active the role Romania plays in the joint projects between the EU and the Trans-Caucasian republics, especially Georgia and Azerbaijan, in relation for instance to transport networks including energy transport networks, the sooner it can realise its potential in a European market that will soon become larger with the accession of Hungary, Poland and Slovakia and thus improve its balance of trade and balance of payments.
The products in question can then be transported via the Danube and the Rhine-Main-Danube Canal to the centre of Europe and then onwards to the Benelux countries and to France.
Romania must gear its geographical, industrial and also technological potential, including the Danube transport infrastructure, much more closely to the European market and fully exploit its Danube waterway and rail service capacities.
The planned high-speed TGV-ICE train link from Paris via Strasbourg, Karlsruhe, Munich and Vienna to Budapest is to be extended in a few years' time via Timisoara-Arat to Bucharest.
So on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations - and here I agree with Mr Bernard-Reymond's conclusions on Romania's accession prospects - I would like to encourage Romania resolutely to pursue the road to Europe, following the example of other Eastern European countries, to overcome its temporary weaknesses and to make full use of its development potential as a great Eastern European country.
We certainly urge the Romanian people, its parliament and government, not to give up in spite of the current difficulties and to do their utmost to achieve closer economic cooperation with the EU.
They have our support in that endeavour.
