Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a delegation from the US Congress here in the House.
It is apparent to all that our debate is highly topical and that global problems need to be tackled at a global level.
Although the European Parliament can be criticised for perhaps proceeding with considerable caution and deliberation in certain matters, I nevertheless believe that the fundamental criterion for the European Parliament is to produce results and to benefit those who need it.
In this House we have already dealt on a number of occasions with turbulences in the world of international finance.
In Europe we now have the euro, which has brought with it a new stability, at least in the euro zone of the eleven and thus in the European Union as a whole.
Through the single market we have made progress in respect of border tariff problems, and we are also moving in the right direction in the area of subsidies.
That is why I am very grateful to my colleagues in the House for providing the opportunity for us to devote our attention once again to this issue, in particular to the repercussions in Europe.
Entire sectors of industry, such as the pharmaceutical industry, ship building and, above all, the steel industry, are facing new challenges.
Our opportunities for export in these areas have shrunk dramatically.
Exports to Asia, for example, have fallen by 56 %.
By contrast, imports into the single market from this region have risen sharply.
Import escalation rates of up to 700 % are currently being quoted.
For the first time the European Union has become a net importer of steel.
We must work together to reverse this trend, in the interests of those industries affected and of their employees.
In the light of these developments, I am delighted that we can today welcome to Strasbourg a delegation from the United States Congress.
The USA is facing similar, if not quite so far-reaching, challenges.
We can only get to grips with these developments through cooperation, joint strategies and a joint problem-solving approach.
In this way each country will take on its share of the responsibility, but always in relation to the actual burdens and opportunities.
In this context, free access to markets has a crucial role to play.
Trade-policy instruments naturally include antidumping measures and WTO procedures in places where state interference is pushing down the price of exports.
But such measures can only be regarded as a last resort.
In the long term we need constructive transatlantic dialogue because only if we preserve free trade in goods and observe the rules of fair competition on both sides of the Atlantic, will we be able to guarantee a stable global environment.
