Madam President, Mr Funke, we are almost namesakes!
The Fantuzzi report, on which I should like to say a few words, has indeed received a great deal of attention - at any rate, 93 amendments have been tabled by the groups, all of which are, of course, justified to a greater or lesser extent.
Mr Fantuzzi has done a good job - I have to grant him that - and he also always wears the nicest ties in Parliament, because they are made in Italy.
But he has advocated a 20 % reduction in prices, which I oppose, and I shall tell you why: 20 % is far too much for farmers to withstand.
We can only just, with gritted teeth, withstand a 10 % reduction, above all because only 50 % of this will be compensated.
In my region in Baden-Württemberg, there are not any of these holdings which Mr Rehder always claims are receiving millions.
Perhaps he should show them to me.
Not in my region in any case, where the situation is quite the opposite; farmers have a hard time of it there, and it would be nothing short of insulting to reproach them constantly for being some of the rich ones.
If we want to be competitive on the world market, Mr Funke, then we also need to know whether farmers are able to withstand this.
I wonder, however, with whom we are supposed to compete.
With countries where wages are only 10 % of ours?
Where the environment is being damaged?
I reject conditions of competition of this kind.
That is also why we must reject price reductions of 20 %.
Price reductions alone are not the right way to help agriculture in the long term; instead, we need more intelligent solutions, if we want to hold on to our farmers.
In practice, therefore, we also need to promote oil plants and protein crops - I fully agree with Mr Fantuzzi there - and we need to promote energy and industrial crops.
There is a shortage of these crops on the markets, and we need better support for them so that industry, and the processing plants we have now set up, can also source these products in the future.
If we promote these crops, they will enrich ecological diversity, while at the same time this would have the advantage of our not concentrating solely on cereals, cereals which we cannot sell as it is.
By constantly reducing prices, we should not turn our agricultural producers into whipping boys - it only serves to depress farmers.
After all, there is 1.5 pfennigs' worth of wheat in a bread roll, and a bread roll costs 70 pfennigs.
After the reform it will probably cost 80 pfennigs, despite the Commissioner's reducing the price of wheat by 20 %.
I cannot explain that to anyone, Mr Fischler.
Can you?
Please let me have the recipe, and then I can go to the people and say that this is as it should be.
Two thirds of EU governments are led by Social Democrats, and they are unable to accept Mr Rehder's proposals.
Why then, Mr Funke, are the two thirds not saying: Mr Rehder is right, we will adopt this agricultural policy?
I would take advantage of his claim that 20 % of farmers receive 80 % of the aid, but I am not even sure if he really knows what he is talking about.
In the future I should like information which is a little more specific, because that is a sound bite which is doing the rounds and which disavows agriculture ...
Heckling
... perhaps in many other regions too: I have also seen holdings of this kind in Andalusia, Mr Colino.
It does not irritate us when the information is specific, but it should be specific, and not delivered as a sound bite; otherwise we will also have to investigate in Lower Saxony, to see whether all is well there, that is quite clear.
We reject sound bites, Mr Funke - I agree with you there - and instead we should call a spade a spade.
Help us out of our plight, and afterwards I will shake your hand again, because having the name Funke is not such a bad thing after all, is it?
