Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the present proposal for a regulation is certainly to be welcomed.
The hopes of many patients suffering from rare diseases rely on our obtaining a regulation on orphan drugs in Europe too as soon as possible.
We should be guided by the experiences of the USA and Japan.
We should also learn from experience.
In that sense, Mr Cabrol's report proposes a series of improvements to the Commission proposal, although I do have problems with some of the proposed amendments.
I believe it is most important that we also include tropical diseases in Amendments Nos 1 and 2.
It is important for Europe to look further than the end of its own nose and also to consider people suffering from tropical diseases.
That is not necessarily the case under this regulation, but we must create an instrument to do so very quickly.
I have problems with the amendments that impose additional obstacles on industry in regard to obtaining orphan drug status for a particular medicine.
This applies, for instance, to Amendment No 18, on which I would be interested to hear the Commission's view.
My impression is that if we siphon off the revenue obtained by industry after the ten-year period, that will in turn reduce the incentive to invest in the first place and I would be interested to know whether things really work in the USA in the way suggested in that amendment.
Personally I doubt it.
Finally, I want to raise the question of diagnosis, which we have already had occasion to consider in committee.
I believe I can say from my own experience that particularly in the case of genetically-related diseases - which after all means most of the rare diseases - the patients are waiting for prevention and treatment while we, if we only have diagnosis but no corresponding prevention or treatment, sometimes actually produce problems.
That is why I personally am in favour of giving priority to treatment and only supporting diagnosis if treatment or prevention are also available.
For the rest, however, we should certainly support Mr Cabrol's report and the proposal for a regulation and should not jeopardise the entire project by quarrelling about details.
