Madam President, I shall follow the lead of my honourable colleague Brian Simpson and thank Mrs Schmidbauer for her cooperative approach to the preparation of this report.
Regrettably she has arrived at the wrong conclusions, as I must now explain on behalf of my group.
We in the Group of the European People's Party must reject the Commission's strategy of introducing a uniform system of charging for all modes of transport on the basis of so-called marginal social cost.
The fact is that the system of marginal social cost proposed by Neil Kinnock, the Socialist Commissioner for Transport, clearly emerged as an objectively unsuitable method of infrastructure charging when the Committee on Transport and Tourism consulted with scientists and transport specialists on 17 February 1999.
On the one hand it takes insufficient account of the construction, capital and maintenance costs for the transport infrastructure, while on the other hand it indiscriminately imposes a blanket charge to cover so-called external costs such as the cost of environmental pollution, traffic jams and accidents.
We are prepared to discuss external costs.
That is why we in Parliament called on the Commission back in January 1997 to provide us with scientifically demonstrable assessments of external costs and how they can best be recouped; these assessments were to be presented for each individual mode of transport.
The Commission, however, chose to shirk that responsibility.
It has not substantiated the external costs or outlined any procedures to us, but has come up with a new magic formula and now wants to do everything on the basis of marginal social cost.
But this magic formula, as the hearing with the scientists and experts showed, is unsuitable.
In other words, this whole approach is built on sand.
A second reason why the Commission approach should be rejected is that it is designed to be quite systematically devised and implemented in three steps, thereby deliberately preserving the distortions of competition between modes of transport and between companies in the various Member States.
This means that existing distortions will not be eliminated, even though they actually ought to have disappeared by 1 January 1993, the date when the single market was supposed to take effect.
In practice, however, we still have completely different oil duties, road taxes and so forth.
That distorts competition, and the aim of the Commission's approach is to preserve this disparity for several years to come.
We reject that.
The recommendation of the Red and Green majority in the Committee on Transport and Tourism, Mrs Schmidbauer, is nothing short of reckless, going further than even the Commission has ever gone by calling for the inclusion of private cars in this new special system on the basis of Community law and not, as is customary in such cases, on the basis of national legislation.
Mrs Schmidbauer, my colleague Mr Ferber was absolutely right.
This system, if you think it through to its logical conclusion, means purely and simply that private cars would also be liable for road tolls in Germany.
I do not believe the Austrian system is worth copying.
In my opinion, on the basis of all the studies that have been conducted in this field, it is crystal clear that private motorists, through the excise duty on their petrol and through road tax, are already paying the tolls with which it is intended to burden them.
By broadening this system, Mrs Schmidbauer, we should quite simply be giving Member States the opportunity to impose even higher charges on private motorists.
It also says in your report that, besides private cars being incorporated into the new charging system, an even heavier financial burden should be placed on motorists in sensitive areas - these include mountainous regions, but they also include all the major cities, such as Paris, Hamburg and Frankfurt.
Your approach cannot work; if it were implemented, it would only induce many Member States, as Mr Ferber said, simply to fleece the motorist once again.
We reject that.
Applause from the PPE Group
