Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I believe we are aiming at two major objectives with this directive.
First, we want to dispose of these eight million vehicles properly and, secondly, we want to dump as few as possible as landfill.
The question is: how do we achieve that?
I believe that first we must guarantee take-back free of charge to the last owner, and for several reasons, one of which is of course social.
For it is surely not acceptable to penalise the last owner in this way.
Many others have had the benefit of this car; many others have driven it.
The manufacturers sold it, of course, so they also benefited from it.
So if we take this approach we must distribute the cost fairly among everyone and not just foist it on the last owner.
That is why I say: no charge for the last owner.
How the Member States apply that is of course their business.
There is the Dutch system, there is the German system, the French system - I do not want to lay down any rules.
It is the principle that concerns me.
And there is a second reason.
What, I ask you, is happening today in countries where disposal is either self-financing or is cost free?
In those countries used cars are stored illegally or exported to the east.
Surely that cannot be our waste-disposal policy!
In Germany some 50 % of used cars are transported in an exodus to the east.
So it is quite clear to me that we must insist on freedom of charge.
Nor will that spell the death of small and medium-sized enterprises.
After all, what does the motor industry do in the case of services, of supply contracts?
It invites tenders and there is competition.
The same will apply to the recovery of old cars.
However, and this is my second point, I believe we must draw a distinction between old and new cars.
After all, we cannot expect a car that was built 20 years ago to satisfy today's requirements.
That would be like saying that a 20-year-old car had to meet the Euro 4 standard for 2005 under the current legislation on exhaust gas.
So we must ensure that as few old cars as possible are dumped, but we certainly cannot lay down what quota is to be recovered in what way.
Just imagine in real life: an old car is taken to the shredder, goes through the shredder; at most you can determine the weight before and after, but not how the individual materials are used - that is quite absurd.
It would mean that the very people who keep fighting bureaucracy would have to set up an enormous monitoring system for old cars which would be impossible to verify.
I think we should only decide on matters that we can also guarantee and verify.
So for old cars we can restrict the materials that may be dumped, but not set a sub-quota on how they may be used.
For new cars, however, which are being manufactured now, we need an ambitious system to ensure that they are as recycling-friendly as possible.
So in that case I am in favour of a type approval that lays down such quotas.
There we can carry out checks, as we do with the crash test, as we do for exhaust gas emissions.
For new cars we must apply stringent reuse and recycling requirements.
After all, the question of application is the key question.
Mr Florenz said, in his nice way, that we would be taking a softer line and the directive would only apply from the year 2020.
Let me tell him, that is total rubbish!
We say the directive should apply immediately, and to all cars.
Regardless of how they are serviced, regardless of any spare parts they contain - all cars must be taken back and recovered free of cost at once, not just in 2005, as the Commissioner proposes.
So we are taking a more stringent line.
Secondly, we say that the type approval rules as from 2005 must provide in precise terms that new cars must be recycling-friendly.
That too makes this legislation more stringent.
That means, to put it mildly, that it is not right of Mr Florenz to say that we would be watering down these Commission proposals in any respect at all.
On the contrary, we are following a different system.
But I am firmly convinced that we are tightening up the Commission proposal for the sake of environmental protection and consumer protection and moving it in the right direction.
It is quite obvious to me that we need clarification on the question of heavy metals, which is why we must now make it clear once and for all in what areas we want or do not want heavy metals.
