Mr President, this evening we have a veritable marathon of a debate to complete on discharge reports.
Six reports are on the agenda.
I will not comment on all of them, but will turn to the first, Mr Elles's report, which is not actually a discharge report because it proposes closing the accounts for 1996, and I believe that this is right.
We need to find a way to bring this process to an end, although I do believe that discharge was not given here, because if we look at the result of December's vote, it is clear that the points made previously in support of the decision, the positive decision put forward by the Committee on Budgetary Control, were rejected by the plenary.
That means that no discharge was granted.
Our Rules of Procedure were awry.
Now they have been amended, and there is no need for these matters to arise again.
We have a precedent for not granting discharge, the 1982 budget, for which the accounts were subsequently closed in 1985.
That is how we should proceed here; we should, however, also bear in mind all the consequences which this has had politically.
That is why it does not make any sense from a political point of view to grant discharge at this stage, because we do not have a Commission in office any more.
It has resigned.
Nevertheless, there will be no need for us to condemn everything that the Commission has done and neither do we wish to do so.
Nor have we ever implied that Commissioners were guilty of being directly involved in criminal activities.
No, but we have established that there is a need for restructuring and that new areas need to undergo a series of reforms which will make us in the European Union fit for the next millennium.
In this respect, this crisis, which began with the discharge or refusal of discharge for 1996 and the continuation for 1997 - for which we are not recommending discharge either this week, but postponement of discharge - was a necessary crisis, if we think of the positive lessons which we have learnt from it, and which we would have liked to pass on to this Commission, Mr Liikanen.
But that is not how it has turned out.
We all know what has happened.
In both reports, Mr Elles's report, and here I am also bringing in our rapporteur for 1997, Mr Brinkhorst, two points really do need to be emphasised: we have not voted on conditions for giving discharge; we have annexed working documents.
This is an unusual procedure, but I believe that it was the right approach to take, and these documents contain the suggestions - and indeed the demands - which we are passing on to the future Commission.
I hope that the new Parliament and the new Commission will make use of them.
With your permission, I will just add a word to our rapporteur, Mr Fabra Vallés.
He has produced a very accurate report for the other institutions.
I do think, however, and here I also have the support of the rapporteur, that we must carry out the same controls here and apply standards in our own House which are just as tough as the ones we have imposed on the Commission.
That is why the Council and the Commission, but also Parliament, must abide by the decisions we adopted in the Tsatsos report, for example on party financing, and we must also act properly where filling posts and promotions are concerned.
We owe this to everyone.
Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor once more, and I should also like to thank all the other rapporteurs, whose reports should go through smoothly.
