Mr President, on this Thursday, during this afternoon's topical and urgent debate, many of us here will obviously be delivering our final speeches on the subject of human rights.
We have been making these speeches for 20 years, and our cooperation has been fruitful.
It is perhaps slightly gratifying, if I may endorse what my colleagues have said, that we have seen some more progress on this very issue of the death penalty.
It may be that we have played some part in ensuring that a third call is now being made in Geneva for a worldwide moratorium on executions.
It is the sincere wish of our group, and of others too, that the Council should sponsor a motion to that effect at the General Assembly of the United Nations.
That may be the only way to make those countries that Mr Cars has just mentioned realise that the death penalty is truly the worst means of restoring people's human dignity, for every person should have the opportunity to atone for the wrong that he or she has done.
With the death penalty, that opportunity is irretrievably lost - quite apart from the fact that the death penalty is flagrantly abused in some cases.
If we in the European Parliament have helped to broaden awareness of that, not only through Mr Dupuis reminding us to include the death penalty on every agenda but also simply by highlighting a number of facts time and again in the name of our Parliament, then perhaps we have contributed in some small way to the protection of human rights.
In conclusion, Mr President, let me say that I fervently wish - and you will see whether this happens - that the next Parliament will continue this discussion, that it will not allow human rights to be squeezed out by economic issues, by the issues relating to enlargement, important though they may be, but that it will regard human rights as a political priority that must be pursued through the policies of the European Union, through its foreign policy and its enlargement policy.
Abolition of the death penalty is part of that priority.
There are many others, and I sincerely hope that they will all receive due consideration.
Applause
