Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what the Council has presented us with in the last week is in my view a double distortion of the content of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Article 190(5) states quite clearly that Parliament lays down a statute and the Council approves it.
If a codecision procedure in the sense of Article 189(b) had been intended, the founding fathers of the Amsterdam Treaty would have written that the Article 189(b) procedure applied.
But they did not do so.
They expressly stated, with good reason, that the Article 190(5) procedure applies, in which Parliament lays down a specific text and the Council approves it.
But what the Council has now done is to present us with a completely new text.
The only element that is the same is Article 1(1).
The other 14 pages are different.
With the best will in the world this cannot be described as an assent procedure.
Added to this is the fact that the Council has doubly violated the spirit and meaning of the Treaty because it has violated the Treaty's intention to establish equal treatment of MEPs by introducing a special tax to align MEPs' incomes with the national parliaments, and it restores this inequality by the back door, as it were.
This is a double violation of the provisions of the Treaty.
In my opinion we cannot as a result approve the Council's proposal.
Furthermore, I consider it unacceptable for a freely elected Member of Parliament, a freely elected Parliament, to be treated like an employee of the Council and to have to engage in collective bargaining with it.
This is particularly unacceptable as we adopted a very even and well-balanced paper on this in the December part-session, making MEPs' parliamentary allowances in future lower than those of the Members of Parliament of the three largest EU Member States in terms of population.
For the Germans this means giving up almost DM 1 500 per month, to put it in concrete terms.
I consider this to be very balanced.
Moreover, many of the provisions in the Council draft are impractical and unusable.
Without going into detail, as time is short, I shall say quite bluntly that I feel some of the points, particularly those on medical cover and the calculation of pension rights, are malicious.
The text presented here by the Liberals as an amendment is in my view already inadmissible because it changes the whole text and therefore contravenes Rule 125 of the Rules of Procedure.
The Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force on 1 May, and Parliament has gained significantly more power as a result.
If we were to approve the Council proposal and the Liberal amendment and not the paper drafted in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights under Mr Rothley, then we would be depriving ourselves of power again on a crucial issue that affects us directly.
I cannot imagine that the House will do this at tomorrow's vote.
Therefore we support the Rothley report.
Applause
