Having voted in February in the Strasbourg plenary by a narrow majority (consisting of the PPE and UPE Groups and several Socialist Members) to refer the draft report on energy taxation back to committee (the legislative resolution was rejected by 239 votes to 215 with 20 abstentions), the European Parliament has today adopted the second report by 278 votes to 219 with 16 abstentions.
This report (which is essentially no different from the first) welcomes the Commission's proposal to lay down compulsory minimum levels of taxation for energy products (including hydrocarbons, coal and electricity), but proposes the following changes to the Commission proposal:
. renewables should be exempted from the scope of the legislation; . instead of the minimum levels of taxation being increased in three stages, they should be increased continually (annually) in the coming years by 2 % plus the rate of inflation; . exemptions for companies which are major energy consumers may be granted by the Member States, provided the companies can demonstrate a decline in their competitiveness.
The Greens support the report, but had tabled some additional amendments.
One speaker thought it particularly positive that even in the Committee on Economic Affairs, a majority endorsed the Greens' proposal to provide for the possibility of exempting local public transport from energy taxation.
However, a majority of Parliament rejected the Greens' amendments providing for the minimum levels of taxation to be increased in accordance with a steeper index (an annual increase in the minimum level of taxation of 4 % for energy products and 6 % for electricity, plus the rate of inflation in each case) and seeking to remove the tax privileges for generating energy from the incineration of waste.
By rejecting the report, the Conservative parties and those on the right in Europe have shown once again that they do not take protecting the environment seriously as an across-the-board task of European politics; indeed, they are even pursuing a policy to block the transition to the use of renewables.
That is not the way to win the public over to the European cause.
However, we do specifically recognise the efforts made by the current President of the Environment Council, the German Environment Minister, Jürgen Trittin, to work actively towards overcoming the reservations on energy taxation in various Member States.
These efforts need to be continued and intensified to prevent a good European initiative from being ruined, once again, by individual 'brakemen' in the Council because of the principle of unanimity, which still applies on fiscal matters.
There is an old saying which states that a journey of 10 000 miles begins with the first step.
Even though we regret that this has taken so long and that progress is still so slow, this is one such first step in the right direction!
Nassauer proposal for a recommendation (A-0064/99)
