Madam President, I would firstly like to reciprocate the thanks and praise expressed by the rapporteur.
It was very pleasant working with him, and I hope that we can be very pleased with the result.
I also hope, Commissioner, that you will be able to accept a number of amendments agreed by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and that Parliament will also vote for these amendments tomorrow.
The Treaty of Amsterdam requires that environmental policy should be incorporated into all areas and that sustainable development should genuinely be achieved in the European Union, and I believe that we need a lot of instruments to be able to implement this.
The improved version of EMAS is one of those instruments which puts companies in particular in a 'win situation', allowing them to protect the environment and reduce costs.
In my view we must publicise this opportunity much more.
My small country has the highest percentage of EMAS-certified organisations.
I have inspected some of these and was really able to see the enthusiasm with which the staff, the managers and the owners or shareholders support EMAS, as it is not only the environment that it benefits.
The changes mentioned by Mr Valverde López will certainly make the programme more attractive.
Member States will have to recognise the input already made by the companies which led the way in environmental legislation, and opportunities may have to be created in awarding public contracts.
However, there was one point on which I did not agree with the rapporteur, but which my group considers to be very important along with worker participation, and that is the point about best available technology.
This Parliament has defined best available technology very precisely for industry and has also - rightly, in my opinion - excluded SMEs from this.
But if we want EMAS to become widespread and other sectors to become EMAS-certified as industrial companies or very large institutions, we must apply best available technology differently.
Why do we always think only of industry?
A hotel business has best available technology for sewage.
A transport company has best available technology for its logistics.
In order to achieve the goals of sustainable development and the Kyoto objectives, I think we need to make further progress in this area.
I very much hope that this amendment by my group - requesting that we include best available technology in this EMAS law - will be adopted.
