Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to go into detail today.
Some Members have already addressed certain questions and I assume that others here present will be referring to many of the details.
If the consequences of these fresh disputes with the United States were not so serious, this quarrel might seem amusing.
But the consequences are very serious and I hope that we will reach a satisfactory solution in the very near future, otherwise we would seriously jeopardise transatlantic relations.
Let me remind you: the European Union and the United States did most to initiate the dispute-settlement procedure within the WTO.
This procedure may not be perfect in every way and may need to be developed further but it is the only international instrument we have to resolve trade disputes.
The United States doubts whether the new banana market organisation is WTO compatible.
That is indeed its right.
But it does not have the right to take unilateral measures against its trade partners and to issue sanctions, such as in this case the absurd 100 % duties on products from EU Member States.
It does not have the right to take it upon itself to deliver a verdict.
The conduct of the United States does considerable damage to the WTO dispute settlement procedure.
It makes the preliminary negotiations for the new WTO round considerably more difficult and it damages confidence in the process of transatlantic partnership.
It gives the impression that the American margin for play in trade policy is increasingly determined by a purely national political agenda, which causes justified fears that it is trying to impose a particular American trade philosophy worldwide.
That is playing with fire and puts the WTO itself in the firing line.
Protectionism must not always be seen as the solution to national problems.
In the scheme of things we are all dependent on one another and the WTO is an instrument for harmonising egoistic national approaches.
It is not beloved of everyone, it is not perfect, but it is extremely necessary.
To approach national issues, such as bananas, hormones and many others I could mention, in emotional political terms, takes the reason out of politics as a whole and sets in motion a trend that may not be stoppable.
My group fully supports the Commission's position.
You have before you an appropriate joint resolution from the Committee on External Economic Relations that strongly rejects the unilateral measures taken by the United States, fully supports the Commission and, moreover, in my view can form a good basis for further European policy measures.
