Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, once again we are speaking in this House about Turkey, and once again we do so with mixed feelings, because there are bad signs and there are a few good signs, and we are not sure of the direction in which Turkey is heading.
First of all, the Öcalan case has come before the courts.
We do not really have the impression that this is a fair, open and transparent trial.
We have a feeling of unease, stemming from the fact that the death penalty is once again being made popular and respectable in Turkey, notably through the Öcalan trial.
Secondly, we are deeply concerned that an extremely nationalistic party experienced a very strong upsurge in support at the last elections and that its manifesto does not call for conciliation with the Kurdish population, but rather the opposite.
Thirdly, the HADEP party did well in the elections, especially in the Kurdish area, and there are now 41 HADEP members in charge of local administrations.
We doubt whether these 41 mayors will be allowed to exercise their democratic rights as elected representatives of the people.
There are already numerous indications that the government would really prefer to deprive the mayors of that right.
We know that many, many dozens and indeed hundreds of people are still locked up in prisons, some of them officials of that selfsame party, without due process, without trial, without conviction.
What about them?
When will they finally be released?
When will they stand trial before a court of law?
Why do the authorities hesitate to institute proceedings against these people?
There is probably no real evidence against them.
Fourthly, there is Akin Birdal, whom I was able to visit in Ankara a few days after the attempt on his life and whom all, or at least many of us know as a staunch campaigner for human rights.
He seems to have recovered enough to be put in prison, and he is to be taken into custody in the next few days.
We know, however, that the care and treatment and the therapy he needs if he is really to be restored to full health will scarcely be possible in a Turkish prison.
A serious question mark hangs over this case.
Fifthly, perhaps the most encouraging feature of the whole situation is that there is a President of the Constitutional Court who said clearly and plainly only a few days ago that many legal provisions in Turkey would have to be amended because they were contrary to human rights, because they were incompatible with the rights that should exist in a democratic state.
I hope that this school of thought can gradually gain the upper hand.
It is a hard struggle, and I hope, Commissioner, Mr Vice-President, that you will speak out clearly on behalf of the Commission and the European Union in order to help that school of thought to prevail, because at the moment Turkey is turning away from Europe rather than moving in our direction.
If we in this House and in this European Union do something to help the Kurds, we shall actually be doing something for Turkey and helping to bring it closer to the rest of Europe.
