Madam President, as soon as the Amsterdam Treaty has been ratified in all Member States, it will produce new benchmarks.
But we will have to wait a few more months before the principle of equal opportunities for women and men is also strengthened.
It is stipulated as a principle and a goal of the Community in Articles 2 and 3 of the Amsterdam Treaty.
Today, on International Women's Day, I recall other articles, such as those on equal treatment in the workplace and on the labour market, on equal pay for equal work and on combating discrimination on the basis of sex.
The European Commission has established that there are considerable shortcomings as regards incorporating equal opportunities into the Community programmes.
The main reason, according to Mrs Eriksson, the rapporteur, is the lack of awareness of the decision-makers, and this is a view that the Group of the European People's Party naturally shares.
Effective individual measures cannot replace an integrated general concept.
However much cooperation there is with the NGOs, with the committees of other bodies, there are no adequate organisations to promote awareness-raising among the political players.
When they do exist, it will become possible to check the incorporation of equal opportunities in draft legislation, ensure a balanced gender participation in decision-making jobs and finally prepare statistical material that can be broken down into gender-relevant data.
We need a benchmarking procedure to make it easier to evaluate programmes and projects and we must continue vigorously taking positive measures in favour of women.
However, the working party between Parliament and the Commission that is called for in paragraph 21 already exists!
Its members include two representatives of the Committee on Women's Rights and two representatives of the Committee on Employment; I am one of them and we hold regular meetings with the representatives of the European women's lobby on the one hand and the responsible Commissioners and heads of cabinet led by Jacques Santer on the other.
We have always reported on their outcome in the committees.
We will have to do so in more detail and certainly also in writing.
I believe that is one message that comes across from today's International Women's Day.
