Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Theorin's report on the environment, security and foreign policy addresses a detail of security policy, namely questions relating to environmental policy, exaggerates their importance and therefore tries to look at the security policy role of the armed forces mainly from that aspect and to change the task and role of the security forces.
It has become particularly clear in the former Warsaw Pact member states how the armed forces can pollute the environment, for there the withdrawal of the then Soviet troops very often left serious environmental damage in its wake.
Abandoned and often disintegrating nuclear submarines have become a danger to the seas, former barracks have left a legacy of oil-polluted soil.
Of course it is legitimate to ask who is responsible for disposing of the military waste, especially in these countries.
But to use this as a pretext for defining armed forces only in relation to their environmental compatibility, to prevent research on the grounds that it is not environmentally compatible, is to undermine the security policy task of those armed forces.
Since the end of the cold war has not yet brought peace, we have to reject this basic approach that is taken in the report.
To hold the armed forces responsible for the environmental damage does not take us forward, for it would put an unacceptable burden on the defence budget, limited as it is.
What is, however, important and right, is for the governments to have to pay for environmental damage and to apply the polluter pays principle here.
In spite of the basic approach taken in the report, which I reject on principle as unrealistic, some aspects are of course definitely worth supporting, such as the inclusion of environmental aspects in military research, gearing the arms industry more to the production of civil goods, the call for a ban on anti-personnel mines and for the immediate signature of the 1997 Ottawa agreement, control of waste from the nuclear weapons industry, control of biological and chemical weapons, the further dismantling of nuclear weapons and in particular observance of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty.
There is a great danger that weapons of this kind could fall into the hands of irresponsible despots or terrorist organisations and this must be prevented by a network of international agreements and by the appropriate controls.
To call for environmental training of military personnel with the aim of setting up an environmental protection brigade is inappropriate here and would get us nowhere since environmental aspects are already taken into account in the national armed forces and in the NATO Partnership for Peace.
Of course the armed forces must be prepared to deal with environmental disasters.
But that is certainly not their primary task.
