I am very fond of you all, but perhaps you could request once again that somebody from Parliament's administration should be present, because what I have to say is of course primarily aimed at them.
Having my target audience absent really makes this rather difficult.
So, I shall just grind out my speech, like it or not.
Madam President, acting Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday evening and this morning we discussed the reforms that a new Commission needs to tackle as a matter of urgency.
We formulated conditions that both individual Commissioners and the Commission collectively should fulfil, not just in terms of substance, but also as regards procedure.
I hope and indeed I am confident that the vitality of this debate will also infect this House.
The European Parliament's preliminary draft estimates for the year 2000 provide us with an opportunity to do this, and as rapporteur I would like to make a brief introduction to the debate - assuming there will be one, that is.
I believe that the influence wielded by political institutions is not just a matter of legal clauses and treaty articles.
As parliamentarians we are particularly aware that political subject matter is only as good as the scope for communicating it through the process of public debate.
So we will have to ensure that the new powers conferred on us by the Treaty of Amsterdam a few days ago are underpinned by our collective credibility.
That is our true political capital.
The first of the two central themes that I would like to see governing the future administrative development of the House is therefore 'greater trust based on greater transparency'.
I am firmly convinced that adopting the Statute for Members of the European Parliament would be a crucial step in this direction.
In the expectation that a decision to this effect will be taken this year, the Budgets Committee has therefore included an amount of EUR 60 million in the reserve and has created a staff reserve to cover the additional administrative requirements expected.
This means we can finally dispense with special pots of money such as the two special pension funds for Members, which have repeatedly been the subject of public criticism of Parliament.
Furthermore, it is worth remembering at this point that the amount originally earmarked for setting up a supermarket, EUR 3.8 million, is no longer included in the preliminary estimates.
Another relevant point in this context is that the repayment period for the new buildings has now been definitively set at 10 years instead of 15, so that the interest burden over the whole period has been reduced by some EUR 60 million, thus avoiding the need for a hidden loan from future budgets.
I feel that this sends the right signals if we are to regain the confidence of the electorate.
The target of not spending more than 20 % of the entire administrative expenditure category for the Parliament is one which we ourselves have observed for years, and the Budgets Committee believes, as do I, that this target must definitely be respected.
A one-off overshoot is only tolerable if the Statute for Members is budgetised, but it should be partly reduced towards the previous level in the coming year and return to that level in 2001.
At the same time, improvements in Parliament's administrative efficiency are both necessary and achievable.
If we are to exploit the scope for greater efficiency, we need less bureaucracy and more decentralisation - in short an improvement in motivation by delegating more responsibility, including to those at middle management level.
So it is now a question of actively implementing - both in the House and within the groups - the budgetisation system on which the Budgets Committee has already held a hearing.
I am delighted that the administration has assured us that the additional tasks it will have to take on because of the Amsterdam Treaty coming into force and preparations for enlargement will be totally covered by the existing staff complement.
We can do this only in cooperation with the staff, and we would not want it any other way.
That is why the Budgets Committee has fundamentally signed up to the new staff policy, the centrepiece of which is promotion on the basis of sustained merit, with an average promotion cycle of five years.
For the coming budget year, this means that the decision taken to completely clear the promotion backlog will lead to upgradings for 26.5 % of staff with scope for promotion.
Furthermore, this system will help to put a stop to the practice of party-political or nationally motivated promotions through several grades at a time.
I would like to conclude by addressing several systemic problems that I have encountered under the budget procedure to date.
A problem that I have come across in relation to ad personam promotions is that I as rapporteur am supposed to approve individual promotions which I assume are justified, but for which I cannot really take responsibility.
I therefore propose that there should be a system for ad personam promotions, for example by means of an annual budget including all long-term costs.
Another problem, as I see it, is that the short period which rapporteurs have to acquaint themselves with the subject matter is scarcely adequate to grasp the complex interrelated issues within the administration.
From a purely informational point of view, the annual reporting process is too weak in relation to the administration.
And one last point: I am firmly convinced - and I have to say that my views have moved on in this respect - that we need more efficient simultaneous self-regulation by the House itself, particularly in relation to the Bureau.
This includes both budgetary and staff policy debates and a new system of Bureau rulings and political control of this.
But the golden rule for Parliament is still 'greater trust leads to greater transparency'.
