Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to congratulate my colleagues, and I think that we are all pulling in the same direction on this subject.
The issue of energy efficiency seems to have lost its importance in the public's eyes in recent years, as confirmed by the International Energy Agency.
This subject is regarded as irrelevant, quite simply because despite population growth and increasing energy consumption, there are sufficient fossil energy sources for the foreseeable future.
And I believe that another reason is that the market has gone quiet - it is not giving any price signals.
Quite the opposite in fact, crude-oil prices are lower than before the oil crises.
So who has any interest in improving efficiency?
Certainly not energy producers, consumers scarcely at all and industrial consumers only within limits.
It is we politicians who are most concerned, because we understand the link between energy consumption and CO2 emissions.
And that is why we have committed ourselves to reducing Europe's CO2 emissions as compared with 1990, as has already been highlighted at Kyoto and Buenos Aires under the Convention on Climate Change, the Framework Convention.
Another political motivating factor is that if we carry on in this way, the share of imports will rise from 50 % to 70 % by 2020, and with it our dependency on third countries.
Yet there are enormous opportunities available to us.
Of course, opinions differ on the extent of the technical and economic potential for energy savings over the next five years, but whether we aim for 18-20 % or higher, the potential is still very great indeed.
If we take our political role seriously, it becomes apparent that we need annual efficiency gains of at least 2.5 %, instead of just 0.6 % at present.
If we want to be consistent, these gains are necessary, and they are possible as well.
The Commission is calling for 1.6 %, but there is scope for more.
We can only achieve this if we agree upon a comprehensive strategy at European, national and regional level, and that is indeed what the Commission is proposing.
This strategy must require Member States to commit themselves to binding national overall targets, it must include guideline targets by energy type and economic sector, and we ourselves want reports at three-yearly intervals, starting in 2001.
That brings me to certain priority individual measures.
We need a directive on energy efficiency standards in public procurement.
We need guidelines for the renovation of existing buildings.
We should start with the European institutions themselves.
We need guidelines for the award of contracts for buildings maintenance and for new buildings.
And while we are on that subject - and this has already been mentioned - a consistent policy on renovating old buildings would also create new jobs.
Second, we need more targeted campaigns aimed at specific occupational groups and comprehensive labelling of all electrical consumer and capital goods.
A start has been made, but something more comprehensive is needed.
Third, we need to increase the use of combined heat and power, and we must be careful that this option does not lose out because of the liberalisation of the internal energy market.
An 18 % target is sensible and this also has the Commission's support.
We need a financing programme for energy service companies or ESCOs.
They have great potential for the future and could assist energy conservation.
Fourth, there is great potential for transport systems, leaving agriculture aside for the time being.
Concepts such as logistics and intermodal transport serve to demonstrate just how much could be done in this field.
Some initial steps have been taken under the fifth framework programme on research, but more needs to be done.
Fifth, stand-by losses need to be reduced.
Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz has touched upon this already.
We expect the Commission to bring forward a communication on stand-by losses as soon as possible.
My sixth point is that we of course need an EU-wide energy tax.
We need to tackle this old chestnut yet again, and I hope that the next Parliament will do something about this at some point.
I hope there will be sufficient insight to achieve this.
I am all too well aware of what happened to the Cox report.
Even if no one is going to win any political medals by fighting for energy conservation, increasing energy efficiency is and will continue to be the cleanest and safest source of energy that we have, and we should be focusing on that.
