Commissioner Brittan, once again you have made the position very clear, and indeed you have also dealt with the various trade disputes in which we have been engaged with the United States for quite a number of months, if not for years in some cases.
Several points give me cause for some concern.
Without further ado, I should like to turn to the first of these.
All these cases, these trade disputes, in which we are at present engaged with the United States or with Canada, are in principle test cases, in which the boundaries set by the World Trade Organisation are being scrutinised to see how much independence and autonomy countries actually have to determine their own policies in particular fields, whether it is consumer protection, whether it is health care, whether it is a question of how policies with respect to developing countries can be implemented - as in the banana case - or whether it is about standards.
These are all key questions, and we have a World Trade Organisation which has marked out a framework within which we have to act as a trading partner.
In principle and by and large we are happy, but we know that there are definite borderline situations and cases which are being tested out by means of complaints or rulings.
This is the situation in which we find ourselves.
My second concern is that there are two conflicting models here, and the hormones case illustrates this perfectly: the famous American model, if I may call it that, with a different system of health care, and the European model, in which welfare is given greater prominence.
What bothers me is how we are going to be able to work together in the future and how in the new trade round we are going to be able on the one hand to agree on more common standards, while on the other hand guaranteeing a greater degree of independence and autonomy in the self-determination of regions and countries.
That will not be very easy; indeed we have already discussed in the committee several times how this is to be achieved.
This hormone case will be the test case for the European Union.
This will far surpass everything we experienced in the banana dispute, because here consumers will of course be very sensitive, and they want policies which guarantee the highest possible standards of health care and health protection.
At the moment, I am very unsure of how we can react in the light of the answer which you have given.
On no account should we rule out any option, and on no account - this is my group's opinion and other colleagues will also be mentioning this - should we make any concessions at this stage.
On no account should we make a political statement committing ourselves to anything before we have the final results of the scientific investigations.
Only then should we reopen discussions - involving Parliament, the Council and the Commission - on what our next move ought to be.
At the present time, I would consider a statement of any kind to be premature.
