Mr President, may I express my sincere thanks to Mrs Read as well as to everyone else who has contributed to this discussion for their comments.
The Commission is trying to find sensible solutions to this diverse set of problems.
The report we have presented is not entirely up to date, because it cannot yet cover the implementation of the voice telephony directive in its amended form.
In other words, when we present another updated report this year as part of our task of evaluating the implementation of the existing directives, we shall be far better able to deal with some of your questions.
In the meantime, I should like to focus especially on four questions that have resurfaced in this discussion.
First there is the question how the Member States have established what affordability means.
Some Member States, anticipating the amended voice telephony directive, have already introduced more stringent measures to protect consumers.
Amongst other things, there are price-monitoring and prepayment systems, particularly in the field of mobile telephony.
Six Member States - Denmark, Germany, Spain, France, Finland and the United Kingdom - have already notified us that they have transposed the amended directive.
We expect that Belgium, Greece, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Austria and Sweden will shortly announce similar measures.
As one speaker said in the course of today's discussion, affordability depends to a great extent on income levels in individual Member States.
These vary widely.
Average incomes in some areas are three or four times the average income in another.
For that reason we are really relying on the Member States, in accordance with the solidarity principle, to take greater responsibility in this area than we could take ourselves.
What we shall be able to do, however, is to provide details in the new report of the progress that has been made in implementing the stricter consumer safeguards.
The second question relates to support for low-income users and disabled users, as well as for occasional users.
We have recommended special tariffs for such users precisely because we wish to counteract the first adverse effects of liberalisation that we, like others, expect to occur.
We have now managed - and Mrs Read knows this, as do her colleagues who have spoken on this subject, because they have all been studying these things - to achieve quite considerable reductions in mobile call charges this year, which incidentally has had a knock-on effect on standard call charges for fixed-network subscribers.
Moreover, the amended voice telephony directive provides for special tariffs for low-income users, price ceilings and affordability criteria in Article 3 and prescribes special measures for disabled users and users with special social needs in Article 8.
This, it should be said, has now been transposed into the national law of five Member States - not just of France, as the report stated, but also of Italy, the Netherlands, Sweden and the United Kingdom.
The new report will show us how things have developed from there.
The Commission, like Parliament, is anxious to ensure that the new legislation is actually benefiting these groups of users.
How should the operators of the universal service be chosen?
The Commission has no objections to any system that ensures the provision of a convenient, cost-effective universal service.
The services may be put out to tender, but they may also be based on a cost calculation, prices then being fixed to cover only the net cost of the service.
That is why we do not wish to come down on the side of any particular process.
The final question concerns the widening of public access to the Internet and especially the use of the Internet by public institutions.
We have always said that this is absolutely crucial to the development of the information society, and we are now gratified to note that competition has developed among service providers, as a result of which interfaces have become more user-friendly and charges have been reduced.
That is not the case everywhere, Mr President, and Mrs Read was right to criticise this state of affairs.
The root of the problem has been the so-called rebalancing of tariffs, whereby the relatively cheap local calls have become more expensive while the price of the relatively expensive trunk calls and international calls has been reduced; since Internet access is obtained through a local number, it initially became more expensive than it had been.
But that is now in the past.
We have certainly been observing price reductions; special rates for schools and other special tariffs are in no way inconsistent with the rules of competition, and we encourage these as long as the marginal cost is covered.
I can promise you that we intend to re-examine the universal service in connection with the review of legislation scheduled for the end of 1999, and that we shall subsequently communicate the results to Parliament.
