Mr President, Mr President-in Office of the Council, the war in Kosovo puts everything that is happening in Europe, including the Berlin summit, in relative terms.
Suddenly every peaceful compromise is worth more than was originally assumed.
But every peaceful compromise is only worth what it brings us in terms of security in the next seven years of the reform and enlargement of the European Union.
From that point of view, the Berlin summit with all its decisions was a total success.
I would like to make three comments from a budgetary point of view.
One: the financial package is to be welcomed because you managed to reserve the appropriations for the applicant countries on a definitive basis.
My group was particularly concerned about that.
The EU of 15 has cut back, especially in the structural field, which meant that Berlin sent out a clear and reliable signal to the applicants for accession.
Two: I criticise the financial package because in my view it unfortunately failed to take the decisive step towards redirecting agricultural policy.
This is a heavy burden and calls for a review earlier than planned.
The Franco-German engine simply does not run on milk.
We all know that.
After the elections and under the new Commission, this subject must undoubtedly come back on the agenda.
Three: from Parliament's point of view the financial package is not acceptable where it relates to internal and external policy, to administrative expenditure and to the flexibility we want to see.
The terrible events in Kosovo show us that foreign policy tasks in particular will increase over the next few years, that we need more than fine words here if we are to organise a genuine common foreign and security policy initiative in Europe.
But I am assuming that we will be able to use the margin for manoeuvre that is still available during the trilogue, and I ask you to support us here.
At the same time I join Mr Collins in asking you to reconsider your decision, so that Mr Gil-Robles can after all take part in the special meeting this afternoon as representative of the European Parliament.
Applause
