Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, never before in the history of European integration have so many important decisions been made and so many dramatic events taken place in such a short time as since 1 January.
They range from the successful launch of the single currency and the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam to the resignation of the Commission and the ongoing accession process for 10 countries.
All this has now been overshadowed by the armed conflict in Kosovo, in which the European Union and its Member States are involved.
Never before has the EU been faced with greater challenges to its capacity for action and enlargement.
That is why the Herman report contains both criticisms of the Commission's structures and self-criticism of our own procedures.
The most important points are these: within the Commission there need to be clear portfolios and Commissioners and Deputy Commissioners, similar to Ministers and Ministers of State in national governments.
We need to strike a balance in this way between the principle of collective responsibility and the particular responsibilities of individual members of the Commission.
After all, transparency is of paramount importance.
The new Commission headed by Romano Prodi as its President will take a giant step towards European government, and it is vital that it should.
Second, the European Parliament must concentrate on its prime tasks, which are legislation, legislation, and legislation again, together with the selection and scrutiny of the Commission and decision-making on the budget.
It should be possible to present and explain all these activities to the public.
Today, we are learning from our past mistakes and preparing ourselves for new activities.
That is the yardstick the public will apply, and public opinion should be our own yardstick.
At this point, because this is Mr Herman's last report, I would like to thank him on behalf of the Socialist Group for his twenty years of work, and in particular for his commitment, for his creativity and for everything he has achieved in the institutional field.
The House is today considering the last report of - if I may take the liberty - a great European.
We do not belong to the same political family, but we essentially have the same aims and the same principles, and I believe that we also have many of the same dreams.
On behalf of my group, I would to express my esteem for Fernand Herman's life's work.
Applause
