Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when Mr Fischer presented the programme of the German Presidency here approximately a month ago in his capacity of President-in-Office of the Council, the first priority he listed for this six-month term was the successful conclusion of the Agenda 2000 negotiations by the time of the special European Council meeting on 24 and 25 March.
It is now just six weeks to the day until this meeting, which will be held in Berlin at the request of Chancellor Schröder.
The negotiations on the individual components of the Agenda, which we have been conducting intensively since the Commission submitted its legislative proposals eleven months ago and at full stretch since the beginning of the year, have now reached a crucial phase.
I am glad that at this stage I can now discuss Agenda 2000 with you in detail.
Let me start with a brief outline of the timetable up to the special summit.
By the time of the General Affairs Council and Agriculture Council in just under a fortnight's time we will have had a first run-through of all the major components of the global compromise to be reached by the Council bodies and Councils.
This first consideration of the key questions, under the aegis of the General Affairs Council, the Economic and Financial Affairs Council and the Agriculture Council, has already proved fairly successful in terms of reaching compromises and consensus on some aspects.
But it also became clear that we still have an enormous way to go and very little time to do so.
The Heads of State and Government will assess the progress made to date, especially the results we hope to see from the Agriculture Council on 22 and 23 February, at their informal summit in Bonn on 26 February.
We expect this meeting, to which Chancellor Schröder has also invited the President of the European Parliament, to provide important guidelines for the further activities of the final phase.
Immediately after the Bonn summit we will, after all, have to start tying up the package that the Heads of State and Government are to finish negotiating on and bring to a political conclusion at the end of March and during April, under the responsibility of the General Affairs Council as the coordinating body.
For the rest, you could regard the fact that Chancellor Schröder has moved the special summit from Brussels to Bonn as a sign of our strong commitment to bringing the negotiations to a successful conclusion.
The German Presidency will do its utmost to achieve that successful conclusion.
We have become convinced that other Member States are also firmly resolved to achieve it and therefore want to conduct the negotiations in a constructive and positive manner.
Everybody realises that a balanced package is the only solution, and that there can be no winners or losers.
Each Member State must have its appropriate say on the final result, but at the same time each must make its contribution to achieving that result.
Everything must be laid out openly on the table.
There can be no taboo subjects!
It is of paramount importance to the Union and thus to all the Member States - and all the partner states realise this - for us to be able to declare the European Union the winner at the end of March; for one thing is sure, Europe could very easily become the loser.
Putting it off will not make the solution any easier, on the contrary.
If a few months after the entry into force of monetary union, and indeed only a few weeks before the June elections to the European Parliament, we disappointed people's hopes that we would prove capable of action, the consequences would be very serious.
If the European Union, which since the beginning of this year has become a new financial market with global influence and global responsibility, cannot also resolutely assume the corresponding political responsibility - on the basis also of the Amsterdam Treaty - then too Europe would be the loser.
And if the momentum of the enlargement negotiations is weakened and the date of their conclusion is postponed, the effects would be so damaging as to set us back in our work for a long time.
I hope these and other arguments will prompt all the Member States to make more and even greater concerted efforts.
Meanwhile it is generally realised that, unlike the case of the earlier Delors I and Delors II packages, this time it will not be possible to reach a compromise in the end by making extra funds available.
On the contrary, the unequal burden-sharing that resulted from this kind of approach in earlier cases must be corrected this time, for the sake of the legitimacy and future viability of the European Union.
I do not think any of our partners questions the principle of fair burden-sharing, just as they cannot question the principle of solidarity, which is the constitutive principle of the European Union.
One basic condition for the success of the negotiations as a whole is that the Heads of State and Government decided in Vienna to include all the components of the Agenda in the discussion and only to seek a solution in the form of an overall package.
Everything is laid out on the table.
That means a balance can be found covering every aspect, and the combination of various parameters ensures that the further negotiations will be sufficiently flexible and dynamic.
In many areas of the Agenda, it has proved possible to broaden the basis of agreement over the past weeks.
This applies in particular to the reform of the Structural Funds, where consensus has now been reached on major issues.
I am thinking, for instance, of the reduction of the number of objectives from seven to three, the reduction of the number of Community initiatives and the long-disputed question of coherence between national aid and EU aid; I am also thinking of the efficiency performance reserve, where gratifying progress was made at the last General Affairs Council.
On other important questions, such as strict adherence to the 75 % criterion for Objective 1 areas and reserving some two thirds of funds for Objective 1, the discussions have already produced clear majorities.
Here you must not forget that under the Austrian Presidency broad political agreement was already reached on the pre-accession instruments that are so important to enlargement policy.
The same applies to the financial regulation on trans-European networks.
In both areas - structural reform and pre-accession instruments - I held talks yesterday with European Parliament representatives under the informal consultation procedure, continuing those that were begun under the Austrian Presidency.
We attach the utmost importance to this dialogue at political level as a means of concluding the Agenda successfully and on schedule.
In the coming weeks we will therefore carry on with this dialogue intensively and in a constructive spirit.
Mr Fischer gave another assurance to that effect in his reply to the letter from your President, Mr Gil-Robles Gil-Delgado.
Dialogue is not a one-way street.
The Council will take account in its decision-making of the positions expressed by the European Parliament during these discussions.
The informal consultation forms part of our endeavour to provide Parliament with comprehensive information at all times, as reflected in our debate today and our offer to hold an exchange of views on Agenda 2000 at any time in an informal political trialogue.
We are well aware that not only the Council but especially you, the Members of the European Parliament, will have an important part to play in resolving the Agenda-related problems in good time.
Our presidency will do all it can to cooperate closely with you on a basis of trust.
Applause
