Mrs Karamanou, this is an extremely serious question and the Council is grateful to you for giving it an opportunity to address this issue in the European Parliament.
The European Union is aware of the effects of the sanctions on the food situation and on health care in Iraq.
The Council has for a long time been deeply concerned about the situation of the civilian population in Iraq and especially the children.
That is why the Council has always supported the Security Council's offer, which Iraq initially turned down, to permit the sale of oil in return for humanitarian imports.
Ever since the 'oil for food' programme was implemented in late 1996, the Member States of the European Union have chaired the Security Council's committee on sanctions against Iraq and always sought the flexible application and continual improvement of the programme.
The European Union and its Member States are also playing their part in trying to improve the humanitarian situation in Iraq.
But the crucial point of reference is and remains the 'oil for food' programme.
At the 55th meeting of the UN Human Rights Commission in Geneva from 22 to 30 April this year the European Union took the initiative in drafting a resolution on the human rights situation; this calls inter alia on the Iraqi leadership to cooperate further in carrying out the 'oil for food' programme and to ensure the fair distribution of the humanitarian imports.
The Union also continues to support any initiatives to further improve the operation of the 'oil for food' programme and in this respect refers specifically to the proposals submitted by the UN Security Council panel on 30 March 1999 on the humanitarian situation in Iraq.
While most of the initial administrative difficulties of the 'oil for food' programme have been ironed out, the main problem with the programme is now Iraq's poor export capacity and the distribution of the medical aid.
Iraq's export capacity is now being improved under a sub-programme of the 'oil for food' programme, but it will not take full effect until spring 2000 because of the planning and delivery schedules; here, as you know, oil prices are a factor of uncertainty in both directions.
According to information from the United Nations, medical aid to the value of 275 million dollars is currently blocked in Iraqi warehouses although it is urgently needed by the population.
Responsibility for this lies with the Iraqi Government.
That illustrates the point made in Mrs Karamanou's question that the Saddam Hussein regime is exploiting the distress of the population as a weapon to have sanctions lifted without fulfilling the cease-fire requirements of Resolution 687 of 1991.
That means the Iraqi leadership is responsible for the inadequate implementation of the 'oil for food' programme, just as it is responsible for the fact that the sanctions still cannot be lifted after running for over eight years.
Let me remind you that in 1991 all the experts could and did assume that Iraq could have complied with Resolution 687 on a basis of full cooperation within the space of a few months.
We are dealing here with a conflict between the humanitarian principle and the principle of national sovereignty, both of which are enshrined in the United Nations Charter, which restricts our means of action.
But let me leave you in no doubt that we can only condemn the conduct of the Iraqi state leadership as utterly inhumane.
