Mr President, in the past there have been many differences and even quarrels between the Council and Parliament on the subject of Kosovo.
The same will be true in future!
But you know and can rely on the fact that the European Parliament is on your side on the Kosovo question and in seeking ways to resolve the conflict, as it must be resolved!
Applause
To come back to Agenda 2000.
First of all I am glad that rather than telling us about the book-keeping for the next six months you have put the decisions facing the German Presidency of the Council in the longer-term perspective of the development of the European Union.
Agenda 2000 is an overall concept and you called for the timetable to be met.
My group, as also, I am convinced, the majority in the European Parliament, wants the timetable for adopting Agenda 2000 to be met.
We have prepared for this and are in a position to take the necessary decisions in April-May.
But that also means that the Council must be prepared to discuss them, for a large part of the proposals you put forward at the March summit will also have to be endorsed by the European Parliament.
So it is advisable for the Council to discuss them with the European Parliament beforehand rather than afterwards, since that could lead to confrontations.
My second point is this.
We regard the Agenda as a global package and I believe that the Commission's proposals represent a good compromise that could be amended and perhaps even improved in some areas.
But the global package as such must stand.
That will have to be the basis on which Parliament and the Member States must reach agreement.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me say a few words in regard to the discussions in our Member States and to the internal political debate in our own country.
Here I am also addressing those Members who keep calling on Germany to show solidarity.
You cannot call for a reform of agricultural policy while at the same time declaring that in internal political terms everything will remain as it is.
That is simply not on!
Applause
You cannot propose to reform the Structural Funds, to concentrate on combating unemployment and at the same time demand that all those who used to profit from the Structural Funds, i.e. 51 % of the population, should continue to profit!
You cannot say we must keep to the financial framework while at the same time calling for more EU expenditure on eastern enlargement.
You cannot try to rally the Union partners to eastern enlargement and at the same time call not just for fair contributions but for a massive cut in net contributions to the European Union.
Much can be achieved, and much will still have to be achieved in the coming negotiations up to March.
But there is one thing that Brussels cannot do, and that is to suspend the Community's basic accounting methods.
Not even someone familiar with dealing with fundamentalists could manage that.
We are prepared to adopt the global package in April-May.
And, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that means we are the only parliament that is taking the risk of adopting all the cruel decisions associated with Agenda 2000 before an election.
We would like to be given some credit for showing such courage!
So do give us a little help here.
We need the Agenda 2000 reforms, with a view also to the financial perspectives, if the European Union is to be able to enlarge to the east.
That is not the only reason for the reform, let us be clear about that!
The European Union would need to be reformed in any case; but we also need this reform so as to make the Union capable of enlargement, which will be the great historical task following the introduction of the euro.
Agenda 2000 is only a part of the reform package.
I am very glad that you also referred to the institutional reforms that will be needed in addition to Agenda 2000 in order to make the Union capable of enlargement and that you sketched out the broad lines of a general concept.
Let me also say a few words on this institutional reform.
It is a mistake to believe that less Europe means a Europe closer to the people.
On the contrary!
A Union that is in a position to do the things the citizens expect of it is closer to the people than all the declarations by conferences of foreign ministers and all the declarations on subsidiarity in our Member States.
The more consolidated the Union is, the more flexible its decisions and its institutions can be.
The stronger the Union institutions are, the more firmly they must be anchored in democracy.
I am saying that also against the backdrop of the debate we will be holding this week.
The more credible the institutions are, the greater their ability also to act at European level.
What does the European idea mean?
Yes, it is true that over the past 40 years we have built up Europe to prevent a return to the past.
That was right, it was a good thing and it also remains a constant task.
Against the background of a history spanning a thousand years of European wars, 50 years of peace in most of Europe is a very short time and there is no guarantee that it will continue if we do not make fresh efforts every day to seek agreement, to seek common institutions and common decisions in the European Union.
That is a difficult process.
I would like to see not only members of parliament and the European Parliament but also the Member State governments uphold the European policy they decide in Brussels during the working week - not just on Sundays, but on weekdays too.
In our Member States, the same ministers - I am not referring to you personally, Mr Fischer, but this does need to be said in this kind of debate - who adopt a whole range of regulations and directives in Brussels from Monday to Friday, announce the following Saturday or Sunday that once again Brussels has decided some sort of nonsense.
This has to stop!
Applause
You cannot go on like that!
You are leading the people, the citizens of Europe astray.
Do not misunderstand me: this applies to the governments of all the Member States and, incidentally, of every party-political persuasion.
So what do we mean by saying that we know that we must unite Europe not so much against a return to the past but far more to master the tasks of the future?
It is not just a question of the success of the euro but also of mastering the consequences, the burdens, the risks facing the entire European Union as a result of the fact that we now have a common currency.
That involves a fundamental idea; specifically it involves a charter of fundamental rights.
I would like to see the European Parliament play a very decisive role in future in formulating these fundamental rights.
That would be a real task for the newly elected Parliament!
Secondly the European idea - it exists, all we have to do is formulate and clarify it - means that Europe represents a balance, one that is constantly under threat and must constantly be renewed, between economic performance, which we need, and social justice, which is the foundation of economic performance and not just a social addendum.
Europe represents a balance that is constantly under threat and needs constant renewal between freedom for the individual, his search for truth and justice and his responsibility towards the whole, towards the community.
That is the meaning of the term European, those are the foundations on which we build and on which we can construct a European Union that is capable of external action, that makes it clear that Europe plays a role in the world, not just for the sake of playing a role but in order to disseminate our principles, our great tradition of human rights and social rights in the world and to help establish them.
It is a Europe that is able to win not just the minds but also the hearts of the people.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, play your part in ensuring that we do so and achieve our aim!
Applause
