Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, when we discussed Kosovo here four weeks ago, it was clear to those who know the facts that nothing tangible in terms of agreements would come out of Rambouillet.
The fear that Milosevic is above all playing for time has, of course, proved to be well founded.
The deadline's being put back three times was also only to be expected.
Milosevic knows our weaknesses, but he does not know how determined we are.
This is now also true of the hardliners on the Albanian side.
Despite Rambouillet and despite the agreement reached in October last year between Mr Holbrooke and Milosevic, Serb soldiers have, in the meantime, moved into Kosovo and are creating a gauntlet which has to be run to cross over into Macedonia and Albania.
There are 4 500 new heavily armed soldiers on the Macedonian border and 1 500 on the Albanian border.
This warlike activity is frightening the Albanians and of course putting them to flight, and we are standing by and watching, as is our wont.
We are not doing anything; we are thinking about reconstruction, but I think that first we need to make sure that there are no refugees before we think about reconstruction and go grovelling in Belgrade.
At the same time, the inglorious Lord Owen - of whom we all still have painful memories from the war in Bosnia - puts in an appearance and makes the abstruse proposal actually to offer Milosevic compensation for Kosovo by separating Republika Srpska from the State of Bosnia, which is recognised under international law, and allowing him to annex it.
As long as ideas of this kind lurk at the back of the mind of a good many negotiators, Milosevic will succeed in stalling us and keeping the source of the blaze, Kosovo, alight.
He will continue to drive the Kosovar Albanians out; he is of course experienced in ethnic cleansing.
And in the end there will simply be fewer Albanians in Kosovo, in whose minority rights no one will really be interested any more, still less in defending them.
That, then, is my realistic assessment of the situation and those are the reasons for my fears.
But against my better judgement, I am still hoping for an agreement in Rambouillet and I have done all I can to influence the Albanians.
Only it must be clear - as Mr Swoboda has already said - that there should be no agreement unless it includes military monitoring!
Unless this is the case, any talk of reconstruction is likewise to no avail.
I wish the negotiating parties, and above all the Europeans, who thank God are also sitting at the negotiating table, success with all my heart, because the implementation of the Dayton Agreement in Bosnia - and it has already been pointed out that this is, unfortunately, like trying to square the circle - would also be made easier if Milosevic were finally to consider his real duties as a Yugoslav politician and abandon his aim of a greater Serbia.
However, it would be better for everyone in the region, and in particular the Serbs, if Milosevic were at last forced, as indeed he should be, to answer for his war crimes in The Hague.
