Mr President, so that the Minutes are correct, I should like to point out that the last letter of my name is an 'r' and not an 'n'.
Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, I have already had the opportunity of presenting the Council's views on the 1997 discharge procedure to your Budgetary Control Committee on 19 April.
The Council recommendation to give discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the 1997 budget is being made in spite of the fact that the Commission has already resigned.
As we know, the immediate cause of its resignation was the report of the Committee of Independent Experts on the responsibility of the Commission and individual members of the Commission for cases of fraud, mismanagement and nepotism which had occurred over a number of years.
I should like to state explicitly before Parliament that combating fraud is a matter of great concern to the Council.
The comments accompanying our recommendation to give discharge to the Commission in respect of the implementation of the 1997 budget make this crystal clear and leave no room for doubt.
In Vienna, the European Council reaffirmed that it attaches great importance to the efficient fight against fraud, corruption and other criminal activity affecting the European Union's financial interests.
It expressed the wish that the Council - together with the other institutions - should successfully complete its examination of the proposals on the table before the Cologne European Council in June.
I should like to confirm that our presidency is trying to have the so-called OLAF regulation - which we have in fact just been debating - adopted by the ECOFIN Council on 25 May, and is doing so in extremely close cooperation with you, the Parliament.
This cooperation - and this has been highlighted by all the speakers - has further intensified in recent weeks because this is a problem of which the general public is aware and it needs to be resolved swiftly.
There is no doubt that the Council, like Parliament and the Commission, is making every effort to combat fraud, including in particular outside the context of the discharge procedure.
If I may, I will now return to the actual reason for my being here, the discharge for 1997.
It is true that the Court of Auditors' report contains a whole host of negative comments on the implementation of the budget - some of which I will be addressing shortly - but it would be over-simplistic to lay the entire blame for the shortcomings which have arisen at the door of the Commission.
They are partly the result of structural deficiencies to which the Member States have also contributed.
In making our recommendation, however, we also wish to acknowledge the efforts which the Commission has made so successfully in many sectors to tighten up financial management.
In the midst of all the criticism, this should not be forgotten.
Nevertheless, I should like to address a few points where there are particular grounds for criticism.
Firstly, I should like to stress how important it is to ensure that the internal organisation of the Commission is conducive to the efficient management of programmes.
For this to be the case, clear objectives need to be set which allow the efficiency of Community actions to be assessed accurately.
The Council is also very concerned about the fact that appropriations for general information measures and measures to provide the public with information about the European Union are still being utilised without a legal base.
In addition, the Council is unhappy that there are still numerous irregularities associated with payments made under the European Agricultural Guidance and Guarantee Fund and for structural measures.
Nor is it justifiable that, contrary to the Financial Regulation - and I stress, contrary to the Financial Regulation - it is common practice in the field of research in particular to pay advances before the number of participants or the costs of the activities concerned are known.
Finally, it is regrettable that only a small proportion of the payment appropriations for external aid - and in particular for the priority programmes - has been used.
As far as the statement of assurance is concerned, the Council is deeply concerned that the Court of Auditors still has not been able to make a statement of this kind because a large number of mistakes are still being made with the implementation of payments.
Hardly any improvements can be noted on the previous financial year.
Having made these criticisms, I should also like to make a few more positive remarks.
The amendments made to the Financial Regulation in November 1998 have enabled financial control to be modernised, in particular as far as the release of unutilised appropriations is concerned.
But like the European Court of Justice - and probably also Parliament - the Council attaches great importance to the Financial Regulation being thoroughly modernised and completely recast.
We urgently request the Commission to table proposals to this effect.
I should also like to draw attention to the measures taken under the SEM 2000 initiative, thanks to which it has been possible to tighten up financial management considerably.
As the rapporteur for the 1997 discharge procedure, Mr Brinkhorst, emphasises, administrative cooperation both between the Commission and the Member States and among the Member States themselves needs to be stepped up further, given that a large proportion of the budget is implemented by the Member States.
Of course, this does not alter the fact that the Commission bears the responsibility for implementing the budget.
When it examined the 1997 annual report of the Court of Auditors, the Council also took into consideration all 25 special reports drawn up during 1998.
On some of them it jointly adopted specific conclusions, which have been included in the recommendation.
Finally, I should like to emphasise that the budgetary authority and the Member States need to ensure that taxpayers' money is not only accounted for properly but also used as efficiently as possible.
The Council is firmly resolved to work towards further improving the financial management of the Community.
This is a long-term task for all those who are responsible for managing Community funds.
In conclusion, I should like to mention a few points which played a part in the discussion with your Budgetary Control Committee, Mrs Theato.
It was suggested that we should hold a trilogue, or at least a dialogue, with you before the Council adopts its recommendation to grant discharge.
I am sorry, but we are rather hesitant about this suggestion.
We believe that the Council should first carry out the task which it is assigned in the Treaty of scrutinising the documents, and that only afterwards should we discuss the results with you.
We do agree with you, however, that the questions which have been raised need to be taken into account during the forthcoming reform of the Financial Regulation.
Your suggestion to further step up cooperation between national financial experts and between them and the Commission is something which we view favourably.
I am sure that further suggestions will now be made in the debate which I will then be able to pass on to the Council.
Thank you for your attention.
