Madam President, the Rules of Procedure are intended to enable decisions on issues of substance to be made and if possible to make this process easier, not to make it more difficult or even obstruct it.
Unfortunately, this has not always been the case, and both the chairman of the Rules Committee, Mr Fayot, and Mr Corbett specifically referred just now to the particular circumstances in this instance.
We remember that in the 1996 discharge procedure, inconsistencies and provisions which were contrary to the Treaty came to light; this was because Annex V laid down a larger majority for not granting discharge than the Treaty itself prescribes in Article 141 of the EC Treaty.
That was the main problem!
Mr Corbett has in fact pointed out that there was support in Parliament for making something more of this relatively clear provision in the Treaty than it actually stated and still does state.
That also contributed to the problems we experienced during the 1996 discharge which have already been mentioned.
As a result of this situation, the chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, acting on the instructions of the committee, made a request in this House on 15 January 1999 for the Rules Committee to clarify precisely what the Treaty itself provides for, that is to say for the direct link between refusal of discharge and a possible censure procedure to be removed.
That has now happened.
We ought - and here I fully agree with Mr Corbett - to thank very much the chairman of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, Mr Fayot, for dealing with the matter brought to his committee by the Committee on Budgetary Control very swiftly and for being so willing to cooperate.
We should also like to thank Mr Fayot for his work in the committee as a whole, and the fact that this committee will cease to exist in its current form - and this is the final point on which I agree with Mr Corbett - should not be seen as reflecting an unfavourable assessment of the work of the committee and especially not the work of its chairman; this is actually happening because in future we want important matters which relate to each other to be dealt with together.
Seen in this light, a considerable amount of the work of the Committee on Budgetary Control will be in good hands in the future Constitutional Affairs Committee.
