Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, as the last speaker on this item, let me examine the problem under a slightly different light.
What are jobs with a future?
The crucial thing is not the type of work that will be done, but rather whether jobs will still be available in the future.
The way I see it, some of the jobs of the future already exist.
And so what I should like to analyse is why these jobs of the present have a future.
That is not even a difficult task.
The management team or, in smaller businesses, the manager, must be quick to recognise market openings for their products and services and must adjust their range rapidly to keep up with customer demand.
To that end they require employees who are well trained, highly motivated and always prepared to undergo further training.
Such workforces do not grow on trees.
They need to be well treated, well informed and well paid.
Greater flexibility is more essential than ever today, but it must be a two-way flexibility that benefits not only the company but its employees too.
Modern workday patterns must not be detrimental to employees, as the latest example from the Volkswagen works in Wolfsburg illustrates.
Duties at work must not exclude anyone from his or her own family or from society.
National governments must play their part with a balanced taxation system, including tax relief where necessary, and must not capitulate under pressure, as in the case of your new government's DEM 630 legislation, Mrs Weiler.
So much for my basic analysis.
Inadequate school education, a lack of vocational training, an absence of further education and insufficient skills prevent many people from obtaining employment.
Discrimination against the older age groups and against disabled people must henceforth be prohibited by law.
We in Europe should learn from one another in this field.
The rapporteur, Thomas Mann, has made many good proposals.
The latest technological developments and in particular the service sector offer opportunities for the creation of secure, sustainable employment in which women and men would enjoy real equality.
I am all for defending the welfare state in the market economies of Europe, but I reject any attempt to spoonfeed people, because that could prevent the creation of jobs with a future.
