Mr President, perhaps I will not need my whole seven minutes of speaking time.
After all, one can keep it a bit shorter.
We transport politicians always try to be precise, without letting things get out of hand.
When we began working on the TENs in 1994, it was clear from the outset that the TENs will not be some unique event that suddenly erupts like a volcano, something that is decided just like that; what was clear is that there will be a process that will continue for a number of years and will also have to be reviewed constantly.
That is why the 1996 decision taken by the Council and Parliament is sensibly entitled 'Guidelines for the development of the trans-European transport network'.
During the conciliation procedure the Council and Parliament could not agree on what Parliament called for at the time, namely the need to include ports in the TENs.
I think that anyone with any brains and common sense will realise that a transport network without interconnection points is an incomplete system, but then nobody has ever pretended that every member of the Council shines with common sense.
I would never go so far as to say that.
During the conciliation procedure the Commission - indeed you, Commissioner - declared that a proposal on seaports would be on the table immediately.
Immediately took rather longer than we would normally understand by the word.
But in the end we did get what I would regard as a very sensible proposal, namely to bring seaports, inland ports and intermodal terminals together in one proposal.
It makes sense because all three are after all transport connection points and as such they are indeed the condition for linking the various transport modes together.
Moreover, seaports and inland connection points interact with one another and are a significant factor in the development of intermodal transport.
The market is crucial to the development of seaports.
We do not deny that either and so when we lay down European criteria for seaports this must not lead to any distortions of competition.
But regarding the volume criterion, I believe that a traffic volume of 1.5 million tonnes of freight a year is quite certainly more appropriate for a European network than the 1 million proposed by the Commission.
What is totally incomprehensible, however, is the Commission's specifications for seaports.
Quite rightly, there is a great deal of detail about port infrastructure, but in the end the Commission proposal says that infrastructure projects are not eligible for aid!
We, and indeed I, regard that as totally wrong.
We stick to our original approach: we want to recognise port infrastructure as eligible for aid on principle, but certainly not superstructure, which is a different matter.
To make it quite clear what infrastructure means, my report proposes a basic definition of the term.
After all, we have all sorts of fancies in our mind about all the things that could be supported.
But if these are to be kept in check, we must also have a basic definition of what infrastructure means in the future networks.
The situation regarding inland ports is somewhat different.
Of course, as the Commission proposes, they should be equipped with transhipment installations for intermodal transport; that would be one criterion.
But those inland ports that only tranship bulk freight should have an annual traffic volume of at least 500 000 tonnes of freight.
The Transport Committee is adding that criterion to the report.
There are two other points I would like to address.
The Commission also wants to include rail freight freeways in the TENs.
Parliament has always supported the Commission and you personally, Commissioner, on the matter of freeways.
We think this is necessary in order to move more freight from the roads to the railways.
And we continue to support you.
However, by virtue of their construction, the freeways are a service installation and not an infrastructure.
That is why both I and the committee believe that in terms of the system - not of the principle, where we entirely agree - they do not belong in the TENs, simply because they are not an infrastructure.
Then there is the famous project No 8 of the 14 very important projects endorsed by the Essen summit.
For God's sake, these projects have been examined a thousand times as to whether they can go ahead!
The Christophersen Group went to great trouble, and now everything is to be changed again!
This is certainly not a glorious chapter in the annals of the Council.
But I believe Parliament and the Commission should both forgive and forget here and say yes, while specifying one thing, namely that to be precise project No 8 is a project consisting of several individual projects.
And that is the basis on which we should decide tomorrow.
All that remains is for me to thank my colleagues in the committee for their cooperation, to also thank the Commission departments with whom we also cooperated, and finally to call on the Council to finally get round to producing a common position before the end of the legislative term, so that we can get on with this in the autumn.
Finally, on principle the Commission is considering possibly presenting a white paper on the basis of its review of the networks.
We think that is wrong.
Article 21 of the decision provides that the review shall be followed by Commission proposals, which means we should not rethink the whole matter again in the form of a white paper.
That is why we expect the review, when it finally appears, to put forward new, revised proposals, but not, so to speak, to start from scratch again.
We have worked on the networks too long for this to happen.
That is why it is useful to have the completed proposal on the table now.
I can only wish the Commissioner luck in his work and hope that we will manage to achieve a common position during this electoral term.
