Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, first, of course, thank you very much for your praise of our work.
It is a pleasure not just to be criticised for hard work but occasionally - in this Parliament at least - also to hear words of praise.
Naturally I shall begin by responding to the critical comments that have been made.
And I am happy to do so.
But let me say at the outset that I am pleased there has been agreement on the Kosovo issue here in Parliament, barring a very few critical voices.
I have taken careful note of Parliament's strong reactions to the human rights violations in Kosovo and of its resolute support - or at least the support of a very large majority of Members - for the western position.
In evaluating the situation, let me go back to what one Member of your Parliament, Mrs Pack, had to say.
In my view she gave a very accurate analysis and accurate description of the risks that could arise if the international community does not continue to take resolute action with a view to reaching a political solution to the Kosovo crisis through a mixture of military measures and, of course, political activities.
It must be clear to all that we must not confuse cause and effect.
The cause of the conflict is Milosevic's criminal policy and the sole purpose of the effect we want to achieve by, for example, the military measures, is to protect the people in Kosovo and to reach a political solution.
Let me emphatically underline what was said here.
Our intention is not to punish anyone but to achieve the designated objective of bringing an end to a humanitarian disaster that is expanding and accelerating, so as to prevent even more people from dying.
Applause
I am glad to be able to say that the Council and Parliament are entirely at one on this!
Secondly, regarding the critical comments on the Berlin results, I fully understand what Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, for instance, said about agricultural policy and the fact that we did not manage to achieve all our objectives, not even those which, looked at in isolation, can be regarded as extremely sensible, such as stabilising smaller undertakings even more than proved possible.
That is partly because the different Member States have different interests and want to assert them.
Of course the agricultural part, like the part relating to the Structural and Cohesion Funds and like the financing part, is in fact a compromise, with all the strengths but also the weaknesses of any compromise.
To reassure you, let me say to you, Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf, that if I had been able to act on my own, I would have responded more closely to your wishes!
But that was not possible, as everyone will easily understand - nor indeed was it at all desirable.
Laughter
Secondly, regarding the Structural and Cohesion Funds, I noted that we did not match up to some of your expectations.
Nor could we, for some Member States are mainly contributors to these funds - and I do not just mean Germany, do not misunderstand me here - while others profit from both funds.
That quite naturally creates opposing interests, that can only be reconciled through compromise.
I believe that in regard to the size and shape of the two funds, it has become clear that all in all we have found a sensible compromise.
As far as Parliament's interests are concerned, there will after all still be negotiations about flexibility and other similar demands that have been made.
I believe these negotiations will be conducted in an equally determined and purposeful manner.
At any rate, that is what the Council wants, as in the case of the negotiations that have now been concluded on preparing for the necessary legal acts.
Here I am optimistic that we will manage to achieve the sensible measure of flexibility that Parliament wants.
Applause
I can only underline what has been said about further-reaching aims.
Of course what we must now do is to get the institutional reform underway, and not least because besides the financial architecture, institutional reform is one of the real conditions for the success of the enlargement process.
Only if we manage really to achieve the institutional reforms in parallel with the accession negotiations will we be able to keep to the scheduled timetable for accession.
Without institutional reforms, the greater Europe, one that does not stop at the eastern border of Germany, would become ungovernable.
I believe that the Members of this Parliament know that, but the Council knows it too.
This is indeed one of the very major tasks, and although it cannot be achieved during our presidency we can at least get it underway.
On the two other major objectives referred to in this debate, namely to draw up the common foreign and security policy, to safeguard it institutionally and to appoint a genuinely important and significant personality to represent and conduct this common foreign policy, in Cologne we want to decide on the person to be appointed and of course make progress in substantive terms.
Here too we feel we are being held accountable to Parliament, and quite rightly so.
We really do want to work on this.
It must be equally clear - and here I am especially addressing the critics of European employment policy - that European employment policy, the employment pact we want to forge, must not be seen as a substitute for national employment policies.
It would be quite wrong to perceive it as such; rather, it should be seen as usefully supplementing national policies.
That is the aim we are pursuing.
If we could manage to direct the Member States' considerable resources more towards this objective through coordinated national budgetary policies, and if, on top of that, we could also manage to direct European resources towards this objective, then I believe we really would be doing something to combat unemployment, especially youth unemployment, in Europe.
We would also be making an immense contribution towards anchoring the idea of Europe more firmly in the minds of our young people than some of us may have managed in the past.
That is what we want to discuss and set in motion in Cologne.
On the question of relations with Parliament, let me offer a concluding remark.
Like any head of government controlled and elected by Parliament, I naturally respect the Members of Parliament.
But as a government we are self-assured enough to indeed accept and recognize the rights of the MEPs but also to point out that it is still up to us to legitimise policies, such as expenditure policy, so long as there are no radical changes.
We have to explain to people why and how much they are to pay out and what for.
That form of legitimation also gives us a certain self-assurance.
I look forward to a constructive dialogue with Members of Parliament, with Parliament itself, in which no-one gives any special treatment to anyone else but both sides know that Europe can prosper only if the institutions are able and become even more able to work together.
In this regard I have one more point to make.
It is a question of the ceterum censeo that has been mentioned in many statements, the ceterum censeo about inviting the President to today's informal meeting.
We have on occasion issued such an invitation, and we will do so again.
The reason for our decision today is quite simple.
Firstly, I will be seeing the President and talking to him very soon, and secondly we really convened this informal summit in order to talk with Mr Prodi.
Parliament has already had talks with Mr Prodi, so an invitation did not seem necessary.
Moreover, it was clear that against the background of developments, in this situation the Heads of State and Government cannot meet without discussing Kosovo.
We have exactly an hour and a half for this.
That is the reason why we did not invite the President of your Parliament, it is not because of any reservations about the President and even less about Parliament - and we will certainly not make a habit of this.
Even if indeed you cannot agree, at least I would ask you to understand and to believe me when I say it was neither a question of disrespect nor of rudeness, but simply a question of time.
I hope I have managed to answer some of the objections.
I thank the Members of this Parliament and the President for giving me an opportunity to speak here.
It was an honour.
And I also thank you for letting me reply to your statements.
I wish you much success in your work and much success for all of us who are in and for Europe.
Applause
