Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it seems that everyone wants to have their say today.
Seldom have such great expectations been held of an EU presidency as of the German Presidency in the first half of 1999.
Bringing Agenda 2000 to a successful conclusion is almost equivalent to squaring the circle.
You may be able to bring our negative response to the proposals back to the Council in time, Mr Funke.
The content of the new agricultural policy must be finalised quickly, by the end of February, and my question is: are the Ministers of Agriculture still involved in any way in determining policy, or will the Heads of State and Government set the financial framework in advance at the summit in March?
The time for questions is long past.
Specific options are required, and farmers want finally to know where we are headed.
Yesterday in the House Mr Fischer, the German Foreign Minister, called for a reduction in agricultural expenditure.
However, he also promised support for European farmers.
Mr Funke, I am sure you will be able to explain this confusion.
You speak in a very straightforward way that I really like; you have not adopted this technocrats' German, and please do not do so.
But to achieve the same result with less and less money is, in my view, a very difficult task.
Financial leeway is becoming limited in the search for solutions and there is not very much room for manoeuvre.
Perhaps this reform is the last available.
Following enlargement towards the east, the emphasis is increasingly on liberalisation, which our farmers know, but in my view the solutions that must now be negotiated under Agenda 2000 are only an intermediate stage.
In 2005, following the accession of the first group of applicant countries from Central and Eastern Europe, agricultural policy will be under the microscope once again.
As a member of the farming community, I really cannot endorse the discussion about price reductions.
In twenty years of professional involvement in agricultural policy I have never seen consumer prices fall as a result of lower agricultural prices.
Mr Funk said the same this morning.
We have a German expression: although cereal is becoming cheaper, bread is becoming dearer.
I could also say that although milk is becoming cheaper, yogurt is becoming dearer; you can be fairly sure of that.
In order to lay down Community rules for direct payments, which was my task as shadow rapporteur, I would also like to ask the Commissioner what these regions must commit themselves to paying their farmers if they can expect higher environmental requirements at the Commission's insistence, as is currently planned.
I know what I am talking about; I come from North Rhine-Westphalia and our farmers may be able to handle increased environmental requirements, but the question is: who will pay?
My second and final question concerns the sliding scale of direct payments to farmers in accordance with the number of workers, as Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf proposes.
Please simply tell me whether you accept Amendment No 27 or not.
Then we will be in agreement.
