Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first of all I should like to express my sincere thanks to Mr Garot for taking this initiative and enabling us to deal with this resolution here and now.
I believe this resolution has to address four problem areas and that each of them is actually very important in its own right.
First of all there is the question of the competitiveness of the European starch industry, and then there are the Berlin decisions on oilseeds and protein plants, which as we now know are entirely inadequate and completely incapable of overcoming the prevailing deficit in these markets and therefore of little use to us in their present form.
Thirdly, it is crucial that the Commission should pursue and develop a more active policy in the realm of non-food crops, because we have simply ground to a halt somewhere along the line.
We have conducted a great many experiments.
We have developed organic oils for use in protected water-collection areas, at places such as Lake Constance and other popular tourist destinations where the use of conventional mineral oils would cause severe pollution.
But progress is not being made.
The process of introducing these products into the market is stagnating.
Our policies have been based on the principle of pushing forward a little and then retreating a little.
That will have to change, otherwise nothing good will come of our efforts.
Lastly, it is also about competition between grain and potato starch production, for they each have different production costs, which means that harmonisation is required.
In short, Commissioner, the issue is this: instead of financing surpluses, we must invest in markets that still operate efficiently.
The work on the Agenda 2000 decisions must begin now.
They provide a rough framework that cannot give us any cause for satisfaction.
But of course it is ultimately the responsibility of Parliament and the Commission to develop that framework and above all to grasp the opportunities that these markets still offer, opportunities that are no longer available in the realm of mass production, where we have lost the initiative.
We must look for our opportunities in areas where we can help the environment, and we are not doing nearly enough in that respect.
That is why it is imperative to take this action.
