Mr President, let me express my thanks for the preceding remarks and extend a special welcome to my honourable colleague the Transport Commissioner.
I am delighted that we have been given another rare opportunity to discuss this matter in the morning, rather than at 11 o'clock on Tuesday night.
But let us turn to the business in hand.
I believe that the Commission has adopted an excellent approach in the directive.
As a native of Hamburg, I am pleased to see that it incorporates all the results of a European international conference on the issue of port waste-discharge facilities, which was held in Hamburg.
Practice has shown us, of course, that the Marpol Convention with its discharge requirement for ships is inadequate.
We must ensure that the waste on board ships is actually discharged.
If we say here that the ports must provide discharge facilities and that everyone will have to pay anyway under a no-special-fee system, I believe that more captains will decide to use the port discharge facility, since they have paid directly for it in their harbour dues.
This is a very important issue, because we have no other way of cleaning up our beaches, especially those on the North Sea and Baltic coasts.
We still have a lot to do here, but the same can be said for the Mediterranean and other parts of the European Union.
The approach, then, is exactly the right one.
I thank Mr Lagendijk, who is a new member of the Committee on Transport and Tourism, for his excellent cooperation.
I believe the committee adopted the recommendation unanimously, and it is a good thing and to be applauded that all the groups in this House are pulling in the same direction on this occasion, promoting environmental protection without neglecting economic interests.
Allow me to deal briefly with two more points.
We have tabled a number of amendments, and I hope the Commission will be able to approve them all, Mr Kinnock.
At any rate, I should like to highlight two things.
First of all, the Commission must be urged to ensure that the system of charges now being introduced does not distort competition between ports.
It is to be expected that one port or another will try to offer a particularly attractive scale of charges or to obtain particularly large profit margins in order to secure a competitive edge in the usual conflict, so to speak, that occurs between ports over cargoes.
The Commission must be watchful, and we may have to beef up the legislation.
I also believe, as the rapporteur said, that we must require Member States and ports to ensure that 25 % of all ships are actually inspected every year.
After all, we are familiar with the problem of inadequate control from our experience with rest periods for long-distance lorry drivers.
We had to tighten up there, because the Member States were not sticking to the rules.
That, Commissioner, should not be a problem either, since we have the same figure of 25 % in the port state control directive.
One and the same official may be able to carry out both types of check.
We need effective control of waste discharge, for the sake of the sea and for the sake of animal and human life.
