Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we have heard Mrs Van Lancker say that she does not want a neo-liberal recipe book; in response, I can only say that nor do we want the employment policy guidelines to become a Socialist book of fairytales.
I should like to thank Mr Fourçans and Commissioner de Silguy very much for explaining their economic policy guidelines so clearly both here and in the documents.
I know that they have been the subject of much controversy for many years.
Today we have the euro, and today no one is disputing the fact that their proposals are right nor that Mr Menrad's report, which covers the employment policy side, is a very good report, which can be debated here alongside the Fourçans report.
Listening to Mrs Randzio-Plath, I do wonder whether she has actually already given up on the stability and growth pact.
After all, she has repeatedly stressed these points in the committee as well.
I think it is absolutely essential for the three most important aspects to be respected, that is the stability and growth pact, a wage policy geared to productivity, and the need for structural reform.
In recent weeks and months, we have discussed what economic and financial strategy is right for the euro zone time and again.
Article 105 of the EU Treaty leaves no room for ambiguity here.
As far as the European Central Bank's tasks are concerned, economic policy is clearly secondary to price stability.
Should we step up coordination of economic policy?
Yes, that is also laid down in the Treaty.
Should a conventional interventionist economic policy à la Keynes be pursued to control the economy?
No!
Chronic unemployment in Europe will not be eliminated by means of a European employment programme or by the Member States in the European economic and monetary union having a uniform economic policy, but by means of structural reform.
There can be no doubt that the stability pact was right, is right and will continue to be right.
I see that Mr Diller, Parliamentary State Secretary in the Federal Ministry of Finance, is with us.
Your former boss, Mr Lafontaine, came up against a brick wall in Europe with his ideas on this subject, did he not?
Basically, he failed.
It is true that monetary policy should not be obstructive to economic and financial policy.
Of course it is also true that if there are stable interest rates, stable prices and low interest rates, Member States will have considerably more scope to eliminate chronic unemployment than they had before.
It is therefore necessary not to ease budgetary discipline; to do so would not be prudent, as Mr Herman has emphasised.
On the reform measures, several colleagues have mentioned flexible labour markets.
Mrs Van Lancker spoke about the pension system.
I think that Germany, which has a pension system funded by contributions, will actually experience serious difficulties in the long term, and that in one generation it will simply not be possible to build up a fund system to run alongside the contributions system.
Very wide-ranging structural reforms are therefore required, which must prevent problems also being caused by the State placing too great a burden on GNP, unduly high taxes and social and benefits policies making excessive demands.
If coordinating economic policy triggers a process of learning and competition, with people asking 'How do the other countries actually go about this?' then this will achieve more than illusionary spending programmes.
Competition between the countries in the euro zone will call many traditional systems into question.
I believe that this is right and proper!
