Madam President, I wish that Mrs Lindeperg could have had a better time-slot and a fuller House for this debate.
Not only is it one of the most important reports we have discussed for a long time, it is also one of the most outstanding.
It demonstrates, with depressing sobriety and enormous clarity, that we find ourselves slipping into a human rights dilemma or even a human rights emergency.
Many of the Members not here today would, if they were to study this report, very probably have to stop telling the public that asylum, in terms of human rights and international law, is not under attack.
It is.
Mr Pirker, on the other hand, is an example of someone quite capable of maintaining all his aggressive prejudices despite being in possession of the facts.
I would really like to know how you can escape into Europe.
I think you would need to be the invisible man or jump down from a satellite.
Otherwise, it will soon be impossible to penetrate this continent famed for its justice and human rights.
We have abolished the right to asylum within the European Union, despite the Geneva Convention and current international law.
We have simply taken matters into our own hands, and no one is doing anything about it.
Outside the EU, we have created a cordon of states that we have lumped together as being safe third countries, thus flying in the face of the Geneva Convention and current international law.
Under the Geneva Convention, an applicant is only entitled to asylum if a justified fear of persecution can be demonstrated.
We have changed the criterion to one of proving that persecution is a fact.
We are constantly raising the hurdles, creating barriers and imposing new conditions, so that it has become virtually impossible to get into Europe.
The end result is mass deportations, children held in pre-expulsion detention centres, families torn apart, and refugees being repatriated to countries where they are in danger of life and limb.
That is where we now stand in the European Union, which when it wants to implement something like the internal market, the euro or competition law, applies itself with great determination, but which is achieving less and less when it comes to human rights and democracy, the underlying principles of the Union.
