Madam President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, the Group of the European People' s Party and European Democrats yesterday had a passionate debate about how we should vote today.
The previous President of the European Commission, Jacques Santer, made a remarkable and impressive contribution to this debate.
I would like to begin this short statement by giving a heart-felt word of thanks, respect and acknowledgement to our colleague and friend, Jacques Santer, for his wonderful contribution to Europe as Prime Minister of Luxembourg and as President of the European Commission.
In this debate among our group, questions were also put and doubts expressed, both of which remain.
This fact cannot be concealed and because of this we also have respect for the stance adopted by those who vote differently to the majority of our group.
The overwhelming majority of our group will say "yes" to the Commission of Romano Prodi.
But this is neither a blank cheque nor carte blanche.
We will take you at your word, Mr Prodi, in other words, we will follow very closely whether, following your confirmation of appointment before the European Parliament, you fulfil the obligations you entered into prior to that confirmation.
We expect you to discuss your programme up to the year 2005 with Parliament and that it will be a politically balanced programme.
You have committed yourself in this regard and, above all, you have once again committed yourself to the five points.
I would like to express my sincere thanks to my colleagues across all the groups, Mr Hänsch, Mr Costa, Mrs Hautala, Messrs Collins and Bonde, for the fact that we succeeded, after yesterday' s two-hour debate between our group' s chairmen, in today passing a resolution with such a large majority.
It is our duty, as the European Parliament, to speak with one voice when talking about the key questions surrounding the future of Europe.
The resolution would have been approved with an even greater majority if the translation had been available in a certain language for one of the groups.
Because it was not, this group did not give its assent.
You can see that the problems faced by Parliament are similar to those of the Commission, but that also gives a human side to the European Union.
Allow me one final observation.
In recent weeks, we have made great strides in co-operation.
It is now our task to continue along this path towards democracy and parliamentarianism and, above all, to satisfy the hopes of the countries in central Europe of being able to join our community of law, peace and freedom.
In this sense, we say "yes" to the Commission-designate.
(Applause)
