Mr President, I too should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and his colleagues, because they have produced a very good piece of work.
This new Commission proposal has taken us down a different path from the one we took in 1994 and 1995.
At that time, Parliament was split.
The proposal, Commissioner Fischler, was also not nearly as good as this one.
Circumstances have changed in some respects, while in others they have remained the same.
Compared with the 1980s, surpluses have tended to decrease.
Unfortunately, per capita consumption has fallen in the main producer countries, Italy and France.
As a result of the GATT round, we have new competitors in the quality wine sector, a fact which we have borne in mind, and this is where we have made real progress under the leadership of the rapporteur, Mr Martin: in this Parliament, we have finally accepted the special regional characteristics of wine growing in the north and south of Europe.
That is where the real progress has been made.
That is why my group, the PPE, has not, as a group, tabled any amendments to the Agriculture Committee's proposal and against Mr Martin's compromises.
I should like once again to outline briefly why we have acted in this way.
I believe that in this new proposal, we have successfully put right what was wrong with the old organisation of the market in wine.
Take the subject of distillation for a start.
Compulsory distillation has not proved its worth.
It is right to make it voluntary.
On the other hand, it is also right - and that is why we have also voted in favour of various compromises - for the potable alcohol market to have a guaranteed supply of wine, for example for cognac, brandy and other products which are traditional regional specialities.
Secondly, for the very first time we have a legal base for producer associations and trade organisations.
We want to make this rather less complicated than it is in the Commission proposal.
That is why we support the Agriculture Committee's call for a framework regulation.
There is - we have agreed in our group - just one point on which we wish to depart from the compromise.
This relates to the first indent of Amendment No 179.
Mr Martin, we have agreed that we want to settle the issue of compulsory packaging in the area of production - as previously discussed - in the Lulling report and not now, and that we want, above all, to wait for the decision of the European Court of Justice on this issue.
We will be voting against the first indent at that point.
On all the other issues, however, we have supported reasonable compromises, on the status quo for saccharose, on oenological procedures and on diverse traditions.
I believe that overall we can vote in favour of this draft report.
For the first time, Parliament has the opportunity to speak with one voice on this very controversial issue and thus - and most importantly - to influence the Commission and the Agriculture Council.
Applause
