Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, the German Presidency began on a historic day, 1 January 1999, the day when European monetary union became a reality.
At first people derided this project as merely a vision, but thanks to resolute action it has become a reality.
Monetary union is the achievement of many people.
But at the beginning of this German Presidency I would like to give thanks on behalf of the PPE Group to a figure who took Germany through three presidencies, in 1983, 1988 and 1994.
I want to thank Helmut Kohl, former Chancellor of the Federal Republic of Germany and freeman of Europe.
Applause
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we wish this German Presidency the same resolve, the same dynamism, the same courage that Helmut Kohl displayed for Germany and in Europe.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we hope that in your words and your actions you will manage not just to maintain but to further strengthen our European partners' trust in Germany's European policy.
We regret the fact - and this is not a question of party politics - that the use of the term realism has given the impression that the accession process is to be delayed.
Happily you expressed yourself in such a way today that we can endorse what you said; nevertheless this impression has been created.
President Kwasniewski of Poland sounded the alarm when he spoke here in Parliament on 18 November of sending out a wrong signal that could discourage the people of Central Europe from pursuing their reform process.
Let us encourage the people of Central Europe!
We call on them to speed up the accession process!
We have a political and moral duty to do our utmost to ensure that the people of Central Europe can join the European Union's community of values as quickly as possible.
That is also a question of trust.
What German policy accomplished over a period of 16 years, and of course before that too, must not come to nought!
But that also means that we must not engage in any foolhardy debate about a changed North Atlantic Alliance strategy.
That too is a question of the trust the people of Central Europe place in us.
Of course we know it is difficult for our own people to accept the need for rapid accession.
But politics is not about taking one's cue from daily opinion surveys; it is about doing the right thing and winning the people of Europe over to it.
Applause
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you said you want to submit proposals for institutional reform.
We welcome that and call on you to give the European Parliament an equal say with the Commission in these deliberations.
You want to adopt Agenda 2000 at the March summit.
We welcome that and wish you success in that endeavour!
You spoke of the German contribution.
Certainly everyone will have to make their contribution so that a fair solution can be reached.
Germany's net contribution is certainly high.
This needs rectifying.
But we hope that during the internal German discussion the presidency of the Council and its highest representatives will also point out that in 1997, for instance, Germany had a balance of trade surplus of DEM 81 billion with its other European Union partners.
That too is part of the truth and people must be told it!
Mixed reactions, heckling
High unemployment is a pressing problem for us too.
Here the European partners must learn from each other how to create more jobs.
But we would warn anyone against giving the impression that simply by elevating employment policy to European Union level this problem can be overcome, and then holding Europe responsible if unemployment cannot be dealt with at national level.
Europe must not be turned into a scapegoat!
We will not allow any political alibis in this regard.
Let me make a final remark.
The agreement reached by the Bonn coalition government - which is of European significance - provides that in the next European Commission both posts will be occupied by the government parties.
We want to make it quite clear: we hope that is not the federal government's last word, but if this German example sets a precedent and if the next European Commission is appointed on a one-sided political basis, then the European People's Party will not be able to give that Commission its vote of confidence.
We would ask you to take that into account!
Heckling
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, we wish you success during your presidency, for your success is Europe's success.
It is our common success in achieving a strong, democratic European Union which is capable of action, that will make it possible to secure peace and freedom in our old, constantly changing European continent in the 21st century.
Applause
