Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are currently experiencing two wars which do not entirely coincide.
In one war we have terrible pictures, even if they are mostly only pictures from Serbian television, of destruction, of a war conducted by air and with bombs.
But there is a second war in Kosovo, and of this we have no pictures.
We have refugees, deportees, turning up in Albania and Macedonia, but we do not see, we do not know what is happening in Kosovo.
It is a black hole.
The problem that we all have is that we want everything at once, in the longstanding tradition of some of our groups.
We want the war in Kosovo to end immediately, and we want the bombing to stop.
But there are some things we do not know.
We are putting our faith in Russia, which is right.
We are putting our faith in Kofi Annan, which is right.
We do not know how we can end these two wars together, in other words how to stop the massacres and the deportation in Kosovo so that the bombing of Serbia can stop.
The worst thing is the helplessness that we are trying to overcome diplomatically by means of the policy of peace that the EU and by the German Presidency are trying to pursue, a policy that is good.
How can we put up a struggle for these people, how do we gain the time to end these two wars together?
We all have good advice.
We all know how it should be done, so much so that hardly any Members are present for this debate.
We MEPs are always the best at giving good moral advice, but when it comes to seriously looking into a problem we have other things to do.
This is a situation that should certainly give us cause for thought.
I believe there is no alternative to the military intervention, and I say this because I know how terrible it is.
But I also believe that we must seize every opportunity to create diplomatic opportunities to bring the war in Kosovo to an end.
Otherwise, we have to say that there can be no solution that not does not involve allowing refugees and deportees from Kosovo to return to their country, with military support if necessary.
