Mr President, I must say that one pleasant side-effect of the debates in this House on the global climate is that we are always in agreement.
That is the one ray of sunshine.
But when we compare our declarations of intent with the actual outcome, the picture begins to cloud over.
I shall simply use the figures I have obtained from the Commission.
Total CO2 emissions in the European Union rose by 2 % between 1990 and 1996.
In 1997 there was a small reduction, but the winter weather was mild in 1997, and there is nothing to suggest that we have wrought any fundamental changes.
The reduction we saw in the first half of this decade, which has now given way to further increases, can be explained away.
We replaced coal with gas.
We replaced oil with gas.
As a result of German reunification, an entire region was deindustrialised.
In addition, existing plants were modernised.
These are processes that will not be repeated.
In other words, accelerated economic growth in particular means that, by the year 2000, we must expect CO2 emissions to be higher - and indeed measurably higher - than their 1990 levels.
Let me cite the example of my own federal state of Baden-Württemberg; it is quite a highly industrialised state.
Since 1995, per capita CO2 emissions have risen considerably there as a result of economic growth.
So the tide is definitely not turning.
That makes us stop and think.
Now of course we can say, 'Very well, we need to try harder' and so on.
But we have tried harder in some respects, as a result of which - and these too are Commission figures - there has been an average annual increase in energy efficiency of only 0.6 % since 1990, whereas 2 % increases were being achieved in the eighties and the late seventies.
That too makes us stop and think.
It implies that we are capable of achieving less now than we could manage ten or fifteen years ago.
What we need - and this is addressed to the Commission and more especially, of course, to the Council - is an action plan with measurable targets.
I should really like to know exactly what each country and each industry has to do, what is expected in terms of transport policy and even what households should be doing.
Above all, we have to ask ourselves how this can be funded.
So how can it be funded?
And this brings me to my final recommendation to the Commission.
Put something on the table here; suggest a way to reach agreement with the banks so that investments in the energy sector can be prefinanced, because funds are not being advanced at the present time for energy investments, and I believe this is the main reason why we are not making progress.
The technology is generally there, but the money is not!
