Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking Mrs van Bladel for her excellent report.
It has our full support.
As she said, and as my honourable colleague Mrs Karamanou has just stated, Albania is not only one of the weakest countries in economic terms, it is also lagging far behind the other countries in the development of democratic structures.
Its situation is similar to that of Bosnia-Herzegovina; in other words, Albania has to be financially drip-fed by the European Union.
We not only provide food aid.
We not only provide general reconstruction aid.
The European Union also spends money on the refugees from Kosovo who have found a temporary abode in Albania.
But the crucial point - and this is where we start to see the light - is that the last government reshuffle and the adoption of a constitution in Albania have laid the foundation stone for the construction of a stable system of government.
It is important to us, of course, to have a partner in whom we can have at least a reasonable degree of trust, and whom we can provide with the necessary funds to develop the structures of government and to ensure that the police and the armed forces return to their role as servants of the democratic order instead of being a law unto themselves, with all the problems which that has entailed in Albania over the past two to three years.
It is also crucial that Albania should gradually win over the confidence of the international financial system and of investors, that Albania should thereby become an interesting location for prospective investors in the long run, and that at the same time the conditions should be created in which welfare capitalism can flourish.
We have come a long way.
What we must do is to make sure that the control which is now required can also be extended to cover macrofinancial aid to a certain degree.
The very idea of macrofinancial aid, of course, is that it is not designed to fund specific projects, but to provide the state with a pool of funds with which it can perform and develop the tasks of government.
But I nevertheless consider it important that we strike a good balance between trust and verification, a balance that will also encourage the Albanians, the Albanian Government, to progress along the right path.
I have the impression that this financial aid of ours represents a small mosaic tile that Albania needs in order to go on constructing a stable future, and I hope that we shall soon see appropriate verification measures from the Commission to help ensure that this goal is achieved.
