Mr President, Commissioner, representatives of the presidency of the Council, the fact that we are discussing a framework directive today is thanks not least to Ian White.
A few months ago the situation still looked quite different.
The Commission wanted to present us with a communication - at the time I was the rapporteur and together we ensured that we would achieve this result today, in face of the rapid-fire decisions the Council wanted to take.
That is in itself a success.
As Members of this Parliament we must not forget that.
The object of the directive is not, as many of my colleagues believe, especially Austrians, that we want to regulate the ownership of water.
Quite the contrary: we want to protect the quality of water; that is the purpose of the directive.
Now it seems to me that the Council and the Commission want to propose that we should promise one another to protect the water, but how we protect it should be left to the Member States to decide.
I am not quite sure this is the right European approach.
I am not in favour of issuing thousands of bans, but I am in favour of issuing a few important bans and making them applicable throughout Europe.
They need to have sound scientific backing.
We decided to create the single market and one of the main objectives of the single market was to harmonise standards in the European Community, not necessarily to make them exactly the same, but to approximate them more closely.
We seem to be moving away from that at present in environmental policy.
You know what I am criticising.
Unfortunately, the directive on a framework for Community action in the field of water policy does not define Europe-wide quality standards and emission standards, at least not the way the Council and the Commission formulate it although that is certainly what Parliament wants to do.
I believe it is important to take this combined approach, which we want to and will continue to pursue in future too.
As someone who lives beside the Rhine - my house and my farm are a few hundred metres from it - I believe it is important that the local residents, whoever they are, make a start further up the river.
If they do not make a start there, if we Germans do not continue setting high standards, our colleagues in the Netherlands will soon be drowning in dirty, polluted water.
This cannot after all be a matter for individual, national policy-making; we need European standards, not hundreds of them but perhaps 40 or 50.
I believe the Rhine, the Rhone, the Mosel need these European standards if we are to make any progress here in the future.
The Council did not show any very serious commitment.
We turned 188 amendments into ten compromise amendments.
So we have done a little better than the Council.
The presidency of the Council has certainly achieved much in administrative terms.
But in my view Parliament's proposal was the better one.
We believe that if we get what the Council wants, we will find it complicated to regulate matters at national level and will end up with a Babylonian environment policy.
