Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, both the Commission proposal and the report before us are based on the premise that health should be sacrificed on the altar of structural policy.
As a non-smoker and farmer myself, I think it is important to recognise the double standards involved in the present form of tobacco subsidy.
I find it hard to believe that no other crop would thrive where tobacco is grown.
We need subsidies in that if we stop growing various tobacco varieties here, they would have to be bought in from outside the Community.
It is also clear that we need a change, an improvement in structural policy in the weak regions, in this case in Greece and Italy.
I accept that production cannot be stopped overnight in these countries, but I feel that we have been talking about this for far too long.
From my own national viewpoint, the Commission's proposals are acceptable.
Although the guarantee thresholds have been reduced, this reduction at the same time makes it possible to increase the premium for the northern countries.
But overall, I believe that these subsidies should be rejected in their present form.
Why?
Because increasing subsidies does not persuade tobacco-growing countries to switch to other crops, but if anything encourages them to carry on as before, because ironically enough the cigarettes that are most damaging to health are those that receive the greatest subsidy.
The Commission's proposals are quite simply market-oriented.
The quotas for varieties with guaranteed markets and high market prices are being gradually increased, whilst the quotas for varieties with weaker markets and low market prices are being correspondingly reduced.
For 28 years now tobacco production has been receiving massive support without any sign of a change of course.
The varieties produced in the Community are of low quality, and producers should show more ambition and switch their production to higher-quality varieties.
To conclude, let me ask what lessons we should be learning.
First, I believe that tobacco subsidies should be abolished by 2008.
Second, during the transitional period, they should be reduced in a socially acceptable manner.
Third, as part of this reduction process, less harmful varieties should receive support and varieties which are particularly damaging to health should no longer be subsidised.
Fourth, we should provide financial support during the transition period while production is switched to other agricultural products.
These suggestions are not anti-smoker, they are aimed at enhancing quality and improving health, and I believe that they also offer a solution for farmers.
