Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the success of the Agenda 2000 negotiations is closely linked to success in all parts of the Agenda, in other words to a compromise that we must all accept.
The reform of the common agricultural policy is a central pillar of the overall structure, but it is only together with the other pillars of reform that it can support the Agenda 2000 structure.
This means that the course for a successful financial reform must be set now in the context of the negotiations on the common agricultural policy.
It is obvious that proper financial regulations are not possible without appropriate changes in agriculture, the area that accounts for almost 50 % of the European budget.
As a financial manager myself, you will forgive me for being particularly annoyed by this.
President Santer rightly pointed out that the negotiations on the future financing of the budget represent one of the key elements of the Agenda 2000 negotiations.
But alongside the financial reforms support must also be given to the necessary agricultural policy reforms.
I do not agree with the assessment given by Commissioner Fischler this morning.
Cofinancing of agricultural policy measures, as proposed in some amendments, should not be dealt with separately from agricultural reform.
On the contrary, in our view it is one of the successful elements of the reform proposed for the agricultural sector, and it is clearly in line with the Commission's thinking in proposing to redirect the CAP away from price guarantees and towards income support.
If is it correct that we can assist rural areas more effectively by means of this redirection, the Commission should not have applied the brakes halfway through; not only should it have thought it through logically to the end but it should also have prescribed reform.
This also means that we have to put our faith in the tried and trusted mechanism of the Union and the Member States sharing joint responsibility for structural measures under the agricultural policy too.
In addition, Commissioner Fischler, if I had been you I would not have missed out on the dynamic effect of cofinancing.
There is no doubt that it increases willingness to discuss the scale and structure of the common agricultural policy objectively and in detail.
Awareness of the need for reforms, as proposed by the Commission, will increase rapidly in the Member States if in future the Ministers for Agriculture have to fight with their Ministers for Finance for part of the funding.
The proposed cofinancing is not in fact a means of solving net contributor problems but instead will play a crucial role in restoring the balance between market policy and income policy on the one hand and structural policy in rural areas on the other.
It is not a form of renationalisation, to reply to a fear that has just been expressed.
Like Mrs Boogerd-Quaak, I hope that the Committee on Budgets will find a majority in favour of cofinancing, as we need to show that almost 50 % of the budget is being used efficiently and is achieving results if we are to allow citizens to have confidence in the way their taxes are being used.
