Mr President, I can return Mr Torres Couto's compliment.
I think that a fine report has been produced here, thanks to some good cooperation in Parliament.
For our group, in any event, it was very gratifying to see how well we worked together.
This is an important report.
It is about upholding or actually creating fundamental freedoms and democracy in order to promote respect for human rights.
We can see how important this is in Europe at the moment: once again a war is being waged here.
I think that a democratic state with the participation of the people is the only way in which peace can be created in the long term, as we have seen over the last 50 years in Europe.
In the southern hemisphere, authoritarian regimes abound, as do aristocracies and regimes in which the people play no part.
In this respect, it is right and necessary for us to support efforts to encourage a transition to democracy and respect for human rights there.
That is why we can support this report more or less in full.
We have not gone along with you on one point, Amendment No 1, the reason being that we did not want 'proper management of public affairs' to be included - not because we are against it, but because the funding for this whole programme is so minimal that we need to focus our efforts.
We need to focus on respect for human rights and promoting fundamental freedoms.
Three other amendments which you accepted were important to us, the first of which is to Article 2.
Until now, the phrase on everyone's lips has been combating racism.
Fifty per cent of the world's work is done by women.
Women are particularly oppressed in these countries.
The inclusion of the phrase on opposing a policy of sexism is important, and the Council really should accept it too, as it should accept this whole Parliament report.
Finally, I have two further points: it is important to support smaller non-governmental organisations and smaller state-run bodies, because they are the ones which have a multiplier effect.
My last point is that supplies and payments in kind from the countries to ...
The President cut the speaker off
