Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, in the two minutes I have been allocated in this important debate I will merely state clearly, in view of the significance of the present reform proposals for the existence of European agriculture, that these proposals could have unreasonable consequences for agriculture and for the European economy and society as a whole.
They are therefore not acceptable unless they are amended as my group has recommended.
In addition, they are incompatible with the decisions made at the 1997 Luxembourg summit.
I would remind you that, following the exploratory debate by the Ministers of Agriculture on the European agriculture model, the EU Agriculture Council on 19 November 1997 unanimously requested that the agricultural reforms should be organised in such a way as to allow the European agriculture model to be maintained.
At the Luxembourg summit in December 1997 this demand was taken on board.
The Heads of State and Government declared themselves not only against unilaterally dismantling European agriculture but in favour of further developing the existing European agriculture model with its multifunctional role in all regions; this means that the provisions of the reform under discussion today must target solutions that make economic sense and are justifiable in social terms, and also allow farmers to achieve an appropriate income.
Why did the Commission, in presenting its drafts, pay so little attention to these options that were agreed at a high political level?
It is truly incredible.
In my small country the proposals in their present form would result in income losses of LUF 650 million, and would of course mean that agriculture would, quite unreasonably, be dependent on public finance.
This cannot be allowed.
I would also like to comment on milk production, which is such an important part of agriculture in Luxembourg.
We at least agree that the milk quotas must be retained.
However, the proposals as presented by Mr Goepel are the absolute minimum if we wish to prevent milk production from disappearing in many European regions.
I fear, Commissioner Fischler, that it is a naive fallacy if you would have us believe that the drastic price reductions you propose, which are so damaging to farmers, would allow consumers to enjoy price reductions in the order of EUR 10 to 17 billion.
The collapse of prices in the beef and pigmeat sectors has shown us that this is not the case, and you do not have a monopoly on political wisdom.
Listen to us and to the farmers a little, and then we will be able to find a balanced arrangement.
