Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to raise three points.
A major problem group throughout the European labour market of the future will consist not only of young people and adults without any training qualifications at all, but also those whose training qualifications are outdated or irrelevant.
Vocational training and further education systems must be adapted ever more rapidly to changing employment structures.
Joint efforts by the Member States to introduce innovations in this sector seem to hold the greatest promise.
Leonardo II in particular will offer excellent opportunities for cooperation in education and training, and it is imperative that these opportunities should be taken.
Secondly, the people of Europe have hitherto made little use of the single European job market.
A mere 2 % have been living and working for any length of time in a Member State other than their own.
Jobseekers are still too frequently unaware of employment opportunities beyond their national borders, and obstacles to the mobility of trainees and labour have still not been removed.
Initiatives such as EURES and Citizens First are steps in the right direction, but are not yet the complete answer.
It is up to Parliament, the Commission and the Council to launch new initiatives.
One particularly useful development has been the introduction of the Europass Training document, which guarantees the transparency of vocational qualifications acquired abroad.
Thirdly, additional employment opportunities can be created in Europe if new businesses are set up on the basis of innovative technology, new marketing potential or new service functions.
This, however, depends on young people in particular being able to take full advantage of these assets.
Even during initial training and then in the course of lifelong learning, entrepreneurship and knowledge of business practices must be imparted and encouraged.
At the same time, however, it is also necessary to eliminate excessive legal regulation, financial obstacles and information gaps.
The availability of venture capital, for example, is a key factor here.
Finally, may I again express my very sincere thanks to Thomas Mann for his excellent report.
