My thanks, Mr President, to the rapporteurs and those honourable Members who have spoken.
I shall try to deal briefly with some of the questions raised.
We follow the work of the three European standards organisations with close attention.
We meet with them at regular intervals.
The last time was just two weeks ago.
We talk about problems, for example the issue of transparency and efficiency, and we try to make the overall procedure as efficient and helpful for consumers and industry as possible.
Misconceptions will always arise, for example the misconception that our standards might create technical barriers, or alternatively that if we allow other countries such as the USA and Japan to use our standard, the Americans and Japanese will not reciprocate.
All these are misconceptions of the principle which underlies our standardisation work - and the work in the USA and basically in Japan as well.
I must repeat that, with an eye to the charge of protectionism levelled against us by the Americans.
We are not accusing the Americans of some kind of protectionism; it is the Americans who constantly accuse us of it, the latest example being UMTS.
This is quite untrue, because - and I say this once again most emphatically, since it is the essence of this policy - with a few exceptions which are necessary for reasons of safety or security, there are no standards which are mandatory.
No standards which are mandatory!
In other words, anyone - including this ingenious inventor with his universal plug - can market his products.
He does not have to comply with a standard.
He can market a product which is constructed quite differently.
What we want, especially with interoperable systems, is that a standard agreed on by the parties concerned, including consumers, trade unions and so on, should also to some degree be attractive, so that people accept it.
The attraction is basically that the manufacturer of a product - without any need for recognition by other Member States - can make the claim that this product meets the requirements of the European Union.
That is then the CE symbol and it gives him an advantage, if you like.
That is the system.
Now to your individual points.
Firstly: we already fund small and medium-sized enterprises and their participation.
We have no objections at all to transparency.
Anyone with a legitimate interest is free to take part in this process.
It may be a little longer as a result, but it is altogether possible.
Thirdly, I should say for the benefit of the rapporteur, Mrs Kestelijn-Sierens, that we have taken numerous initiatives involving potential new Member States of the Union, and with great success.
CEN, CENELEC and ETSI work very closely with the standards organisations of these countries.
We fund this work under PHARE and other accession-oriented financing programmes.
So in principle all that is being done.
One last comment regarding plugs: since the standards organisations are supported by business and industry and their work is funded by business and industry, it is perfectly understandable and obvious that in the current situation - which is not a problem for manufacturers, only for consumers - business and industry are not unduly interested in hearing that we ought to have standard plugs throughout the Union.
So they do nothing about it.
Member States too - and we could of course resolve this by political pressure, admittedly not for reasons of safety, but certainly very much in the consumer interest - are totally uninterested in applying a standard of this kind unless the standard adopted is the one already used in their own country.
Thus Denmark would be very keen to see Danish standards becoming European standards, and so on.
But that cannot of course be the right answer.
The right answer can only be to devise a European standard that is fully consistent with modern technical requirements.
We would then treat this standard the same as others; it would not be mandatory, but would bring certain advantages to the manufacturer.
If everyone manufactured their plugs to this standard, this would then mean not only that future plugs and sockets would look like that, but also of course that all existing plugs and sockets would then have to be converted, and you can imagine how much all that would cost.
That is why neither business and industry nor the consumer is all that keen on changing things.
But this report goes to the Council as well as to Parliament, and we shall be discussing it again with the Council.
In effect, this is a clear example of something on which there has been no European standardisation, although it has nothing at all to do with the work we do, and do successfully.
The way we go about the work of standardisation is the best in the world.
To quote just one example: GSM, the second generation of mobile phones.
With this standard, European manufacturers have captured two thirds of the world market.
If we complete UMTS, the third generation, successfully - and work is still ongoing because there are a few problems with intellectual property rights - if we succeed in this, and American and Japanese firms have also been involved with the work right from the start, we shall probably capture a bigger share of the world market than we did with GSM.
So we have no need at all to be modest about standardisation.
We are the world leader here!
