Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, Agenda 2000 has preoccupied us for months and in my opinion it required all those concerned to be deeply committed to it.
I should therefore like to begin by sincerely thanking Parliament, the Commission and the Council for the work that they have done.
Countless negotiating rounds had to be held in order to achieve an acceptable compromise.
Parliament was actively involved throughout the entire process and was able to influence the discussion.
We have always declared our support for the further development of the common agricultural policy and of rural development policy.
A radical course has been set for shaping the future European agricultural policy.
This involves strengthening rural development policy as the second pillar of agricultural policy.
A series of important environmental measures can still be pursued by means of this.
Environmental measures for farmers can be safeguarded in the long term, and hill farmers and farmers in disadvantaged regions can be given greater support.
I welcome the fact that the individual Member States have the opportunity to take part in the decision making.
Certainly, the lowering of intervention prices for beef and cereals could not have been avoided, but it is due among other things to the commitment of the European Parliament that these were not reduced on the scale originally proposed by the Commission.
I regret that agreement was not reached on the reforms in the milk sector.
However, in terms of promoting disadvantaged regions, the decision to continue with the milk quota system, even beyond 2008, is of prime importance as far as I am concerned.
With regard to matters which apply across the board, I certainly cannot agree to a degressive model of direct payments.
In principle, I should like to say that the compromise already worked out by the Commission, the Council and Parliament has produced satisfactory results as far as I can see.
On no account, however, should the outcome be jeopardised by the final vote which Parliament has yet to hold.
It is now up to the individual Member States to use their room for manoeuvre as nation states as far as possible, and there are a number of possibilities for examining national peculiarities.
These should also be taken into account for the benefit of our farmers, thereby creating and securing more jobs in rural areas.
Europe's farmers and thus our European cultural landscape must not be sacrificed in favour of the world market; instead, we are demanding fair conditions for European agriculture, and this also applies to future WTO negotiations.
