Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that most of us in this House are not of the same opinion as Mrs Stirbois - thank goodness! - and that the majority of us see refugees in a different light.
I confess that I am now finding it difficult to keep to the subject I had actually planned to speak about, that is Mr Lehne's report on visa policy.
We have been discussing this subject ever since I have been in Parliament.
Our discussions on how to formulate arrangements giving people from third countries legal access to the European Union spanned the whole of the previous legislature.
The judgment of the European Court of Justice - as Mr Lehne has already said, Parliament took this to court - still failed to clarify the degree of consistency we should apply to this question.
My group has also taken the line that if we want to retain our credibility we should give our opinion on both the Council and Commission proposals.
But as we have found ourselves in a state of deadlock with the forthcoming ratification of the Treaty of Amsterdam, we expect that once it has been ratified and the Treaty has come into force, the Commission will submit the new proposal it has announced without delay, and that the amendments from Parliament that we are voting on tomorrow will appear in the new proposal.
Nevertheless, I agree with the rapporteur that the procedure for granting visas should comply with the same requirements and procedures in all the Members States.
The fact that there is a visa requirement for certain third-country nationals does not mean that the relevant procedures should be unjust or even discriminatory.
Yet that is very often the case at present.
People who need a visa for relatives or business visitors or for youth and student exchanges should be given clear information on the documents required and the time taken to issue a visa when they submit an application.
We know all too well that waiting times of six months are frequent, with all the costs that implies.
The authorities in the Members States should have to observe clear guidelines in this area, to make the process both transparent and humane.
Article 62 in fact requires uniform conditions and procedures in this field.
We also hope that incorporating the Schengen Agreement into the Treaty will at last make it possible to draw up a single European list of third countries whose nationals require a visa for travel into the EU.
Many members of my group also believe that both Romania and Bulgaria should be deleted from the list, something Parliament has indeed been advocating for the last four and a half years.
It cannot be right that countries with whom we have association agreements are still at a disadvantage and are still on this list.
I often go to Romania and Bulgaria myself.
When you see how things are going there, you are bound to conclude that this needs to be changed, because both these countries have already made great efforts ...
The President cut the speaker off
