Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the candidate designated by the European Council for the office of Commission President, Mr Prodi, will come into office in a situation unknown to any of his predecessors.
No one has been nominated Commission President in a crisis of this kind, and no one before him became Commission President with direct democratic legitimation from a directly-elected Parliament.
I believe that both these factors will enable him to meet the considerable challenges which he and the future Commission will face.
Like Klaus Hänsch, I too would like to say that as a result of your great achievements, Mr Prodi, you will have our vote of confidence and our hopes will rest on you.
During your period of office you will have to achieve two things at the same time.
You will have to ensure the consolidation of the European Union, whose tasks and size have increased dramatically in recent years and decades and, where necessary, you will have to put the Union's house in order to ensure that it is viable and able to function even if nothing new is added.
At the same time you are expected to have vision.
These are two things that are seldom compatible but because of the historical situation they must both be achieved: consolidation and vision.
I believe that in the knowledge of what happened with the former Commission you will undertake the necessary institutional reforms; furthermore, you will tackle the issues of personal accountability, internal controls and financial control, increased efficiency and the related right of control of the European Parliament over the Commission.
In the coming weeks and months we will certainly have to devise ways to organise the interaction between the Commission and Parliament as its supervisory body, with the relevant reporting and the provision of information to Parliament's committees.
However, it is not only the radical structural reform of the Commission, for which Parliament has put forward concrete proposals, that is at issue; we also have to recognise that the European Parliament must be reorganised in the same way in order to do justice to its tasks.
We too still have work to do if we are to deal properly with our new rights and the extra rights that Mr Verheugen rightly called for the European Parliament to be given.
We are also all aware that because of its lack of transparency the third main institution, the Council, is a significant obstacle to acceptance among the public.
We will only be able to promote the European Union in the eyes of the people if it proves itself to be efficient, transparent and democratic at the same time.
These three factors are required if we are to be accepted by the public.
Mr Prodi, as I listened closely to your comments on economic policy, I heard a name that is not often mentioned by politicians and economists these days: Ludwig Erhard.
You focused on the market and said that its opportunities must be used to the full because this is the best way to achieve growth and employment.
However, you also talked about the fair framework conditions and rules that are necessary because the market cannot achieve this itself.
You also said that because of this certain basic conditions must be created in the area of environmental policy, social policy, consumer policy, and safeguarding competition through controls on competition and on financial aid, so that the single market can function as a single market for the whole of Europe and not in small sections.
But I have another particular problem with this, and in my view we need to solve a legitimation issue here.
We have to acknowledge that economic and monetary union is a Community operation.
Yet when I see how the finance ministers deal with it and in particular when I look at the role of the 'Euro 11', I realise that decisions are increasingly slipping into the intergovernmental sphere and that there is little democratic legitimation there for important decisions concerning economic and monetary policy which run parallel to the independence of the European Central Bank.
I believe that there is a lot of work yet to be done in institutional terms between Council, Commission and Parliament to prevent this from slipping out of the Community sphere, with the result that the finance ministers become the new masters of Europe.
As regards vision, you commented on the need for foreign representation and on our ability to use enlargement to extend the peace that we have achieved within the Union to the whole of Europe, including the Balkans, for example.
The enlargement of the European Union is certainly one of the fundamental tasks that you will be faced with during your period of office, but an institutional round table is needed on this.
In my view it should be organised very quickly and it must set the scene for enlargement, for example by extending majority voting and later - but not too late, and quickly - not as a condition for enlargement but in the progression towards the goal of a constitution and a constitutional treaty.
Mr Prodi, you demonstrate the fact that we are, in my view, returning to a Europe of values.
The European Union must not be seen by the people only as a single market, it must be a Europe of common values and a common culture.
Our culture gives us more in common than it does to divide us, but all our talk at the moment is about what divides us.
We should talk about what we have in common!
What distinguishes us in our values and our cultures is not something divisive but a plus, a diversity and an additional wealth.
If in this discussion of the fundamental issue of values we can present the kind of Europe once called for in this House by Václav Havel, then we will once again be in a position to find favour with our citizens, who want more than just a single market.
