Mr President, the 1996 and 1997 discharge procedures changed the way the institutions work together in the field of budgetary control - before, we only had cooperation of this sort with the budget.
I said in the debate on the 1996 discharge back in December that I was actually disappointed by our arrogance - as reflected in the Treaties - in not even allowing for the possibility of discharge being refused.
Mrs Theato pointed this out, and the Rules Committee of this House has now rectified the situation at last.
Now, of course, I should also like to invite the Council to continue its work, so that it too will finally meet the conditions.
Our group has been consistent in its position; it is also thanks to the stubborn and tough stance deliberately adopted by our rapporteur, Mr Elles, that ultimately the whole House has gone along with this approach, and today we have a success for which we in principle have only one person to thank, the rapporteur, Mr Elles, with his report on the 1996 budget discharge.
Discharge will not be granted for 1996, the accounts will be closed, and discharge can only be given for 1997 if - as you have just quite rightly said, Mr Bösch - the deficiencies are ironed out; the fact that they have not been has of course just been criticised by us both.
A working paper and work programme have already been included in the Elles report; no one has yet reacted to them.
There was a report from the Committee of Wise Men, and this in fact only confirmed what we had already established ourselves.
Now we are in a state of uncertainty which will drag on until September if the Committee of Wise Men presents a second report, and I do not believe that anyone in this House is happy about being in limbo in this way.
But to avoid overburdening the 1998 discharge procedure with these problems as well, the 1997 discharge procedure has to be brought to a conclusion.
If it is not, we shall never be finished with this matter and I will probably be affected by this personally in the 1998 budgetary procedure.
That is why I wish to invite the Commission - whoever wishes to take the responsibility for this - finally to take the measures which we have demanded.
I am already worried, Mrs Cresson; your work with Leonardo concerned the 1998 financial year.
At the time, we were accused of confusing 1996 and 1998.
No, the problem is that this came to light in 1998, and I should like to ask you, Mr Liikanen, to tell your colleagues that at that time, in the summer, we sat upstairs on the seventh floor - things were really pleasant and friendly then - and made you an offer: be open, admit your mistakes, show us where the faults lie, and we will be prepared to compromise.
That did not happen, and now you will have to find a way of dealing with the severity with which you are now being treated.
But this is also significant for the 1997 and 1998 discharges.
I now turn to the House itself.
Since the very member of the Socialist Group who has been the most cooperative towards us is sitting here, I will actually avoid criticising the Socialist Group; otherwise I would have said that the dilemma facing us today is in fact the fault of the Socialist Group.
