Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, monetary union has been with us for over ten weeks, but consumers in the EU are still finding it difficult to see the day-to-day advantages of monetary union for them.
People travelling on business or as tourists who need to change their own national currency into another national currency - both of which after all simply represent the euro, which does not yet exist in the form of coins and banknotes - have discovered that the commissions charged on such transactions are still high, too high in fact.
Their opinion is shared by the Subcommittee on Monetary Affairs, following its hearing involving banks, buildings societies and consumer associations.
I would like to put the following question to the Commission: was it not a fundamental mistake to ignore the European Parliament's proposals during initial consultations about what should be covered by the euro regulation?
I have in mind not only the legal status of the euro and provisions on standards and international recognition of the euro, but also the issues of converting bank accounts, conversion costs and dual pricing.
But above all, I have in mind the commission charged on exchange transactions.
It should be possible to apply yardsticks in all these areas so that savings on exchange rate hedge costs and other costs which previously applied to transactions in the European Union, and which no longer exist today, are passed on to our consumers, customers and travellers, as a kind of bonus.
What strikes me is that the fee structure in the various Member States is remarkably similar.
Yet in some Member States we now have commission rates of 6 %, and many people have reported different commission rates when exchanging from one national currency to another.
This applies to the French franc, for example.
I have also heard, for instance, that it is more expensive to change German marks into Italian lire than into French francs.
I also have to say that both colleagues and members of the public have reported that there are banks and building societies which have ceased to offer exchange facilities, especially for certain currencies.
I have heard that there are even central banks which have stopped making no-fee exchange transactions.
The Commission needs to carry out a thorough investigation of all these issues to put a stop to these practices.
And I mean an investigation by the Commission itself, not one under the aegis of the European banking associations.
It is simply unacceptable that the introduction of the euro has not created greater confidence in monetary union on the part of our consumers, but just the opposite, it is breeding a climate of mistrust.
It is high time that we had transparency.
We need to know how high costs and charges were before the introduction of the euro and how high they are now after its introduction.
We need an initiative from the Commission.
What is more, what effect is competition having in reducing costs and charges for exchange transactions?
It is scandalous that Italian banks have been given advance warning of an investigation!
And can anyone claim that the Commission's investigation of only eight banks in connection with a possible cartel agreement is adequate?
That is why I think it is really important for the Commission to launch an initiative or take some other measures, perhaps even in the form of legislation, on maximum charges.
The Commission's actions on cross-border transfers also really leave a great deal to be desired, given that there was a political undertaking to do more than just reduce the cost of cross-border transfers as from 15 August and to make such transfers more secure.
As Members of the European Parliament were are deeply concerned about all these issues, and the public expects the Commission to take some action instead of dilly-dallying.
