Madam President, I should like to thank Mr Hoppenstedt most sincerely for his excellent report, which I have followed with great interest - not so much the exhibition in Hanover as the problems that it has generated.
I am also glad that Mr Elchlepp spoke on the subject, for the simple reason that he too produced a wonderful report on an earlier occasion which I still remember with pleasure.
I would like to thank him once again for that report.
Like any exhibition, the Expo in Hanover will be very important if it is used for the right purpose, as Mr Hoppenstedt underlined.
But I would also like to look a little further forward, because there will be other exhibitions in future, and we should be starting to think now about things that will be vital for these future events.
Time and again the vital cultural dimension is missing, as Mr Hoppenstedt rightly said, yet this is one of Europe's great strengths, and we should focus more attention on the cultural side of things instead of selling it short.
Secondly, we should remember that we have not always done ourselves justice here, particularly at exhibitions.
As the 2005 Expo is, I am delighted to say, to be held in Nagoya in Japan, I would point out that the exhibition in Osaka led to a number of scandalous bureaucratic blunders, when they built the Europe pavilion but refused to put up the Coudenhove-Kalergi statue.
After a wave of protests the European Community, as it was then, explained that it could not afford it.
Then came the most shameful thing of all - the Japanese themselves bought a very fine Coudenhove-Kalergi statue for the pavilion.
This also reminds me of something that happened here in this very building with a statue that was removed by the bureaucrats and has now been returned.
We should think of our own roots, and when we go to Japan in particular - and 2005 is not so far away - we should focus on the links we have with these countries.
The fact is that we cannot afford to operate just within the European Union: we must also take Europe out into a world that is, whether we like it or not, becoming increasingly globalised and in which partnerships in the Far East are also of vital importance to us.
This is why I feel that even today we should all be thinking about what to do in Nagoya.
The Asians are, after all, our logical partners.
They are a great deal more culturally aware than certain bureaucrats here, and they would be very impressed if we gave our culture pride of place.
I remember a Croatian exhibition that we had once that was Croatia's first appearance in this building.
I was wrong at the time to insist that we should stop pandering to tourists.
Thank goodness no one listened to me and they brought culture into the building, which was the best thing they could have done in the long run.
We should think about all this very carefully, and because we are now preparing to organise an event in Germany and the preparations are going so well, we should be starting to think a little further forward.
I must apologise for having pre-empted the next two stages, because we need to make long-term plans for our European culture and taking Europe out into the world, and we need to ensure that this impression of Europe is spread much further.
As this is the last time I shall be speaking in the European Parliament, I would urge my successors not to forget culture, because it is vitally important.
We are a cultural continent and we should remember that this is the most permanent feature that Europe has!
Applause
