Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I do not have very much to add to the previous speakers' remarks.
I would like to ask Mr Hyland to convey my congratulations to Mr Fitzsimons on his report, particularly because of the way he has highlighted essential points and cut out irrelevant detail.
I would just like to add one further point about measurement being necessary if we are to establish precisely where reductions in emissions need to be made first and in what way, and how we can then check whether objectives are being achieved.
Once we have adopted this legislation, applicant countries will have to adopt it as common legislation during their preparations for accession, enabling them to bring their strategy more into line with EU strategy at an early stage and to use the same measurement techniques as the existing Member States.
This means that on accession they can be assimilated seamlessly into the European emission reduction strategy for achieving the Kyoto objectives.
This is something I attach great importance to.
I also believe that we cannot achieve everything we are now discussing about flexible mechanisms without precise measurement both within the European Union and world-wide.
In this context I would like to remind you that the flexible mechanism most successfully implemented so far, both for the environment and for industry, namely the reduction in CO2 emissions by US industry, has worked because penalties applied if obligations entered into were not met within the relevant time frame.
I wonder if we should not consider something like this in the European Union, especially given that Member States do not always report their figures, data and reductions to the Commission on time, so that the Commission's reports to the Parliament are delayed and it is not clear why this is happening.
I think we would all very much welcome it if it were possible to monitor from the outset what measurements are being taken, what efforts Member States are making and what needs to be done to coordinate those efforts in order to achieve the Kyoto objectives.
