Madam President, honourable Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, I am very pleased that my colleague Mr Pöttering has today spoken in different terms than was previously the case when we were still uncertain as to its contents.
Many myths have been spun surrounding this report, one being that this report will show that several Commissioners from the old Commission should no longer be represented in the new Commission - a further statement on the old Commission and its practices.
In reality this has happened, something I consider very important, and I believe that in this sense I have also understood the previous speaker.
We must take appropriate steps as a result of the mistakes and inappropriate behaviour of certain Commissioners.
In this respect, we have to draw a line under the old Commission, we should not cover anything up as far the mistakes that have been made are concerned, but rather we should look to the future in order to jointly make things better in the coming years.
This is our task for which, as far as I have been able to read the report, very many starting points are contained therein, although it is too early to put my name to it at the moment.
I would, however, also like to make an observation regarding the time factor.
I did not understand Vice-President Marín to be rebuking us, although perhaps, in his situation, he sees things somewhat differently from us parliamentarians.
Why am I in favour of giving the Commission time, albeit not too much time?
Because I take the viewpoint that, at the end of the day, we have to get round to the important issues: strengthening the Union and enlargement of the Union.
In addition, we must get away from the fact that for far too many of our people, the European Union is associated with scandals, fraud and maladministration.
This is certainly not the case.
But we also have to demonstrate this by rectifying matters where mistakes have been made.
My question to Commissioner Kinnock therefore relates to the notion of time.
Yes to having sufficient time to initiate reforms, but also yes to beginning these important steps as soon as possible, in order that we can get away from the bad light in which the Commission, and indeed the whole European Union, is portrayed.
In this regard, clear decisions must be taken.
The most important thing, and this is something which was also often mentioned at the hearings, during yours too Commissioner Kinnock, is the question of responsibility.
It was not clear to Parliament and, of course, still less so to the citizens of Europe, as to who is ultimately responsible for what.
These points, which have been clearly pointed out in the first and also in the second report, must be quickly rectified.
I, for example, am in total agreement with the report where it says that ultimately, the Directorates-General within the Commission should also bear not only the political and administrative responsibility but also financial responsibility.
It should be made clear in this regard that in carrying out a range of duties, with this comes full responsibility.
I would like to make one more comment in connection with this which is very important as far as my group is concerned.
We stand by our policy of collective responsibility within the Commission and we want to see this maintained in the future.
But we are also standing by the fact that, in addition to this, we have to find the means of incorporating individual responsibility of the individual Commissioners.
In this regard, some positive things have come out from the hearings, while other points were perhaps rather cautious.
This will be a difficult matter.
My question to Commissioner Kinnock is certainly along the lines of him taking the trouble to make it clear that individual responsibility of the individual Commissioners and collective responsibility do not contradict one another.
We do not want to amend or abolish collective responsibility in principle but we would like to supplement it accordingly.
The report of the Committee of Wise Men also makes it clear that the Commission must be bolder in relation to national governments, even with regard to filling certain posts.
I have experienced it myself in the area of foreign policy how governments exert influence and how decisions that the Commission would like to make itself are frequently delayed for long periods.
I call upon the Commission to show greater courage in relation to national governments and to report to Parliament if governments, as a result of their stalling tactics, not making a decision, or their unacceptable and unreasonable influence, prevent the Commission from adopting a certain stance or making clear decisions.
They have us on their side provided they clearly demonstrate where the reason lies.
An important area which we must concern ourselves with over the coming weeks is the overall question of the allocation of contracts and subsidies.
This is my question to Commissioner Kinnock in this regard: is the Commission ready to draw up clear regulations regarding the allocation of contracts, subsidies and regulations which are transparent and comparable?
This seems to me to be an important issue and it will certainly be difficult to do this in such a way that flexibility is not lost.
But transparent and clear regulations of this type are required and I hope that the Commission is ready in this regard.
Such clear regulations are also particularly necessary in those instances where responsibilities have to be delegated elsewhere.
In this area, I am also in agreement with the report.
It should not be that the Commission takes on all the responsibilities itself and does not delegate anything.
That would mean an immense extension of the apparatus of officialdom.
Yet even if responsibilities were to be delegated elsewhere, then the regulations must be clear as to the principles according to which this allocation should be effected.
The report of the Wise Men is also very clear on matters relating to control in the Member States.
I know that this is a delicate area.
I now come back to my original point.
Member States are all too ready to apportion the blame to the European institutions, to Brussels.
In this regard, in truth there is quite a lot of abuse and inappropriate behaviour on the part of Member States themselves and their own institutions.
Even here we will be on your side if you implement controls where they are necessary, even in the Member States.
Through OLAF and the Bösch report, we have made considerable strides with regard to controlling fraud.
In my opinion, we should get away from the saying: fraud has its home in Brussels.
Fraud does not have its home in Brussels!
As with all large institutions, there are cases of fraud.
But what there has been too little of at home is the clear disclosure and pursuit of fraud.
And, my colleague Mr Pöttering, Commissioner Kinnock has already said that certainly as far as whistle-blowers are concerned, there will be new support procedures in this regard, and this House will certainly fully endorse that.
In this sense, Commissioner Kinnock, I hope that we will soon have this regulation.
The final point, which this report also goes into in detail, is openness and transparency.
It is not only this House which now expects a higher degree of openness from the Commission than was the case in the past.
There will be fewer rumours circulated in the media if openness and transparency hold sway.
In Recommendation No. 85 - I would particularly like to draw the Commissioner 's attention to this point - it clearly states that there may only be a few regulations that are exempt from this openness and transparency and these should still be agreed with the institutions.
But the large majority - 95% of cases - should be characterised by openness and transparency.
If the Commission succeeds in this in the coming years, then it will have our support.
Then, what has happened in the past will not be repeated for we will not be interested in sending the Commission packing again.
We want to cooperate with a strong Commission.
