Mr President, one difference between Angola and the Western Sahara is that there is a cease-fire in the Western Sahara.
A cease-fire, however, is still a step short of peace.
One of the last colonial conflicts is being waged there.
Since the Spaniards withdrew and the Moroccans occupied the country, this means that the old colonial policy has become Europeanised, and I therefore believe that the European Union has an obligation here and a responsibility for this part of Spain's colonial history.
The people who were forced to flee their homes have been living for decades in refugee camps.
For years, Morocco has vetoed the idea of a referendum, which is why the discussions on the Western Sahara have had a certain sameness over the years.
Now, apparently, the UN wishes to guarantee that the referendum can take place in December 1999.
That was what we had hoped for, we expect it to take place this year, and Kofi Annan seems to be emphatic about this, as his last visit to the region showed.
This means that we in the European Union are now in demand too and will have to give this process decisive political and logistic support.
We call on Morocco to refrain from obstructing the registration of electors and to stop evading the issue.
It would even be appropriate to encourage direct negotiations between the Sahrawi people and Morocco.
We call on the Council - and the Austrian Presidency gave many encouraging signals in this matter - to ensure that the referendum is guaranteed and that the humanitarian aid is continued until then.
I think we also need observers in the Western Sahara during the run-up to the referendum, not just when it takes place.
We ask the Commission to make the necessary resources available so that the referendum can be guaranteed and the humanitarian aid continued.
One approach we could use relates to the forthcoming fisheries agreement with Morocco, which could be linked to the holding of the referendum.
Whatever its outcome, the Commission and the Council - the troika - should guarantee that, along with the UN, the European Union will provide the necessary security for the referendum to take place.
That is my plea to the German Presidency of the Council.
