Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the treatment of foodstuffs with radiation conjures up diabolic visions in the minds of many people, while sending many a practitioner and expert into transports of delight.
European policymakers were faced with the task of reconciling these two extremes and making the practical application of radiation treatment possible.
The treatment of foodstuffs with ionising radiation must be possible, we believe, where it is prudent and necessary, but not as a substitute for health measures and hygiene.
I do not believe what Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz said about radiation being used on food that is going off to make it fit for consumption again.
Not even radiation can do that.
That will be explicitly stated in future directives too.
It is a very important principle.
In my opinion, it goes without saying that the food in question poses no health hazard whatsoever.
But that has to be re-emphasised, because we have heard the opposite message again today.
Food treated with ionising radiation is not radioactive food, and we, the population of the EU, can consume it without becoming seriously ill.
Harmonisation at European level is therefore an urgent necessity.
The legal position in the various Member States has hitherto been unduly disparate.
Whereas food has been treated with radiation for years in France, Belgium and the Netherlands, for instance, irradiated foodstuffs are prohibited in other countries, so there is no trace of the single market here.
The result of the conciliation proceedings with the Council is good and has our approval.
The market in food treated with ionised radiation will gradually become a single market too.
Compulsory labelling will also enable consumers to make a choice.
I believe this represents a major success, and I cannot help emphasising the specific role played by my group in the inclusion of standardised and validated verification methods in the directive.
Without validated verification methods, there can be no credible labelling system.
And without a credible labelling system, there can be no consumer confidence.
On the subject of confidence, I must repeat - and I agree with Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz here - that spending ten long years on a directive is not something we can afford to do very often.
Let me say to the Commissioners that we certainly cannot afford a repeat with regard to the chocolate directive or the labelling of alcoholic beverages.
Directives like the present one should not become the norm.
It is high time we started to build up consumer confidence by acting quickly.
