Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what progress has been made in the four months of the German Presidency and the four months since the introduction of the euro?
Four days ago the Treaty of Amsterdam entered into force.
Of course it will not bring about a revolution, but it does represent an important step along the path to greater integration, politics for the people and democracy.
We should therefore not make light of the Treaty.
It strengthens the role of Parliament in particular within the European institutions, and this is a crucial step forward.
It also gives the Union the opportunity to make its common foreign and security policy more efficient, coherent and effective by improving its foreign policy instruments.
The German Presidency has therefore made every effort to ensure that the Treaty can be applied in full from the first day.
We must now use the new instruments for the common foreign and security policy as extensively as possible, beginning by defining a comprehensive and coherent policy towards our neighbouring regions.
This is the aim of the common strategies.
The first of these will concern Russia, and further strategies concerning the Ukraine, the western Balkans and the Mediterranean region will follow as soon as possible.
In recent months we have been able to reach a considerable degree of agreement on the substance and structure of our strategy on Russia.
I am therefore confident and take a different view from the previous speaker, because although I fully understand some of your arguments, particularly concerning the procedure and the interests of the committee and of Parliament, in the present circumstances postponing this strategy on Russia would have a negative knock-on effect.
So I can only advise against postponing the strategy until the Helsinki summit, particularly in the current situation.
Bear in mind that this is not just about Kosovo but Russia's overall economic and social instability.
Europe's change of direction towards Russia is of crucial importance, and I would add that this also applies to our strategy on Ukraine, where I believe we are dealing with a similar problem.
For this reason I am confident that the strategy can be adopted in Cologne.
The aim of the Russia strategy is to help to promote democracy and the rule of law and to integrate this important neighbour into the European Economic and Social Area; it is also to strengthen relations in general and to establish a basis for future relations.
The Kosovo crisis shows only too clearly how urgently we need Russia's constructive cooperation for peace in Europe.
One of the West's priority tasks is to ensure that the barbaric war in Kosovo does not also lead to any sort of reversal in our relations with Russia, but that we continue to build on our partnership.
Our close cooperation with Moscow in the search for a political solution in Kosovo shows that Russia takes the same view.
Russia must become a close partner of the new Europe, and we must devote all our energies to working towards this.
The experience gained through the Russia strategy must subsequently be put to use as quickly as possible in working out the other strategies.
It is important that in doing so we ensure a careful balance between the regions, as stability to the south is just as important for Europe as stability to the east.
As President-in-Office of the Council I would add that in the six months that I have been Minister of Foreign Affairs for the Federal Republic of Germany and, since 1 January, President of the European Council, one point has become absolutely clear: European foreign policy can no longer look to the East or to the South; these are both areas of conflict, problem areas which affect us equally, whether it is the south-east, the southern Balkans with the Kosovo war and the crisis that must be resolved there, whether it is the Mediterranean Conference in Stuttgart, where we suddenly found ourselves physically in the middle of the Middle East conflict, with the Israelis to the right and the Palestinians to the left - we were suddenly in the midst of a negotiation process and we succeeded in keeping both sides in the conference, which was not a foregone conclusion from what we expected and in view of the political situation, particularly with the elections in Israel - or whether it is the current negotiations with Russia or with Ukraine.
All of this shows clearly that Europe's foreign policy must be based on a European approach and must not pit the east against the south.
This offers zero prospects and would simply set Europe back.
We have therefore placed an important emphasis on the south with the third Mediterranean Conference in Stuttgart, particularly with the successful agreement on the basic components of the forward-looking Euro-Mediterranean Charter for Peace and Stability.
Europe's defence of the Kosovars' rights is a significant signal for the coexistence of Christians and Muslims in our future world, as it shows that Europeans form a community of values that goes beyond religion.
Mr Spencer, you dealt with this aspect in great detail in your speech.
It is also very important, in the current difficult phase of the Middle East peace process, that Europeans should continue to pull in the same direction and that they spoke with one voice in the Middle East declaration of the Heads of State and Government on 25 March.
The Oslo interim agreement expires today.
We welcome the Palestinians' wise decision to take no unilateral action and we hope that serious negotiations can be resumed as soon as possible.
During the German Presidency the EU's relations with other regions of the world have been accorded considerable importance.
The Berlin ASEAN meeting further strengthened dialogue and cooperation with our Asian partners.
We are hoping that the first Europe - Latin America summit to be held in Rio de Janeiro will improve our political, economic and cultural relations.
The EU-US summit in Cologne should also give strong impetus to the future of the transatlantic partnership and at the same time bring current areas of conflict, such as bananas, hormone-treated meat, hushkits and other, at least onto a constructive course leading to a solution.
The High Representative for the CFSP, provided for in the Treaty of Amsterdam, is to be appointed at the Cologne European Council.
The German Presidency believes that this should be a man or woman who carries considerable political weight and is able to assert himself or herself.
He or she must be given a powerful role in order to be able to promote a European foreign policy that is as operational as possible and to serve as a point of progression in foreign policy but also in domestic relations.
The High Representative should therefore ideally play an active role as adviser in internal consensus-building.
A further important topic in this six-month period is European security and defence policy.
The Kosovo conflict has illustrated once again that the collaboration and presence of the USA remain indispensable for the defence of our fundamental values of peace, human rights and democracy in Europe.
However, the USA's predominance in both the military and political handling of the Kosovo conflict has also shown how urgent it is that we in Europe strengthen our ability to act in foreign and security policy if we ourselves are to be capable of effective crisis management in future.
Tony Blair's initiative in Pörtschach and the Franco-British meeting in St Malo have provided us with a good model, and it has been a vital concern of the German Presidency to use this new dynamism.
We secured the unreserved support of NATO at its Washington summit for the development of the European security and defence policy.
The importance of future partnership between the EU and NATO also became clear here.
The presidency is preparing a report for the European Council in Cologne which will establish the basic consensus that is emerging for the guidelines we presented and a decision on the integration of the WEU into the EU in accordance with Article 17 of the EU Treaty, including a target date in the foreseeable future.
If we were to reach agreement on this the conditions would be in place for Europe to take unified action.
In my statement of 12 January I highlighted the prospects for the further development of European integration, and I would like to do this today for the CFSP.
I would like to emphasise four points.
Firstly, the European Union, as a global political actor, must take account of the increased importance of human rights through a committed human rights policy.
For the first time, therefore, on a German-British initiative it is to draw up its own human rights report this year, which should increase the transparency of EU human rights policy and deal with both subject-related and country-related issues.
For Europe it has been a fundamental experience to discover how important the work of human rights groups was in the former Warsaw Pact area and how crucial Part 3 of the Helsinki Agreement was for the end of Communist dictatorship in the former Soviet Union and Eastern Europe.
This parallel nature of political dialogue, economic openness and defence of human rights is a legacy for Europe that must inform its human rights policy in other regions of the world too.
In this respect we must tirelessly continue to support democrats and human rights proponents wherever they are oppressed.
For this reason the EU clearly expressed its criticism of the human rights situation in China to the Geneva-based Commission on Human Rights on several occasions, most recently in the EU declaration on the Chinese no-action motion.
We condemn in particular the action taken against political dissidents, for example the imposition of the death penalty on a scale unprecedented in international terms, and the treatment of minorities, especially in Tibet.
The EU strongly urges the Chinese Government to ensure progress in the human rights situation in practice, with respect for democracy and the rule of law.
The EU must also, within its own borders, show greater support for the observance of human rights.
Human rights, democracy and the rule of law are stated clearly in the Treaty of Amsterdam as conditions of membership, and if they are not observed membership rights may be restricted.
We hope that the EU will lay the foundations at the European Council in Cologne for the drafting of a European charter of fundamental rights to reinforce the rights of its citizens.
Such a charter could later become a constitutive element of a European constitution.
Enshrining civil rights may also serve as a model in the enlargement of the Union.
Secondly, the EU must offer the states of south-eastern Europe a political and economic perspective that goes beyond the Kosovo crisis, a far-sighted vision and all-embracing concept for peace and integration.
The stability pact for south-eastern Europe was roundly welcomed in the previous debate.
Thirdly, we also want to achieve the following.
The greater the Union's ability to act, particularly in the CFSP, the greater the democratic control and legitimacy of European policy must be.
The German Presidency therefore wants to include the extension of the European Parliament's rights on the agenda for the next intergovernmental conference on institutional reform, for which we intend to draw up a timetable in Cologne in June.
Fourthly, in the long term we will only be able to strengthen the common foreign and security policy by presenting a united front in the G8, in international financial institutions and particularly in the United Nations, and by extending the use of majority voting.
Yet in the forthcoming phase the common foreign and security policy is not concerned with further institutional reform but with maximising joint action and the intensive application of the new instruments.
We must learn increasingly to change our thought patterns and to place our national interests after the greater interests of Europe.
During the German Presidency we have succeeded in maintaining or even increasing the EU's unity and ability to act in many difficult foreign policy issues in relation to Kosovo, China, the Middle East and many other areas.
This is a success for all of us, and we must continue down this road.
We must succeed in the next few years in realising a Europe that is capable of political action, as it is only in this way that the European Union will be able to defend its interests and values adequately in the multipolar world of the 21st century.
