Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, I wish to thank the rapporteur for his dedicated work.
In 1994, I had the good fortune to be rapporteur for the directive on the incineration of hazardous waste.
At that time, we proposed some extremely strict limit values, as I still believe we should be doing today.
Results now show that of the 15 Member States of the European Union, 13 have not incorporated the strict values decided upon at that time into national law.
Two countries have transposed them, with the result that these countries and these companies have invested a great deal of money and will probably have to do so once again if we reach different conclusions today.
I therefore believe that it is absolutely right to set strict values, but that we have to do this seriously, and that obviously the concerns about health, which I fully share, must also be taken into account.
I do not, however, consider it to be a particularly good thing that some countries and therefore some incineration plant operators abide by the rules and obey the laws in Europe and have spent a great deal of money, for example in France, but in my own country too - and I would be happy to show you this, Mr Blokland, after all you do not live so far away - while others have done nothing at all, and I do not see why, with these new values, some of which you want to halve, these others should now be able to save themselves the cost of the first investment.
That is a competition policy which I cannot support.
I therefore believe that we should adopt a cautious but strict approach here.
That is why I am very much in favour of the best available technology being used.
But Mr Blokland should please define the 'best available technology' in Europe for me.
It will not do for some to define it in one way, and others in a different way.
That is also why I have criticised the issue of measuring methods.
If we prescribe figures here, then we must also prescribe how we measure, when we measure and where we measure.
Here too, there are enormous differences in Europe.
Co-incineration is a good thing, if it is carried out properly - I support it.
But different values must apply here, because there are two combustion components: on the one hand the combustion of oil or waste, and on the other hand that of ores.
There must be a rule for this.
The old mixed formula was not too bad.
The present Commission proposal is more stringent, and I support it because it makes sense.
If we go along with Mr Blokland's proposals, I believe that in the long term the sensible process of co-incineration in cement kilns will be banned, and that does not make any sense at all, precisely from the point of view of environment policy, because they will still have to use gas or coal, and you want to ban that too.
Proper co-incineration in accordance with strict standards is therefore the right way forward.
In this context, I would like to see not only standards but also measuring procedures, because we do not have any of these in Europe.
In this respect, we are back in a federalist system where everyone does what they want.
That is precisely the point which I should like you to bear in mind, Mr Blokland, and which I would ask you to reconsider.
