Mr President, I hope that I can find my bearings again in the debate which we interrupted.
The role of combined transport is to shift goods transport from the roads to the railways.
It is capable of doing that despite its structural disadvantages, thanks to the preferential measures designed to enable it to compete with the transport of goods by road.
Nevertheless, it has not developed to the extent that we transport policymakers had hoped and expected.
The main reason is that the railways are taking a very long time to develop into modern service enterprises, if they are developing in that direction at all.
Combined transport is also the forerunner of a future model, namely that of intermodal transport, which will improve the flow of traffic for all types of carrier.
A decisive breakthrough in the development of intermodal transport will naturally require a sea change in the political regulation of transport in Europe.
What we are asking about today are the conditions under which the present superannuated form of combined transport can be sustained for long enough to develop into that model of the future, without it grinding to a halt and simply being overrun by the road-transport juggernaut.
The new proposal for a directive starts off in the right direction, broadening the definition of combined transport to pave the way for intermodal transport.
We are naturally calling for a precise limitation of the ratio of road legs to total mileage.
The second step in the Commission's proposal, namely the European harmonisation of preferential measures, also points in the right direction, in my opinion.
The issue of grants poses fewest problems.
The maximum weight of 44 tonnes and the exemptions from driving bans, however, remain bones of contention.
I personally consider them necessary for a transitional period until a level playing field has been created for all modes of transport and intermodal transport has become an everyday phenomenon.
I share some of my colleagues' fears, however - firstly that the abuses which are already occurring today will become more widespread, and secondly that the increase in exemptions from driving bans and derogations from weight limits could open the political floodgates for the extension of these privileges to road hauliers in general.
For that reason, we insist on follow-up negotiations to review the situation.
