Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is sadly true that many aspects of the world in which we live are far from perfect; one of its sordid aspects is that of violence against women, children and young people, and this is a problem we have to tackle relentlessly.
For that reason, the German Presidency has made the problem one of its priority issues.
A meeting on the subject has already taken place.
The Bundesrat , the chamber of the German Parliament in which the federal states are represented, has expressed its regret that 1999 was not declared to be an official year of action on violence against women, which would have been an important means of reinforcing this message.
Violence-prevention strategies must incorporate different approaches, depending on whether the violence in question is domestic or non-domestic.
That distinction is not adequately covered in the Commission proposal, and so it is essential to add amendments that refer explicitly to sexual abuse, sexual exploitation and traffic in human beings and to support all the other amendments on the table.
These additions are necessary for two reasons: firstly, it must be made clear that the definition of violence goes beyond the use of physical force.
Sexual abuse, for instance, does not always entail the use of physical force, especially when the victims are young children, but can involve all sorts of intimidation and threats which leave no physical trace.
This does not make its effects any less drastic; on the contrary, they are often far, far worse.
One of the most humiliating experiences of sexually abused women and children is not to be believed unless they can furnish proof in the form of physical injuries.
Sexual exploitation is one of the most despicable manifestations of the sex industry, about which a word should be said at this point.
More money is now made from trafficking in women than from drug trafficking.
Traffickers in women run a far lower risk of prosecution than dealers in drugs or weapons, because there is often a lack of evidence that would stand up in court.
Traffic in women is a 'growth industry', not least because of the more open borders with the countries of Central and Eastern Europe, from where most of the victims in our Member States are drawn.
The desperate economic situation in their own countries forces many women to clutch at any straw, which makes them easy prey for the traffickers.
The fact that the enormity of this affront to humanity is no longer a taboo subject, but is being discussed more and more openly and has even been the subject of official action programmes is to be warmly welcomed.
These efforts have our unreserved support, and in that context we surely owe a debt of gratitude to Commissioner Anita Gradin as well.
I need only remind you of the conference which was held in Vienna and attracted widespread public attention.
We need comprehensive measures to prevent trafficking, to educate the public and to protect the victims, as well as cooperation and coordination with the judiciary, the police, the competent authorities and, last but not least, with the non-governmental organisations that operate in this field; this cooperation and coordination must take place within each Member State, between the Member States and with the relevant countries outside the European Union.
The suitability of the chosen legal basis, which has rightly attracted severe criticism here, is open to question.
But there is no disputing the fact that violence against women, children and young people ultimately damages their health and - very importantly - their psychological constitution.
Reducing the problem to a mere health issue would amount to an intolerable trivialisation.
Let it be clearly understood that violence against women, children and young people must be outlawed and punished as serious violations of human rights, with no ifs or buts.
