Mr President, in his excellent report the rapporteur has rightly pointed to the further problems of institutional questions in the context of monetary union but also of enlargement.
We must indeed put far greater intellectual and political emphasis on finding means of resolving these questions, in relation to the international representation of EMU but above all in relation to policy coordination.
On the international aspect I would add that just as the rapporteur said, we must speak with one voice here.
But in this context we must also give the Commission, as the motor of European integration and guardian of the Treaties, equal rights of participation in this international representation.
Parliament must continue to support that.
What is particularly important is that we use the successful launch of monetary union in order to reduce the democratic deficit in the European Union.
It really is time for the European Parliament to be given a codecision right that is consistent with the further democratic development of this European Union; that right must apply not just to the annual economic report and the economic policy guidelines but also to the whole procedure for determining the excessive deficit and to the deliberations on the stability plans and convergence programmes.
This is particularly necessary with a view to enlargement as well as to monetary union and the form it assumes.
In this connection I want to point to one other matter.
The idea of the Euro-11 Council may be useful and may be very pragmatic.
I am not criticising, indeed I am welcoming the Council's efforts to improve economic coordination and begin preliminary discussions on the kind of policy mix that can act as a positive incentive to growth, investment and employment.
After all, the crucial point is that today we can no longer just have the European Central Bank responsible for monetary policy, the social partners for wage policy and the states for financial policy.
We need all these players to act together.
The European Parliament must not be kept out of this interplay.
The Euro-11 Council is not an institution enshrined in the Treaties.
So we really do need an interinstitutional agreement.
I very much hope that the German and the Finnish Presidencies will find a procedure for including the European Parliament in these discussions and that we who represent the people of Europe can actually offer some impetus towards achieving a balanced policy mix that promotes employment in the European Union.
This interinstitutional agreement is overdue.
We called for it in 1994 and it must be concluded before the year 2000.
