Madam President, first of all I would like to say to the Members who are thanking the French government or the city of Strasbourg for this building, that they are addressing their comments to the wrong people.
We were the ones who had the house built so we should be the ones beating our own breast if mistakes have been made.
But I am not here to offer praise.
The building is fine.
It is the many defects I would like to comment on now.
Firstly, Madam President, if you ever had to send a fax in my office or that of my fellow Members, I could tell you it is practically impossible!
You would have to stand on a chair, a swivel chair, to be able to look down on the top of this machine.
You probably know that most accidents in all the households in Europe happen because housewives are trying to stand on some sort of swivel chair, which should be avoided if possible.
I would not like to know how much money the insurers of this building will have to pay out in future for all the medium-sized persons climbing up on these chairs.
People like me.
I am just 1.60 m tall.
I' m just not tall enough.
I need assistance.
There is a notice on it saying, "Please do not move" .
Secondly, Madam President, I drive a normal passenger car into the entrance of our car park.
You cannot get to Level 2 if you don' t reverse in order to take the bend.
Well, you can imagine what it gets like in the rush hour.
There are cars coming from the left, from in front, from behind, and there is always someone who has to reverse so he can get round the bend.
My heartfelt request is that this central reservation is halved in size so that we can enter the car park without having to reverse.
Apart from that I do not see why I should have to insert my pass twice when entering the car park, once on top and once in the middle.
That' s just crazy.
If I have already got in at the top, I should be able to carry on inside.
I understand even less why, when I' m leaving in the evening or at night, I have to do the same again.
Once I' m inside, you might as well let me out!
The situation is just ridiculous on both counts.
In the rush hours it is just not feasible.
Thirdly, in the morning I would like to be able to get my newspaper quickly.
There is no newspaper stand nearby.
I still have not found the newspaper stand.
I always ask someone who knows where the stand is to bring me one back.
Fourthly, this week I have got into a lift five times and not been able to get out at my own floor.
I wanted to get out on the tenth floor.
It wasn' t on.
Five times that has happened to me.
Then I thought, "right, let' s avoid that particular lift" , and since then I have always tried to take another lift.
It is, of course, an intolerable situation in this building.
As the person responsible for a delegation - I chair the South-Eastern Europe Delegation, this has nothing to do with the Louise Weiss building, but with the Salvador de Madariaga building across the way - I would now like to make one more request.
At least four of the delegation staff occupy a tiny cell, which I previously had to myself.
The first is talking to Dagestan, the second to Moscow, the third to Macedonia and the fourth perhaps to Cologne.
Can you imagine it, in a single room?
Please could you do something for the members of staff!
The present situation is unbearable!
