Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, tobacco is a plant, and that has been evident in today's debate, during which opinions have been divided and which has been marked by repeated references to certain fundamental themes.
These references have chiefly come from Members not concerned with agriculture, who see the debate more in terms of social policy.
I would therefore like to thank the rapporteur very sincerely for all his efforts.
The importance of tobacco production in the agricultural sector of the European Union and of individual Member States varies widely.
I believe that for a number of reasons it would be unwise to abandon tobacco production in the EU without any compromises, as many people are demanding.
In many regions of Europe, tobacco growing is often the only viable form of agricultural production, and this applies particularly to a number of Objective 5(b) areas, including those in 'rich' countries such as Austria.
Many family farms working in difficult conditions are dependent on tobacco production, which represents their only source of income.
Switching to other agricultural products is often out of the question because of the climate.
I think we are all acutely aware of the social and economic pressure on the population of these regions.
My second point is that it is pretty unrealistic to expect that people would smoke less or even give up altogether if we completely stopped European tobacco production.
The result would just be that all our cigarettes and tobacco products would be imported from third countries.
I hope that you will not misunderstand me, as I attach great importance to a healthy lifestyle and I myself am a non-smoker.
Nevertheless I think that decisions about our own health should be left to the individual.
I think we should grant each person that much responsibility.
In this context, I would like to point out the need for an improvement in tobacco quality.
I would also like to stress that a voluntary halt to tobacco production in the EU should be possible, with financial support from the EU.
