Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, I shall be giving my approval to your Commission tomorrow.
However, I shall be taking some aspirin beforehand, and I shall probably need a double dose after the end of the hearings and in view of the results of these.
We had been told that the sun shone out of this Commission.
In fact, the Commission did come through the test, but hardly shone.
A number of Commissioners are suspected of having mislead Parliament, and there is the risk of the past catching up with a number of them.
A number of Commissioners were hardly filled with ambition, ability and the desire to continue working in the Commission, and the fact that this applies to candidates who are to be concerned with relations between the Commission and Parliament and with preparations for the Intergovernmental Conference is something I find very regrettable indeed.
Mr President of the Commission, I believe you have a bigger job in front of you than your Commission is aware.
I am voting for you with the sober insight that work has to begin and I am voting for you in the light of your very trustworthy promise to enter into an alliance with this European Parliament.
I am voting for you not because of the visions which, for the most part, you still owe us and for the ways leading to the fulfilment of these.
I believe that it is either in this Chamber or nowhere at all that the vision of European integration will arise.
However, we need the alliance you propose for the vision of a European democracy.
We need it for the vision of a peaceful order in Europe, and we need it for the vision of Europe as a single social and ecological area.
However, more is needed in order to achieve these things than you have so far set out.
For a European democracy, a constitutional process is needed; for a peaceful order in Europe, courage is needed to accept responsibility for our own security; and for the vision of Europe as a single social and ecological area it will be necessary for politics to be emancipated from an ever more aggressive neo-liberal ideology.
This may be a punishable offence for a parliamentarian of 20 years' standing, but I am voting for you out of hope and not yet out of conviction.
