Madam President, we welcome Mr Howitt's report on EU standards for European firms operating in developing countries.
The development of a European code of conduct is a very important aim which we must pursue vigorously.
It is an excellent idea to create a legal basis for this, Mr Howitt.
A model code of conduct is a necessity.
It is important that a European monitoring mechanism should be created, but a crucial factor from our point of view is the form that the monitoring and verification are to take.
Without monitoring and verification, a code of this type is an irrelevance.
The principle of voluntary action is important to us and must also underlie the legal basis in this domain.
Each firm must be free to commit itself as far as it feels able.
There must, however, be some compulsory minimum standards.
This reflects the ethics of our Community, and these ethics must also be applied in our dealings with the rest of the world.
So there should be binding standards as a minimum basis, supplemented by voluntary undertakings.
The cooperation you propose in the new global agreement with the ACP countries is important, and represents another addition that we support.
We are also in favour of stepping up the initiatives at European level.
I did not entirely understand what Mr Kittelmann was saying.
He spoke of morality and said that we shall find ways and means of developing this at some time.
I do not know how he intends to accomplish that.
He also seemed to make a slip of the tongue.
He was speaking on behalf of the Committee on External Economic Relations, yet he said in conclusion that the PPE Group could not accept the report.
Mrs Günther then seemed to say the opposite.
To borrow loosely from Brecht, first bellies are filled, then comes morality, and we know that capital is a great shark, and when it makes a killing in international business, the leftovers are few.
I also believe that this cannot be compared with the Helms-Burton Act.
Helms-Burton is a repressive measure on an international scale.
The aim of the present initiative is to create our own code of conduct for European firms.
We have other versions of this in the Basle Convention, in the Rhine Agreement within Europe, and in connection with the toxic waste that is shipped from Europe to South Africa, for instance, as the British example illustrates.
So we already have self-imposed codes of conduct to which we have committed ourselves.
That is why it is right and important that this initiative should be taken.
We support it and hope that a large majority of the House will do likewise.
