Mr President, I heartily endorse your words of gratitude to Mr Newman.
As he told us, he has been a member of the Committee on Petitions since it was created in January 1987.
I entered Parliament in March of the same year, and ever since then I have been a member of the Committee on Petitions, where I have been able to observe his efforts and his achievements on behalf of the European people.
I should like to express my sincere thanks to him for that and for this annual report.
May I also thank Mrs De Esteban Martín for her report on the Ombudsman's annual report.
Both of them, like Mr Söderman himself, have presented reports which show very comprehensively that dialogue with the people is an indispensable element of European democracy and will remain so.
What this means for us is that the Committee on Petitions is the interface between the European people and their Parliament when it comes to enforcing Community law.
Regrettably, that fact is all too often disregarded by national, regional and local authorities, whether out of unawareness or because of a combination of bureaucratic power and national self-seeking.
By acting as that link, we have been able to assist in some cases, for example in securing recognition of academic or professional qualifications and provision of welfare benefits, as well as in solving petitioners' specific problems.
So that this direct contact with the citizens of the Union continues to be guaranteed in future, we in the committee are unanimous in advocating the preservation of a separate Committee on Petitions.
In order to overcome the general information deficit among the people of Europe as regards their rights, we call on the relevant administrative departments of Parliament and the Commission to establish telephone advice centres in the Member States, and in particular to go on developing the whole sphere of information and communication technology with all the opportunities it offers.
Our cooperation with the Ombudsman has always been extremely fruitful.
For that I should like to reiterate my sincere thanks to Mr Söderman who, in his wrangling with European administrative bodies, has never been deterred by the initial placatory answers he has received from administrators but has insisted on a satisfactory response.
His initiatives and enquiries have brought greater transparency and openness to the European bureaucracy.
Indeed, the draft code of conduct for good administrative practice which the Commission presented in January was developed as a result of his own initiative, together with that of Mr Perry.
We therefore call for the Ombudsman to be given access to all documentation in the pursuit of his enquiries and for all civil servants to provide him with the information he needs, rather than having to refer him to their superiors; these measures must be implemented so that the Ombudsman can work without unnecessary obstacles.
I am convinced that cooperation between the Committee on Petitions, with its scope for intervention, and the Ombudsman, with his wide remit, will become an increasingly important factor in the promotion of democracy and the enforcement of citizens' rights in the European Union.
