Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, Tuesday evening is the time for the Committee on Transport and Tourism, so let us get to work again.
I want to thank the rapporteur, Mr Piecyk, very warmly for his report.
He has managed most successfully to incorporate the points we made at the time of the discussion on the green paper on seaports.
In terms of the white paper and amendment of the TEN proposal, he has included Parliament's views in his report and reconciled them.
That is a most important task and ensures that we do not have two different legal acts and follow different courses.
I believe it also demonstrates how right we were to be stubborn in 1996 and not to adopt the seaports proposal at the time.
For with the Piecyk report we now have a far more precise and clear definition of the tasks relating to supporting or not supporting seaports and inland ports.
I admit that, Commissioner, and also thank the Commission for improving its proposal compared to the original text.
In that respect, we have come closer to one another.
I also believe it is important for us to have a proper map of European seaports, for the public did not understand why we had a map showing airports, railway lines and roads, without any indication of seaports.
I agree with Mr Piecyk that including seaports in the maps does not mean that no other ports have a chance of achieving prominence in Europe; those ports simply have to manage that themselves.
I think that is the crucial point.
In particular, I think it is very good that we have a clear delineation between port infrastructure and port superstructure in the Piecyk report.
One of our central tasks continues to be to avoid distortions of competition between seaports through national aid or even aid from the Cohesion Fund or the Structural Funds.
That means we need clear definitions of port infrastructure and port superstructure.
I hope the Commission, Mr Kinnock, will agree with our more precise definition of project No 8.
The Council keeps talking about the Essen and Dublin projects, but we have always taken that to mean that this is a matter of codecision and not of a Council decision: it is after all a list of priority projects and not a list of generally applicable priority tasks.
Unfortunately No 8 was a generally applicable commitment.
We have defined it more precisely on the basis of the Commission's practical proposals, and we are prepared at the next stage perhaps to find a common, stronger, more precise definition.
But it is important that we are clear in our minds what the priorities are and do not restrict ourselves to generally non-applicable tasks.
I also agree with Mr Piecyk that we do not want a white paper on the TENs, for that always means two years of discussions and everyone in this House and everyone in the Council knows what we are talking about here.
We need a brief report summarising the experience gained and a clear review.
That is our task and I believe the Commissioner should do us that favour.
