Dear Daniel Cohn-Bendit, I am glad to have the pleasure of your company in the Chamber today.
Heckling
We find ourselves at present in a special situation.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I hope you will appreciate that the situation looks a little confused.
The opposition in Germany, the CDU/CSU, will urge Germany to show continuity in its European policy here in Parliament too.
I believe the statement you made today reflected that spirit of German continuity in its European policy and forms a basis for constructive cooperation on a number of issues in the coming months.
Of course we would also like to know whether you are the President of the Council for foreign affairs and the Chancellor is the Wilhelminian President of the Council for home affairs.
The differences that sometimes arise must, of course, be resolved.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will find it more difficult to achieve the necessary compromises at European level if the mood within Germany is different.
I hope you will manage to sort all this out!
Let me thank you most particularly for your words on institutional reform.
The Cologne summit must act as a mandate for more majority decisions and more co-decisions, as also for the charter of fundamental rights.
I believe that these matters must be carefully defined, with the participation of the European Parliament, so that in the next two years we can take the necessary steps to make the European Union capable of enlargement.
During your presidency of the Council you will have to implement a range of policies, such as the Common Foreign and Security Policy.
I would ask you, when you appoint the High Representatives and set up the planning and analysis unit, to perhaps listen more closely to national parliaments and to the European Parliament than to your diplomats, so that this becomes an added value for Europe rather than a board of political directors.
Let me make a final remark.
Everyone agrees that employment policy is an important issue.
That is why the former German Government approved and participated in the coordination of European employment policy in Amsterdam and in Luxembourg.
But we cannot go any further than coordination, than setting out objectives and benchmarking, because we do not have the instruments to do so.
This employment pact should not be used to give the impression that we can pursue a common wage scale policy from Finland to Portugal or embark on financing a labour market policy.
You spoke of labour market policy in your address.
We sometimes get the impression that a huge employment-policy show is to be put on shortly before the European elections in preparation for then producing an alibi for national elections, because Europe is held responsible for the failure of national employment policies.
Europe is too important to be wrongly blamed.
