Madam President, Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, as we have learned here in Parliament, in the alternation of presidencies what is important is not so much which country is in office or the abilities of its leading representatives as the underlying dynamic of the state of the Union.
And I really must say at this solemn moment that there is great cause for concern here.
Every person of sense now knows that the neo-liberal counter-reform has failed.
And yet we go on here as though nothing had happened and at best we keep setting up new corporative consultation mechanisms.
That is a good thing, but it is not the change of course that we need and without that change of course we will not satisfy the expectations of the peoples of Europe, who after all have been voting out the representatives of the neo-liberal counter-reform since 1995/96.
Why do we not have the courage, the strength and the imagination to bring about this change of course?
In this context, as a member of the Greens I particularly regret the resignation of my old friend Oskar Lafontaine.
Instead of seeing a clear change of course in European policy in year one of the euro and a move towards a new type of economic development that can also resolve the problem of mass unemployment, we are given a European employment pact that falls far short of what the Santer initiative once contained, that falls far short of what the original proposals that came from the presidency's German Ministry of Finance contained.
It is not a question of whether the bottle is half full or half empty; it is a question of whether there will be a bottle at all or whether all that is fashioned in Cologne is a paper bottle that cannot be filled with anything.
This is a fight we will now have to engage in, to ensure that we have a bottle that we can then fill.
So I ask colleagues for their solidarity and openly welcome the European marches against mass unemployment which will bring these demands into the open again in Cologne; I hope that will help jolt the summit into action.
