Mr President, Mr Fischer, I fully agree with your basic programme statements and they largely address long-standing concerns of Parliament's Group of the European Liberal, Democratic and Reformist Party.
Yet I must draw your attention to a discrepancy between what you have said today and the impression your Chancellor - who is after all a person of some importance to the European Union - is giving in all the debates in Germany and Europe, namely that the net contributor debate is the only real debate and that this is the crucial factor on which everything else depends!
I regret that because I believe that Europe is more than the sum of national interests and I felt a little nervous yesterday when on top of that your Chancellor emphasised that he would like to see a very open representation of German interests.
We all represent national interests too.
But I do not think that is a very suitable motto to choose for a presidency!
That is why I believe that we must take a very cautious approach to the net contributor debate.
It is quite clear that this debate is important.
But I would ask you not to put it at the beginning of our reform debates but to take it last.
First we must clarify the situation in regard to our aid systems.
Then we have to establish our financial requirements and then, at the end, we must determine how to achieve a fair burden-sharing.
During that concluding debate, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you will find that the liberals will speak very objectively and with all the necessary fairness.
Regarding the other points you made, I would highlight your statements on the Common Foreign and Security Policy, and especially what you said about human rights and the constitution of the European Union.
I wish you every success there.
But take care that your net contributor debate does not land you in the same boat as those who try to persuade us that the future lies in what would appear to be a Europe of Fatherlands!
Take care that you do not find yourselves landing back there!
Applause
