Commissioner, a central tenet of Christian social doctrine and of the PPE Group's statement of principles is partnership; that includes participation and joint decision making, as well as informing and consulting employees.
It was on this basis that our group made an important contribution here in Parliament in 1994 to the directive on European works councils, which was adopted almost unanimously.
Since then, it is true to say that European works councils have been a real success story and that with the agreement of employers, employees and unions they are increasingly widespread.
One of the aims of the EWC is to pass on information received from central management to the local employees' representatives in good time - across borders - so that they can do their job.
The system only works if national laws give the local employees' representatives adequate rights.
Amongst other things, this directive seeks to ensure that this is the case by setting minimum standards - minimum standards for information and consultation, not for participation in decision making.
Mrs Ghilardotti has produced a good and very thorough report, on which I would congratulate her.
In the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, she accepted a compromise solution on thresholds of 50 employees.
That is acceptable, Mrs Weiler, and it is what the Commission and the Legal Affairs Committee had in mind.
We are against total deletion of the provision on the protection of certain interest groups, as the report demands.
However, in our amendments we propose a solution along the same lines as the works councils directive, which provides for this protection but severely restricts it.
Quite simply, this is also about gaining broader support.
It is particularly important - especially for small and medium-sized companies - for the Member States to provide for waivers if passing on information does considerable damage to the company.
A release from these responsibilities must not be arbitrary, however, and that is why objective criteria need to be laid down and provision made if necessary for the granting of official or judicial authorisation.
A framework for national rules on information and consultation which is structured in this way and which respects subsidiarity, Mrs Ghilardotti, is something we want to vote for.
It is an important step towards building the social dimension and towards creating a proper partnership in the European Union and - you are right - it also has economic advantages.
It is precisely at a time of rapid change and in a global economy that a lack of information engenders mistrust and ultimately fear, leading to a breakdown in relations.
Information means transparency, which creates trust and avoids losses in European companies due to friction.
Employers and employees are equal winners here.
