Mr President, the Commission would like to begin by warmly thanking the committee and also the rapporteur.
Of course this is a subject on which opinions can differ, as they do here in the discussion too, for not every individual issue has undergone adequate scientific investigation and been supported by unequivocal findings.
Nevertheless we wanted to take a first step with our proposal.
For one thing, there is increasing concern - and that is undoubtedly true - on the part of experts too.
There is a wide debate, particularly among the public, which is not always very objective but which does of course create doubts in the public mind.
That is why we believe it is right, given also that the Maastricht Treaty commits us to aim for a high level of public health, to propose a common framework of basic restrictions and reference levels under this recommendation.
One thing I want to say quite clearly here, since Mrs Riis-Jørgensen also put this question to the Commission - even if she has gone now; indeed it is sadly becoming increasingly common for Members to put questions and then to disappear - is that even if you raise the question of scientific findings, our proposal is based on the recommendations of the International Commission on Non-Ionising Radiation Protection and on the positions of the Commission's Scientific Steering Committee.
So it is not the case that we have not taken account of these scientific positions.
I could now discuss all the amendments, but that would be going too far, given also that this is a recommendation.
But let me say that we can accept in whole or in part Amendments Nos 1, 3, 4, 5, 7, 8, 10 and 13.
Other amendments go far beyond the recommendation, for instance in assuming that this kind of recommendation also has legal implications, which is not the case.
By definition a recommendation is addressed to Member States and they may follow it but are not obliged to do so, which means that this kind of recommendation cannot lay down other legal commitments.
That applies in particular to the question of minimum safety distances.
Mr Schnellhardt made a few comments on this question that are worth considering.
But I must say that even if everything he says is right - and basically I have no doubt it is - we cannot lay down any binding minimum safety distances in the recommendation.
Then there is Amendment No 12.
We have already made provision for a review system.
That means that we will of course ourselves draft a report for the Union, on the basis of the Member States' reports, and naturally we will take account of all the new scientific findings as they become known.
If necessary, the Commission will act at once.
But it is also certain that we cannot act according to the principle that this is a matter of health and that we must therefore discontinue all our activities, even if that cannot be justified on scientific grounds.
We cannot proceed according to that kind of principle.
I am saying this with particular reference to some of the comments made by the Greens.
If, for instance, we switched off the entire electricity network, I wonder what the public would say to that.
Heckling
I did say 'if'.
So if we want to proceed in a sensible manner here, we can only do so in the light of and on the basis of scientific findings.
Any other approach would be arbitrary and not right.
That could not be justified in a constitutional state!
What is called the precautionary principle relates to very restricted exceptional cases in which it allows us to do something when we do not yet have the relevant scientific findings.
And the Commission does apply that principle.
For example we introduced very strict limits for baby food, even though there are no scientific findings, because in that case it was justified, even in terms of the expenditure involved, to do something although we did not know whether it was necessary.
But obviously we cannot make that a general principle.
If we were to proceed according to this principle, the end results really would be totally absurd.
And you cannot expect that of the Commission.
