Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, last September the Commission presented us with a White Paper with the rather unwieldy title 'Fair payment for infrastructure use: a phased approach to a common transport infrastructure charging framework in the EU'.
Behind that cumbersome title, however, is a proposed new European transport system in which mileage travelled would be charged with the aid of electronic data transfer, a system that would guarantee sustainable mobility.
The subject is not new.
Back in 1997, we voted on the report relating to the Commission Green Paper on this same matter; I was the rapporteur on that occasion too.
And now it is time to develop specific legal mechanisms.
One reason why the European transport system is threatened with collapse is that we have the fundamental problem of distortions of competition in the transport markets.
The cost of a journey is not met by the party who causes the journey to be made, but by the general public.
Distortions of competition between modes of transport and between individual EU Member States are the result.
At the present time there are nine different charging systems in Europe for the use of the rail infrastructure, with subsidisation ranging between zero and 100 %.
Road tax and road-pricing systems vary enormously.
There are differences of up to EUR 3 000 a year between national rates of road tax, for example.
Moreover, charges are seldom levied as and when they are incurred.
They generally bear no relation to the environmental costs or to other external costs.
At the moment, therefore, users have no incentive to alter their transport habits in any way.
In the White Paper, the Commission proposes that the user should pay all the internal and external costs that he or she incurs.
Charges are to be levied on the same basis in every Member State, namely on the basis of so-called marginal social cost.
The marginal social cost comprises the average variable infrastructure costs plus the external costs.
My report endorses the Commission approach.
We must move in the proposed direction if we want to achieve a better distribution of the volume of traffic among the various modes of transport.
The target date of 2004 and the establishment of committees containing government experts makes the implementation of this approach appear realistic, especially since it does not involve grafting a ready-made system onto any national structure but rather the joint development of solutions with the 15 Member States.
In my report, I also suggest the possibility of reinforcing the charging system based on marginal social cost with measures in the realm of transport-related taxes, by which I mean coordinating these taxes on a European scale, lowering them where necessary.
That would give us an acceptable graduated pricing system.
In its White Paper, the Commission only took account of commercial transport and did not include private cars in the charging system.
I believe, however, that the 'user pays' principle can only be effectively applied to transport if all those who contribute to the problems are expected to contribute to their solution.
Traffic jams, accidents and environmental pollution, of course, are caused just as much by private cars as by commercial vehicles.
In this context I should like the Commission to examine, as a matter of urgency, whether private cars could not perhaps be included in the charging framework.
At the same time, it is important to conduct information campaigns to make it clear to the public that this is all about introducing an environmentally friendly and sustainable transport system and is not another scheme designed to fleece motorists.
Heckling
No, that is not the case.
That is why it is quite unhelpful when the public are deliberately misled, even by Members of this Parliament.
At the beginning of this week, Mr Ferber issued a press statement with the heading 'Pure highway robbery!'
I consider that sort of thing to be irresponsible, because either that statement was a deliberate distortion of the truth or Mr Ferber has read neither the White Paper nor the report on which we voted in committee.
Let me close by saying that we cannot accept the amendments tabled by the PPE Group through Mr Jarzembowski, because they are virtually tantamount to total rejection of the White Paper.
The other groups cooperated very constructively in the preparation of this report, and I should like to thank them for that.
Our cooperation with Commissioner Kinnock and Directorate-General VII was also very fruitful.
I am grateful for that, and at the same time I would ask the Commission to make a determined effort to implement the White Paper, so that this approach, which my group and I support, can be put into practice, for I am firmly convinced that this White Paper will pave the way for sustainable mobility in Europe.
