Mr President, I naturally voted for the Thyssen report, but I must express my disappointment at the opinion delivered by the Commission on our amendments just before midnight last night, when three of us were still here.
Admittedly, Commissioner van den Broek, who is not himself responsible for competition policy, could only read out what the Commission services, or more precisely Mr Van Miert's department, had written for him.
I must therefore strongly warn the Commission against rejecting our Amendments Nos 1, 2 and 3 to both of the draft regulations.
These amendments are a sign of our political will to ensure that small breweries such as those in my country are not driven to the wall because they are no longer allowed to conclude the sort of supply contracts that exist at the present time.
These contracts have been operating to the satisfaction of the breweries on the one hand and of landlords, restaurateurs and hoteliers on the other.
For this sector, as for service stations, there must be either an exception to the general rule or a sector-by-sector approach within the general regulatory framework.
It is also unacceptable that in smaller markets, such as the Luxembourg market, breweries exceeding a market share of, say, 40 % would be ineligible for such exemptions.
Since the Luxembourg breweries can quickly reach that sort of threshold in our small market, such a rule would lead to the crazy situation in which a major German brewery, such as Bitburger, which produces vastly greater quantities of beer than the largest brewery in Luxembourg, could still conclude contracts for the supply of beer to public houses in Luxembourg, because the total amount it supplied would be well within the limit of 40 % of the huge German beer market to which Bitburger would be subject.
The Luxembourg brewery, however, could no longer do that, which would spell the end for it.
That must be avoided at all costs.
If there must be reference markets, they cannot be restricted to mini-markets such as Luxembourg but must be defined on a regional or European scale.
I hope that the Commission, and Mr Van Miert in particular, will rethink this matter very thoroughly.
Resolution on imports of garlic
