Madam President, Commissioner - for the moment - I listened carefully to what you had to say.
Your speech surprised me; no, actually it did not surprise me.
But in fact it did surprise me, because there are only two explanations for it.
Either you cannot read, or you had a preconceived opinion and wanted this opinion to be confirmed, and that is why you do not like the scientific reports.
Let us consider where we stand today.
You said that it was a legal and economic issue.
Is it a legal issue?
The WTO Appellate Body has told us to prove that there is a health risk.
Has it not been proven?
The danger is proven, so where does that leave us today?
Mrs Mann said that we were not actually sure how we should react, and Mr Kittelmann said that any action we took had to be legal and actually workable.
Mr Kittelmann, I look forward with great interest to seeing how you explain to your voters at the elections to the parliament in Berlin what is legal and actually workable.
It was 20 years ago, Sir Leon, when colleagues of yours did this in your country, the United Kingdom, and look where that got us with BSE.
You are well on the way to continuing that process with the government of the United Kingdom, should you believe that you have their support.
Let us just consider where we are.
We have six hormones.
The scientific reports say that all of them pose a risk to health and that one of them both causes cancer and aggravates it, and you dare to say in all seriousness, Sir Leon, that now there should be greater transparency.
Is that what you have in your Directorate-General and in your private office?
I would love to know.
There should be greater transparency, we need new analyses: which ones then?
Ones which support and match what you actually want?
And you say that we need new scientific data.
Which data would that be, Sir Leon?
I know that really you were in favour of the labelling option.
Anyone who can read, see and hear knows that.
But you also know what the labelling option means.
A piece of meat can perhaps be labelled, but nothing which derives from it can be, not minced meat and nothing, nothing, nothing more!
You, the Commission, repeatedly told us this, did you not, when we were in favour of comprehensive labelling and wanted that in Parliament.
Anyone who is in favour of labelling now is saying loud and clear: we actually accept health risks, we do not take any notice of them, and we accept that people will be at risk, including children who have not reached puberty - Mr Graefe zu Baringdorf made that point.
Mr Kittelmann, go out onto the streets in Berlin and say: 'but it does say on the label that it is highly dangerous for children during puberty and for everyone else as well; and if people already have cancer it encourages more tumours to form, and in addition it can be carcinogenic'.
Go on, why not?
I could not hope for more in the election campaign!
Now just tell me one thing, Sir Leon.
You will not be in office for much longer, and that is why I do not actually need to hold too intensive a discussion with you.
Whom are you actually representing here?
Are you representing the USA, or are you representing the European Union?
If so, whom in the European Union?
Certainly not consumers, because if so you would be aware that one of the basic principles of European Union legislation is that only safe, completely harmless products are allowed onto the market, and even then they are labelled.
You see, a label is not a warning notice, Sir Leon; a label provides consumers with information, but the assumption is that the products are safe.
That is not the case here, and what you are doing at the moment is what I would normally describe as reckless, but it is irresponsible, and I will make it clear in public what the Christian Democrats here in this House stand for!
