Mr President, I would firstly like to thank Mr Colajanni and Mr Sakellariou for their very committed reports which really show the direction that Europe should take.
However, I would also like to thank Mr Tomlinson and Mr Samland, as I firmly believe that the links between foreign policy, the budget and budgetary control must be strengthened in future so that perhaps some of the things that have happened recently could be avoided.
Being involved in foreign affairs, I know how important financial resources are in conducting foreign policy, but as a Member of Parliament I also know that we in this House and also the public must be sure that the resources are used properly and efficiently.
I also wish to comment on a point raised by Commissioner Marín.
It was really very interesting, Commissioner.
You said that we must decide between policy and financial stringency.
Perhaps together we can find a way of combining the two, of taking very useful action in the political sphere and yet being at least efficient in financial terms.
You are right on one point: Parliament itself was probably not prepared to make the link between policy and financial stringency.
We, at least in my group, are fully behind what you proposed here yesterday.
We will support you in uniting policy and financial stringency.
I have two comments on what Mr Sakellariou proposed.
I support what he said about Libya.
I have myself visited Libya and spoken to those in charge, and I believe that many people there are ready and willing to become part of the international community once again.
The conditions you mentioned, Commissioner, will of course still apply.
Perhaps I could make one further point about the Colajanni report as I and others prepare for a trip to Syria and Lebanon.
I believe that we must do everything we can to encourage Israel to withdraw from Lebanon, in its own interest and in the interest of the peace process, so that a similar process can then be begun with Syria in relation to the Golan Heights.
Finally, I would call upon the Commission and the Council to approach 4 May 1999, an important historical date for the Palestinians, in such a way that it does not provoke renewed conflict but instead marks a further step towards peace.
