Mr President, as US Ambassador Vernon Weaver recently made quite plain in the Committee on External Economic Relations, the current banana war is a test case.
The real test will come when the EU bans meat containing hormones in a few weeks' time.
Next on the cards - and here too Mr Weaver did not mince his words - will come genetic manipulation.
Under the pretext of offering the consumer a wider choice, US firms are to be allowed to put genetically modified tomatoes and laboratory-made soya on our supermarket shelves.
And if possible they will not label it as such, since the poor consumer might find it too hard to take in so much information!
The issue goes far beyond bananas.
That is precisely why we cannot give way to the unjustified US demand, even though and in fact just because they are threatening lunatic sanctions.
After one WTO panel we revised the organisation of the banana market.
Whether that revised regime is compatible with the rules is something that same panel will decide again.
Any form of US sanction against European firms prior to the panel's findings would deprive the WTO of all meaning.
If any penalty duty is imposed before the panel's findings, we might as well shut down the WTO.
Unfortunately the Commission has to take some of the blame for this situation.
The founders of the WTO manoeuvred themselves into this position because world trade is not being regulated according to the principle of sustainable development, consumer protection and social protection.
Instead the ruling principles are economic growth and profit seeking.
With a view to the forthcoming millennium round, it is high time to formulate concrete reform proposals.
Precautionary measures, the environment and local development must become the guiding principles of economic action.
At the high-level WTO meetings in March, the Commission ought to begin by submitting the appropriate documents if it really wants, as promised, to make transparency the primary obligation of EU officials.
Today's protests in front of Parliament by the French farmers have given some idea of what they think of the adjustment to the world market and the mania for liberalisation and deregulation, as also what they will be capable of once they really get going.
