Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating Mr Hoppenstedt on his last speech, which was very much to the point and summed up what all this is about, namely linking modern technology with nature and mankind.
He has been very successful in fighting for this in his time in the European Parliament, for which I congratulate him.
The world exhibition in Hanover is to run from 1 June to the end of October 2000, in other words about a year before euro notes and coins come into circulation.
The whole world will be there, as millions of visitors converge on Hanover not just from the 15 Member States, but also from the rest of the globe.
One hundred and seventy countries and 14 international organisations are to exhibit, so it is important for Parliament, the Commission and the Council to start thinking now about the meetings they could organise, because a visit to the world exhibition should also primarily involve meeting up with other people, holding conferences and reaching agreements.
It is an ideal platform for us in Europe, and it is one that we should exploit to the maximum.
As far as the European Parliament is concerned, I would also urge that we should hold our interparliamentary meetings there, for example.
Hanover has an extremely modern conference centre which is right there on the exhibition site, and it has excellent infrastructure with full interpreting facilities.
It would be a good opportunity to show the rest of the world outside Europe the possibilities that Europe has for the future.
I would like attention to be focused in particular on the 'Edu-tainment Centre', placing the 'learning adventure' - lifelong learning - at the centre of our efforts.
We should show what the European Union has already achieved, and we should ensure that all the information is made available on VDUs, on the Internet, on multimedia, for young people, the elderly, in fact anyone interested, in the form of 'Infotainment'.
I think the 'learning adventure' is a special challenge, and this modern way of learning is very important and a tremendous opportunity for schoolchildren, students and everyone else.
Finally, we must take advantage of the infrastructure around Hanover, which has been developed to a very high standard.
I am already looking forward to the opening of this major exhibition.
