Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I can certainly endorse much of what has been said here this afternoon, but by no means all of it.
Who among us is not following these events with growing concern?
Have we not for years defended human rights in every sitting here in the European Parliament?
I will do the same here today for the last time.
We have been fairly vocal in defending human rights, sometimes for small groups of people.
Here we are concerned with hundreds of thousands of people whose rights are being repeatedly violated - I do not need to give all the details again here - and this is happening in a part of Europe that was formerly very popular among tourists.
In my view there are two very different aspects to the NATO response.
For the first time a regional alliance of nations is emerging to defend these people's human rights, to restore stability to a part of Europe that has for eight years seen one set of violations lead to another, and always for the same reasons.
The UN, however, failed completely as it was not able to apply either its Charter or international law in practice; instead, a lot of what it said remained merely empty words, and it did not manage to prevent the conflicts for which it was actually created.
Anyone who lived through the Second World War, as I did, knows what it is like to experience bombs and see burning houses and victims of war at close quarters.
We would not wish it on anyone, and certainly not on the Serbian people and Serbian children whose leader's madness has driven them to ruin in the same way as it has hundreds of thousands of others.
No one has anything against the Serbian people.
Each one of us would protect Serbian children in the same way as we would Kosovar or Albanian children.
We must at long last speak out to condemn this madness.
We must realise that we cannot only summon the UN when we need it.
Parliament will make every effort to ensure that this region is rebuilt when the time comes, and I also see this commitment in Emma Bonino, in Mr van den Broek and in others with whom we have worked for a long time.
Every opportunity for negotiation must be used, but only when the madness has been ended and we really can provide these people with a home, protection and peace.
