Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I have been in this Parliament long enough to not really believe that a debate of this kind can actually change people's minds, and yet I will still try to do so; I am not referring to you, Mr Monti, you are no longer our partner.
The Council will be our partner in the codecision procedure, but I am looking to the other side of the House.
I am addressing you, Mrs Grossetête, because we have discussed this matter directly in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection and here in the Chamber too.
You said I was amending the content of the directive too much.
You referred to the definition.
That is precisely where I am protecting the farmers, as your colleagues have just said.
Mrs Flemming has just said it again too.
These are amendments that I have taken over and that came from your group and my group and I am assuming that you will have to endorse Amendments Nos 1 and 2, particularly if you want to support the farmers.
Moreover, I would ask you again to look very closely at Amendments Nos 5 and 6, the question of extending the expiry date for hidden defects and of increasing the total liability amount.
With regard to the question of extending the expiry date for hidden defects, in the past few weeks 10 people have contracted the new variant of CJD, 10 people!
These people have been infected with the disease at some point in the last few years, in the last 15, 18 or 20 years, we do not know exactly when.
It was a hidden defect and the people who have been injured have to prove this themselves.
The injured person is responsible for proving it!
You can imagine how often he would succeed in doing so, and yet we want to offer that chance.
I am convinced we must do so.
At the same time, some Members said that increasing the liability amount we allow the Member States from EUR 70 million to EUR 140 million is something we leave up to the Member States and is still not an enormous total amount.
Mrs Grossetête, you said something that worried me a little but to which I would also respond.
You said that farmers fear the future in any case.
But what we are doing is precisely to protect the farmers!
Just consider this: a farmer may buy animal fodder in all good conscience and feed it to his animals in the conviction that it contains no animal protein because it is not labelled as such, these are still not labelled.
Yet it does contain animal protein and his animals contract BSE and damage occurs.
Then it is not he who is responsible but the supplier of the animal fodder!
What we are doing is precisely to protect the farmer with the amendments on hidden defects.
So I would ask you again to take a look at Amendments Nos 5 and 6 and at least to try to support them, in addition to Nos 1 and 2, so that we can perhaps fight together for an even better solution during the conciliation procedure.
