Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 15 March 1999, under my chairmanship, the Council of Economic and Finance Ministers adopted a clear position: no leniency, zero tolerance of fraud and corruption in the Community.
Abuse of the money which belongs to the people of the Union damages the Community's reputation; headlines about it weaken public support for integration and push the Union's successes into the background.
That is why the creation of the new Fraud Investigation Office is a great opportunity for the Community and an important objective of our presidency.
The Council, Parliament and the Commission can hereby demonstrate their will and ability to protect Community resources effectively.
If we succeed in setting up the Office by 1 June this year, as planned, then this will be an important sign, and the fact that this is just a few days before the European Parliament elections will lend it a particular significance.
I believe that we have managed - in close cooperation with the European Parliament - to produce a workable blueprint.
I should like to single out three aspects of this.
Firstly, the proposal you have before you ensures that the Office will take effective action wherever the interests of the Community are at stake.
The Office has not only been tasked with external control - and this is undoubtedly important, because it is the Member States which administer around 80 % of Community aid - it will also be an independent guardian of Community interests within the bodies and institutions of the Community.
Many speakers have already pointed out the significance of this.
Secondly, even though the Office is being set up within the Commission, its operational independence is guaranteed.
The Director of the Office may not seek or accept instructions from anyone.
Decisions on opening, conducting and evaluating investigations are his personal responsibility.
The Commission can only appoint the Director in agreement with the European Parliament and the Council.
A committee of external, independent individuals will supervise and protect the Director's autonomous running of the Office.
Thirdly, although public interest is currently focused on uncovering suspected irregularities, prevention is of not inconsiderable importance.
That is another reason why the blueprint for OLAF is a good start, because the Office is called upon to collaborate on the overall strategy for fraud prevention and will also make its experience available for preventive initiatives.
With your permission, I will also say a few words on the timetable.
The Office is meant to be created by 1 June.
Adoption by ECOFIN is planned for 25 May.
Afterwards the regulation will be signed by both the President of the European Parliament and the President-in-Office of the Council.
The accompanying agreement will be signed by the Presidents of the three bodies - Parliament, the Council and the Commission.
The other bodies and institutions are requested to enter into the agreement.
Finally, I should like to highlight the trusting and constructive cooperation we have enjoyed with the European Parliament delegation, in particular Mrs Theato and the rapporteur, Mr Bösch, and with Commissioner Gradin.
For all those who have worked on OLAF this has been an encouraging experience, which also bodes well for future cooperation.
