Mr President, even in the peaceful states of Central and Eastern Europe we see that economic and financial assistance have no effect without the rule of law and good governance.
But this is particularly the case in a country destroyed by war, where the war may have ended but peace has not yet been achieved.
There is crime and corruption everywhere, even in our own countries, but of course it is far worse in a country whose future is something not many people believe in and who therefore feel that they need to feather their own nests quickly before everything falls apart.
Through statements like those made by Lord Owen, who said that Republika Srpska might be annexed to Serbia after all, we are supporting crime and mismanagement.
This destroys confidence that the country of Bosnia-Herzegovina will continue to exist in the future, and that is dangerous because it could bring all our economic and financial efforts to nothing.
I therefore hold the view that we need political stability, and this primarily involves the return of displaced people and refugees.
I regret that so far the Commission and the Council have not been able to give me any statistics on how many displaced people and refugees have returned to each entity, so that we could make a scientific comparison of how many have returned to the Muslim Croat Federation and how many, or rather how few, have been able to go back to Republika Srpska - virtually none in the latter case.
If we had figures available we would see what the ratio was.
Therefore I urgently request that such data be provided to help us assess the situation.
As far as Brcko is concerned, neutrality is certainly better than annexing it to Serbia against the will of the people, but this neutrality can only be a transitional solution.
It must be internationally guaranteed.
It brings back fateful memories of the Baltic Corridor before the Second World War.
We have to recognise that true peace is still a long way off for this country.
Step by step we must try to bolster stability, but we should also realise that it will take years, maybe even decades, for normal conditions to be restored.
I therefore welcome the Schwaiger report for its practical and critical attitude and also for its endeavours to help people in specific ways and to consolidate administration and the rule of law, without which there will be fresh waves of refugees, and the return of refugees and all the reconstruction work we have done, of which many are justifiably so proud, will immediately come under threat if the highly fragile peace there is destroyed.
Dayton was just a first step, and a thoroughly inadequate agreement at that, and we need to make considerable improvements to it here.
