Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur, let me begin by thanking my colleagues on the Committee on Transport and Tourism for their constructive cooperation.
The report was adopted unanimously by the committee after detailed discussions among the individual Members and the groups.
So you see that, for all the issues that may be discussed today and tomorrow in this Chamber, there is still a constructive and cooperative working atmosphere in the specialised committees.
My sincere thanks go to my colleagues for that.
In our report, we have delivered an opinion on the Green Paper of December 1997.
We have been relatively quick and have tried to incorporate all the information we obtained from the port operators and the trade unions.
So we did not attempt to confine our deliberations and our labours on the Green Paper within an ivory tower.
Together with the Commission, we reached the conclusion - and this was not always the view in port circles - that there ought to be an effective European policy on sea ports, albeit limited in scope in deference to the solidarity principle.
That had been disputed for many years.
As we see it, this European sea ports policy has two primary objectives.
The first is to establish fair competition at long last among the European sea ports.
There is still no escaping the conclusion that competition among sea ports is distorted by regional and national aid, and that is simply in total contradiction to the principles underlying the single European market.
As for the second objective, we are entirely convinced that the interests of sustainable mobility would be best served if the Community's supply lines did not converge on a small number of major ports but if a thoroughly decentralised system were used with numerous peripheral ports, thereby avoiding a great many overland transport operations and making the transport system easier on the environment.
This would naturally imply the need to promote the development of some of the smaller ports or the creation of new ports, but that too must be governed by the precept of non-interference with fair competition among the sea ports.
So what are the concrete implications of these two objectives in terms of what we are asking the Commission to do?
First of all, the Commission should at long last present a transparency study on the conditions of competition between and within sea ports.
I have already said that national and regional aid distorts competition.
But it also handicaps those ports and companies which have become more efficient through their own efforts and want to remain effective.
Steps must be taken to ensure that efficiency cannot be undermined by illegal subsidies, but the relevant facts must be on the table.
You have a host of facts, but you have not collated these facts and presented them to us.
That is our first priority.
Secondly, irrespective of the transparency study, the Commission is already required to impose penalties for the violation of competition law and to investigate suspected infringements.
You should do that more often.
You know a great deal, but it is our view that we need guidelines on aid to sea ports and on verifying compliance with competition law if all ports and port companies are to be treated fairly, and we need those guidelines before 2001, which is the date suggested in a paper from your institution, Commissioner.
In actual fact, we should have had them five years ago.
We need clear guidelines so that, when it comes to certain practices which have become established in one or other of the Member States, it can be made clear that the practice in question has to stop.
The system must be changed.
We need fair competition.
The ports and companies will have to learn to live with that.
Another essential aspect of these guidelines is that the funding of infrastructure facilities in the realm of port operations and maritime transport must be subdivided into three categories: public ports, where infrastructural measures need not be notified or checked because they do not constitute state aid; company-related measures in the domain of port infrastructure, which constitute state aid unless they are refinanced and therefore do not possess the characteristics of aid, otherwise they are subject to aid legislation; company-related measures in the domain of port superstructure, on the other hand, are always subject to aid legislation in our view, in other words they are essentially inadmissible.
I shall not go into the question of exceptions here.
In conclusion, let me make this appeal to the Commission: create transparency, take action against offenders, but do not create new legislation, Commissioner.
Our committee takes the view that, at least for the time being, there is no need for either a directive on port-related infrastructure, fees or terminals, or a directive on market access for providers of port services.
I can assure you that Dutch tugs have penetrated the Hamburg market, and tugs from Hamburg are achieving the breakthrough in Antwerp.
It will work without new legislation if the Commission supports the market forces.
That is why we ask the Commission to carry on working with the current legislation.
Spare yourselves the trouble of making new laws, and operate instead with the existing legislation on state aid and competition; protect the ports that are progressing by their own efforts, and let us cooperate in supporting the others, but the paramount aim must be to preserve a level playing field.
