Mr President, the Christian Democrats support the line taken by the Commission and the rapporteur, whom we thank for his good report.
We believe that only through constructive dialogue can we make progress.
In reply to Mr Dupuis I would say that I share many of his views, but none of our urgent resolutions did any good.
We must begin a constructive dialogue and strengthen it, and I hope the other side, the People's Republic of China, understands that we are willing to meet it halfway if it does the same for us.
Both sides bear a great responsibility.
Firstly, the European Union would like and hopes to see the People's Republic of China take the necessary domestic steps to enable it to become a member of the World Trade Organisation as soon as possible.
We are also quite prepared, if it so wishes, to support the People's Republic of China in achieving its own objectives, to support it in transforming its economic system from a bureaucratic planned economy into a socialist market economy.
Above all, we believe that in the interests of trade and investment the approach taken by the People's Republic of China must lead to reforms of the legal and taxation system, otherwise world trade cannot continue to flourish.
Signing the UN conventions does not suffice for the development of human rights and democracy and we should tell our friends quite clearly that as we see it the principles of democracy and human rights also require the recognition of, in particular, political parties of a different tendency, the recognition of the cultural autonomy of regions such as Tibet, the civil rights of the individual and the release of persons imprisoned because of the exercise of their civil rights.
This message should in fact have got through today too.
Allow me to make one more comment on the subject of peace and stability in Asia.
Recognition of the existence of the State of Taiwan and of the rights of its citizens to self-determination is a fundamental condition for stability there.
The talks between the representatives of the People's Republic of China and of Taiwan are promising signs that both sides are moving towards a peaceful solution.
