Mr President, we are in the midst of a transition from an industrial society to a society based on knowledge, in which education is the new social issue.
If every individual is to be in a position to pursue a variety of professions during their career thanks to technological change, then we have to create the necessary conditions.
One major building block on the way to creating a Europe of knowledge is the Socrates programme for general education, as Leonardo is for vocational training.
These education and training programmes improve individuals' knowledge and abilities and equip them for the future.
Good quality school education and the application of our concept of life-long learning are a way of mastering many of the challenges facing us, for the profile of tomorrow's workers is as follows: the ability to develop leadership abilities and to act independently, while at the same time showing a team spirit and social skills.
Workers and managers must be able to communicate and represent their own interests and aims while also showing an awareness of what appear to be alien cultures, identifying the differences and trying to break down the barriers.
How else, if not by improving their linguistic knowledge, can people become more mobile, can they study away from home anywhere in Europe, can they complete a training course or find a job?
The fact that Socrates supports language teaching even in less familiar European languages is a plus in terms of solidarity.
The proposals put forward by Mrs Pack, a proponent of practical policies, deserve unreserved support.
I have learned from my visits to schools, at which Europe is put to the test nearly every Monday, how much support there is for Socrates, despite all the problems with applications for funding.
Exchanges between pupils and encounters between teachers carry more weight than any number of glossy brochures.
But what is the use of splendid ideas if they do not serve the general good?
The EUR 2.5 million we are calling for is a minimum if you look at the growing circle of recipients, if you look at the number of applicant countries.
Socrates is an exemplary, sensible and verifiable investment in the future.
