Madam President, I am sure that the examples used by the rapporteur at the start of his presentation are not in any way figments of someone's imagination, but there are also plenty of examples of companies conducting their foreign investments in a responsible manner.
If we look at these flagrant abuses that have been allowed to occur on the one hand and the many valuable global contributions of European companies on the other, we must surely have reason to hope that we can reach a solution in the end and bring about a reduction in the number of cases that we have been so loudly lamenting today.
I also see this whole thing in the context of our noble aim of supporting good governance, wherever it exists, through our development cooperation.
In my view, this also involves encouraging the countries of the third world to ensure that their own legislation, their jurisprudence and the implementation of their statutes and case-law create the sort of standards and provisions which would more or less eliminate the issue of extraterritoriality raised by Mr Kittelmann.
It is right to view the report in the context of a number of agreements, standards and conventions.
I believe we should really focus on the need to ensure that the decisions which have already been taken are actually implemented, and that we monitor the way in which promises are being honoured.
The numerous declarations that have already been made in this area were one of the reasons why the committee members from my group did not necessarily see it as a priority for the committee to produce this report on its own initiative and why we were initially opposed to dealing with this subject at the present time.
On the other hand, these codes of conduct are absolutely acceptable to us if they are adopted on a voluntary basis and if there is scope for us to publicise the involvement of companies in such schemes, including details of their compliance or non-compliance with the code of conduct, so that pressure can also be exerted by public opinion, which is certainly a very potent instrument.
I have already indicated that we are opposed to the exercise of extraterritorial jurisdiction.
I am not entirely convinced of the cogency of the examples cited by the rapporteur, because the question of arms exports concerns the Member States, which deal with such matters on the basis of their own export regulations.
We should not create a situation in which the appearance of weapons in any country legitimises some kind of recourse against the country of origin.
We should also beware of bracketing the infringement of social and environmental standards with child abuse, of all things, because the latter involves a paramount legal interest which is unquestionably eligible for extraterritorial protection, whereas I cannot see that the same applies to the former.
The third critical issue in this report was the question of a so-called monitoring mechanism.
All manner of bodies were to cooperate within this mechanism, which would be coordinated by the European Parliament.
We cannot see any legal basis for such a mechanism.
During the negotiations we arrived at a number of compromises, and I hope that the report is acceptable in its present form and that we are all flexible enough to steer it successfully through the final vote.
