Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, this really is a very important report.
In recent years Parliament has adopted various decisions, particularly in resolutions on budgetary matters, which have repeatedly stressed that this House would like to see a statute for parliamentary assistants to Members.
We all remember the report by the Court of Auditors which came before us a few months ago, and which was by no means uncritical - I am choosing my words carefully - of the remuneration of assistants.
I accordingly believe that it is high time that the issues of assistants' pay and their conditions of employment were sorted out one way or another.
However, and this is the important point, we need to approach this in a serious and rational manner.
Although the proposal that we are now considering has been presented by the European Commission, it was not actually prepared by the Commission, but by European Parliament officials.
It was entrusted to the President of the Commission by the President of Parliament with a request to adopt it.
I have to say that I find this proposal unacceptable in the form we have before us.
The proposal essentially provides for the conditions of employment of other servants to be included in a new Article 78, the gist of which is that parliamentary assistants are categorised as other servants of the European Union, and furthermore that the details of the conditions of employment should be laid down in general administrative provisions to be enacted by Parliament itself.
That is the heart of the problem.
The legal basis of the Staff Regulations and the conditions of employment of other servants, that is to say the Merger Treaty, does not provide for an enabling regulation for Parliament.
For that reason I have always been critical of this Commission proposal, or rather the proposal prepared by Parliament's administration, because it does not deal with the question of implementing regulations.
Nor am I the only one of this opinion: in its judgment of 7 May 1992, the European Court of Justice made exactly the same point.
The Court of Justice then ruled, and I am quoting now, that: 'The general implementing provisions issued under the Staff Regulations may lay down criteria by which the administration should be guided in exercising its discretion or to clarify the meaning of unclear provisions of the Staff Regulations.
They may not, however, indirectly limit the scope of the Staff Regulations by restating in more precise terms an already clear provision of those regulations'.
In plain English, that means that implementing regulations may not conflict with the spirit of the Staff Regulations.
If they do, they are invalid and should be disregarded.
They do not have the same legal force as the Staff Regulations themselves.
On this basis, the European Court of Auditors stated the following in a report to the Council of Ministers, prepared at the request of the Council, in the form of an opinion on this Commission proposal: 'In the present case, general implementing provisions which preclude the application of normal unambiguous provisions of the Staff Regulations, particularly with regard to length of service, for a particular category of auxiliary staff, may be regarded as unlawful and their application could be challenged in an action against a particular case decision'.
In other words, the Court of Auditors totally agrees with your rapporteur and with the European Court of Justice that if we adopt the Commission proposal, the implementing regulations will be thrown back at us and in the end only the provisions of the Staff Regulations for officials and other servants will apply.
This will make it impossible to take account of the special conditions of employment of parliamentary assistants.
The result will then quite simply be - and I am estimating that there are 2 000 parliamentary assistants - 2 000 additional European Parliament officials.
I think that demonstrates a lack of responsibility and is contrary to the spirit of what we are trying to achieve here.
That is why I originally proposed to the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights that the legal basis should be changed, and that a statute for assistants should instead be prepared, which would have formed an annex to the Statute for Members of the European Parliament and which would have taken as its legal basis the provisions of Article 190 of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
For tactical reasons, the Legal Affairs Committee rejected this proposal so as keep the Council's decision making on the Statute for Members of the European Parliament and on the statute for assistants separate from each other.
However, this will mean that provisions that are supposed to be the subject of contracts between assistants, Members and of course Parliament's administration will then have to be incorporated in the statute itself, or to be precise in the Commission proposal itself.
This is what I proposed in a second report to the Legal Affairs Committee.
The only legally watertight alternative which might also be possible would be to dispense with a statute for assistants altogether and arrange instead for the Quaestors or the Bureau to decide in what circumstances a secretarial allowance could still be granted, and also to include issues such as social security obligations and an appropriate level of remuneration in these arrangements.
The Legal Affairs Committee was then faced with a very close vote.
My proposal initially attracted support, but the Commission draft ultimately won the day, so that the report which I am presenting on behalf of the Legal Committee contains various contradictions and I as rapporteur cannot support what was agreed in committee.
For this reason I have today tabled a number of amendments on behalf of my group which reflect the draft report which I originally presented to the Legal Affairs Committee, and I urge the House to adopt these.
I fear that if we were to adopt the Commission proposal in the form presented to us, it would not be acceptable to the Council of Ministers, in view of the Council's existing reservations in the light of the judgment of the European Court of Justice which I have quoted, and because of the second report of the Court of Auditors.
We would therefore be reaching a sort of token decision along these lines: Parliament wants a statute for assistants but is adopting an unrealistic text in the knowledge that the Council will ultimately reject it.
This would not help anyone, neither the assistants themselves nor the Members of Parliament.
For this simple reason I would urge the House to adopt the original draft report presented to the Legal Affairs Committee and not the Commission proposal.
If this fails and there is not a majority in favour of my proposal tomorrow, I will feel obliged, in the interests of achieving a worthwhile outcome, to request referral back to the Legal Affairs Committee, or, if there is absolutely no other way, to reject this version of the report, because I personally neither want nor feel able to take responsibility for something that I am convinced is wrong, and is to all intents and purposes a token gesture that cannot possibly solve the problems we face in this area.
