Madam President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, for us the Agenda is a package.
At the outset, I will say quite deliberately that in the end, it is the results which will count and not only whether we keep to the timetable.
For me, the Commission's proposals on agriculture go too far.
I think that the votes in the Committee on Agriculture and Rural Development have made it clear that there will be no majority in this House in favour of the Commission proposals, as they currently stand.
After all, if we look at America, we find that two years after the farm bill came into force, discussions on parts of it have already been reopened.
Let us not make the strategic mistake of already wanting, as it were, to negotiate away some of the negotiating points which we need for the forthcoming WTO round.
I tell you quite clearly, Commissioner Fischler, that anyone who works in this way has never worked with cattle.
Mr President-in-Office, perhaps we should issue a joint statement to the German and European public, saying: we do not have any problem, in terms of both sides making the necessary adjustments, with fully integrating the agricultural economies of the applicant countries by 2004, provided that the basic freedoms of the internal market - free movement of people, capital, services and goods - are established at the same time.
There could then at long last be a fair debate in this House about the other difficulties and stumbling-blocks connected with the agricultural policy.
On the financial side, I should like to say that obviously the issue of fair contributions and a balanced budget in terms of both income and expenditure forms part of the Agenda debate.
The question of cofinancing also belongs in this negotiating package.
As you know, Parliament will be giving its definitive opinion on this in February.
I must of course also confess, Mr President-in-Office, that the reason why the question of cofinancing is so controversial with German farmers and the subject of such contentious debate is that they might see themselves being faced with considerable problems - in view of the transposition of the accompanying measures and the reluctance of several Länder to cofinance them - if we were to choose this approach.
As you know, even Lower Saxony was not exactly at the top of the list for transposing the accompanying measures in Germany.
These days, of course, everyone has their experts.
Commissioner Fischler, I should like to say very clearly that the experts recently drafted in by the Commission, whom you specifically referred to as testifying for the Commission proposals, produced reports which are based on very foolhardy theories.
This is because if you are going to say that price reductions will benefit consumers, that unions and employers will take account of these price reductions and that this will affect prices accordingly, then the price of pigmeat in recent months ought to have been substantially lower.
When, during this presidency, we are debating and arguing about employment policy, we should not forget that these experts are assuming that there will be a substantial decline in the number of those employed in agriculture, if these proposals go through as they stand.
That is another reason why they need to be fundamentally amended.
