Mr President, standing in for my colleague who is in fact the Commissioner responsible and who regrets not being able to be present at the debate, let me thank Mr Needle for his very good report.
It has become clear from the discussion where we must start with our work.
If there is still confusion even in this House about what the priority should be in European health activities, then of course we must first be clear in our own minds what we can do to combat existing weaknesses in the EU health system.
In my view, there is a great deal we can do.
Of course it is not a question of setting up a new administration, that is to say to add a new, European health administration to the various administrations that already exist at national and also regional level.
Here I can reassure Mrs Schleicher that that is not our intention.
But I must say that in our view the idea put forward by some Members that we need simply to increase the funds and then spend the resources accordingly, and then we would manage to tackle the problem properly, is not the right method either.
In the area of health we cannot hope to create a greater effect simply by allocating more resources; instead we must realise that this system is no longer working in the way it really should.
It is not efficient enough.
That is why the Commission considers it very important that we begin by collecting and collating the information in order, as Mr Virgin just said, to establish a kind of benchmarking for the various systems, so as to identify where there are better options that can perhaps be recommended to others.
Even the collection of information on, for example, the use of medicinal products, would do a great deal towards reducing costs and making treatment more efficient, because at present the experience gained in particular clinics or by practising doctors is simply not being collected or made available on a Europe-wide basis.
That is in itself a disadvantage for research, but it is an even greater disadvantage in practice, because patients could be cared for much better if general findings were available that could then be tailored to the individual patient.
So there is a great deal to do here.
Of course the Member States can also do it on their own behalf, but collating the findings would indeed produce a European added value.
In any case, there is no need to discuss that further.
The Treaty of Amsterdam has now passed that task on to the European Union and Mrs Schleicher does indeed appreciate that competition between systems, for instance the freedom to offer medical services in the single market, can be useful; I also find the European Court of Justice rulings in this area very positive.
There is something else we should not overlook, and where we also have experience, especially from the USA which puts far more emphasis on the involvement of the patient in question or the potential patient; this means the patient is involved in the shaping of the health system.
Where that happens, for example where drugs are freely obtainable, namely what are known as OTC or over the counter products, we find a markedly higher health awareness on the part of the individual.
That means that the more you involve the public in the decision making and the more they themselves are asked to make the decisions, the surer you can be that they will become more health conscious.
For that is certainly one of the problems.
I have been looking at the judgments pronounced in America against the cigarette industry, as you probably all have too.
It is not fitting for us to criticise this on legal grounds, but if someone comes along and institutes proceedings claiming that he was not adequately informed about the risks of smoking, then we can only wonder whether than person has been living in our society at all.
The risks have constantly been indicated for the past twenty years, not just on the packets but all around us, and here we should not do something that would be very dangerous, namely release individuals from their responsibility for their own, highly personal health and in a sense look after them, care for them and prescribe to them exactly what they must do, from the cradle to the grave.
That would certainly shorten rather than extend their lifespan.
So what we want to achieve is the active involvement of the public, and especially of those who are sick, of the patients.
I therefore very much agree with what Mr Pradier said, namely that we should cooperate even more closely than before with patients' associations, whether they centre on a particular disease or simply represent particular patients' interests.
That is in fact the point of departure we have chosen here and I am very glad all this has been properly understood.
Of course I will report back to my colleague, who is responsible for this area, and also tell him what you said about setting up a new directorate-general.
If Parliament in its wisdom follows this up and grants us the corresponding posts, we will be able to do all these things.
Similarly we agree with Mr Virgin's comment that it makes no sense whatsoever to spend money on preventive health care, especially on information about the risks of smoking, while at the same time subsidising tobacco crops.
Here we agree with his assessment of the situation.
Unfortunately, at its last vote on the subject Parliament approved these subsidies by a majority.
Since, thank God, we live in a democracy, this time it is for Parliament to cry mea culpa .
