Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Members of the Commission, a war is going on in Kosovo and between NATO and Yugoslavia.
Whatever our view of its legality, it is a fact.
War is not normally the time for taking a nuanced view, for heightened sensibilities, for a sensible mixture of reason and emotion.
Yet that is what we must do today, for even in times of war we must not only think of peace but also work to achieve it.
In that sense I welcome what you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, said here, because you have expressed that same feeling.
Military action became necessary.
I am not happy about it, many of us are not happy about it, but we would be even less happy if we had to watch the massacres continue without trying to put a stop to them.
Many of us would have preferred to see this action take place under the umbrella of the United Nations.
But unfortunately the attitude of Russia and China prevented that.
Yet I want to state clearly on behalf of my group: we still believe that on principle such actions must be carried out by the United Nations and we must do all we can to reform the United Nations in such a way as to make that possible in future.
But that also means that as you said, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, sovereignty must give way to the principle of respect for human rights.
We know that sovereignty has been an important objective over the course of history.
But our experience in Europe has shown us that there are higher values than total and absolute respect for national sovereignty.
We must get that message across.
Applause
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, the military action has clear humanitarian objectives and we very strongly urge you to adhere to those objectives.
It is not a people that we want to defeat, it is the regime, it is Milosevic and his bands of soldiers, as Mr Hänsch called them.
Unfortunately - and that is an inevitable consequence - at the moment the situation is that the Serbs have closed ranks even more.
Even the opposition, the few who were opposed, and above all the intellectual opposition and the critics in Serbia, do not understand NATO's action and are actually rallying round Milosevic.
We must do all in our power to make it clear that we are differentiating between a regime that has brought disaster upon its own people, and a people we want to have in Europe like all the other peoples of this continent and all the other peoples of the Balkans.
We must do our utmost to ensure that there are as few civilian victims as possible in the wake of the military actions.
That has to be our aim, and not just for reasons of humanity but precisely in order to differentiate between the regime and the people.
Much has already been done for the refugees.
Perhaps some of it was done rather too late, but there is no sense in lamenting that now.
We will have to do all we can to help the refugees and to support the great, indeed the immense willingness of the people of Europe and of many non-governmental organisations to provide aid.
We may say that people today are hard-hearted, but Kosovo and the reaction of the people in Europe show that many also have a very soft, humanitarian heart, and we have to turn that to good use.
I am especially grateful to Mrs Bonino for her very vigorous support here.
Let me say quite plainly that first and foremost we should provide assistance in situ .
We must not grant Milosevic the great victory of finally emptying Kosovo of all Albanians and preventing the Albanian inhabitants who are scattered throughout Europe from returning home again.
We must prevent him from achieving that aim, but above all we must also help the neighbouring countries who are doing outstanding work in a situation that is not easy, for the situation is not easy for Albania, or for Macedonia or for Rome.
We must help them to pursue a humanitarian refugee policy.
One final point, Mr President-in-Office of the Council: you clearly pointed the way into the future, whether in the form of a Balkan conference or whatever we call it.
We must begin with a kind of Marshall Plan or stability pact.
That costs money.
But the war and the crises and unrest cost more money and above all they also cost many human lives.
You also said that we must contrast the 21st century with the 19th century.
I agree with you.
The 19th century was a century in which not only did the Balkan peoples come to grief over their nationalism, it was a century when the European powers exploited the Balkan peoples in order to assert their own interests.
Now it is not a question of playing off one Balkan country, i.e. the people of one country, against another one.
What we must do is bring the people closer together, laboriously bring them together and also show them that it is possible to coexist, as we do in western Europe despite the wars we have had.
Even if many people say that the Kosovar Albanians will never be able to coexist with the Serbs - they must coexist, they must coexist on the same continent, in the same region, and it is up to Europe to learn from its own mistakes in the past, to make up for its own past mistakes and lead the people of the Balkans into a peaceful, a non-nationalistic Europe.
Applause
