Mr President, let me attempt to answer these questions.
What Mr Stenmarck asked illustrates the confusion besetting this debate.
The Commission has not yet decided what measures it will take.
Not, Mr Ferber, because I am frightened of the Left - or indeed of anyone else.
I am not even in fear of Mr Stoiber, unlike some CSU members seeking re-election to this House.
I do not aspire to have my name on the CSU list, and this spares me the need to draw attention to myself with fiery rhetoric.
Nobody frightens me - not even you, Mr Ferber.
Mr Simpson seems to hold a very simplistic view of the relations linking Parliament, the Commission and the Council.
He has got things the wrong way round if he thinks that the Commission should always make proposals which match Parliament's vision.
The procedure is that the Commission proposes, then Parliament and the Council deliver their positions.
The Commission of course takes on board the results of this democratic process.
Our own right to propose would be totally undermined, however, if I or any of my Commission colleagues were systematically to advocate what Parliament wanted - particularly since you will have noticed that the parliamentary position is not clear at this stage.
And how could it be?
The Commission has yet to make a proposal.
Once it has done so, we can see what Parliament has to say.
Let me repeat, however, for the sake of clarity: my personal intention - and I can speak only on my behalf at this juncture - is to defend the universal service.
So you need have no worries, provided my colleagues in the Commission follow my lead.
What I cannot do is come forward with a proposal which would rule out extending the liberalisation process to the postal sector; nor can I advocate delay, since our postal services would simply end up being overtaken by developments elsewhere.
This is a point I have endeavoured to drive home in previous debates; once you have grasped it, you will understand that I am not 'out to get' those employed in the postal sector.
We can already see competition developing between those postal service providers who operate in a liberalised environment - Deutsche Post AG, for example - and the others who do not.
The former enjoy a natural advantage born of their market fitness.
They will be better placed legally as well, free as they are to buy up or merge with other companies; that door is closed to the monopolies.
Anyone who fails to comprehend that will truly be letting down postal employees - and Mr Wijsenbeek's consumers - alike.
This is not about ideology.
Very well, I am a Liberal and have been all my life.
Occasionally one wonders if one's colleagues on the Liberal benches have the same degree of common sense; be that as it may, I have certainly never abandoned my Liberal convictions.
It is not ideology which spurs me on - I see nothing Liberal in ideological positions; my aim is to do the job entrusted to me.
If you are not happy with the way I perform, Mr Simpson, you have all the opportunity in the world to kick me out, along with my colleagues.
It is fine by us; that is life on the democratic stage.
You can do it tomorrow if you like; the opportunity is there if you so decide.
I shall not be offended; Parliament will simply be doing its job.
And if you refrain because you believe that the Commission has not done so badly, after all - then many thanks in advance.
