Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as Mr Bangemann himself said, this is by no means the first time that we have sat in this House at midnight discussing the question of European postal services.
And today's debate will doubtless not be the last - although a better slot next time round would be nice.
We as a parliament clearly cannot overemphasise our position on liberalising postal services.
No one in the European Parliament would dispute the need for a functioning single market in the postal sector; we shall therefore need to expand on the existing market liberalisation directive within a reasonable time frame.
The differences of view among ourselves and with the Commission begin over when to take action and how much liberalising should be carried out.
At the time of the majority decision on the current directive, that was certainly the case.
So let us take a close look at the timetable set for the new version of the directive.
It was adopted in 1997 and was due for transposition in the Member States by the end of 1998, although quite a number of countries have yet to take the necessary steps.
The directive also called upon the Commission to submit fresh proposals for further liberalisation by the end of 1998.
It would, however, be rather strange to start revising the directive before the consequences of the original have been properly assessed.
I appreciate that Parliament endorsed this schedule at the end of 1997, but what is the point of amending a directive that has not yet even been put into effect in all the Member States?
The Commission first needs to submit a report detailing the state of play on transposition and - most importantly - comparing the measures put in place in individual countries.
It will certainly emerge that there are some considerable discrepancies.
Once the facts are established, action can be taken.
If the directive is to be amended, two sets of guarantees will be required.
We must be able to rely on an efficient universal service, with a solid financial base.
And the postal sector must continue to offer jobs with proper social security coverage.
You cannot reasonably make comparisons with the telecommunications sector, Mr Bangemann.
As Mr Simpson said, technology pretty much holds sway there, whereas the workforce - the human factor - is far more significant in the postal services.
Only a universal service is capable of ensuring that each and every European citizen, however remote his or her place of residence, has access to postal facilities.
Only then can we speak of 'communication'.
Our postal services fulfil a social remit; it is not just a matter of providing a commercial service.
This remit is to offer the people of Europe an affordable and readily usable means of communicating.
It is therefore not enough to equip the Greek islands and more isolated villages in the Bavarian forests with computer terminals.
These regions need real letter boxes, which will be emptied daily.
A universal service of this kind needs a solid financial foundation - which it will be denied if the reserved area is broken up, opening the way for commercial suppliers to pick the cherries out of the cake.
Instead, what is required is a system whereby postal undertakings offer a range of services, including non-profitable ones.
The universal service and reserved area dimension can then benefit from cross-funding.
Nor should we forget the 1.5 million people employed in the European postal sector, for whom we bear a social responsibility.
It is common knowledge that the process of postal liberalisation to date has been painful for the workforce, accompanied as it was by redundancies and switches to often socially insecure conditions of employment.
I doubt that any political group would argue with me when I say that this parliament will not stand idly by while the postal service suppliers turn their workplaces little by little into production lines.
We will not countenance quick profits for the companies at the expense of employees and quality.
We demand guarantees that a comprehensive and high-quality universal postal service, offering proper job security, will survive.
