Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, on behalf of my group I certainly support the statements by both the President-in-Office of the Council and the Commissioner.
I believe I may say without any arrogance but with a certain pride that it was my group that kept pointing out that we need both: the offer of talks and the threat of force.
Some people, here in this House too, wanted us to use force sooner; but that would have been wrong.
As is becoming clear, there is still a possibility of achieving what is - I hope - our common aim through talks and mediation.
I do not exclude the possibility of failure, as at any conference, which would then make it all the more necessary to use force.
But the opportunity that now exists really must be used to the full.
The President-in-Office of the Council named names.
I am glad that a European representative is playing a prominent role.
And I take a personal pride here, for before becoming ambassador in Belgrade Wolfgang Petritsch was a colleague of mine and he really is doing a splendid job here, which is much appreciated.
But I am concerned not with personalities but with the matter itself.
And that is the importance of having a European Union representative playing the most prominent part here.
Secondly, I consider it just as important that not only the Americans but the Russians too are involved.
People often disregard the fact that we also need to remind Russia and the Russian Government of their responsibility for this continent.
Given that it does have that responsibility, Russia must play its part in finding the solution, to ensure that it is a lasting solution.
On behalf of my group let me also repeat that we are against borders being forcibly redrawn in today's Europe.
If any changes are to be made, they can only be made on the basis of a final consensus, not by force, not unilaterally.
If necessary, troops will have to be deployed, as the Commissioner said, to ensure longer-term security.
I have no illusions about a solution being found overnight and I would ask everyone in this House to remember that it is not just Kosovo that is under threat now, but that the entire region will be under threat unless we find a sensible solution: FYROM, and Albania too.
It is most important for the European Union to urge Albania in particular to listen to the voice of reason and the voice of consensus.
It is important to have Albania as a whole on our side, not a divided and divisive Albania, if we are to achieve a common solution here.
In that sense I fully endorse the statements by the President-in-Office and the Commissioner.
