Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to pick up where Commissioner Bonino left off.
If we look at the debate - and in this respect it resembles all the other debates we have heard in recent weeks - we can see that there are a lot of good individual arguments that we have all thought of from time to time.
But if we try to find an alternative way of looking at things we find that we have not heard an alternative. a political solution has been called for.
Yes, but a political solution is not an end in itself.
The question should be: what must a political solution achieve? a political solution must achieve an end to violence.
Applause
a political solution must bring about the return of those who have been displaced and it must in particular ensure that we do not have another ten years of nationalist madness in the Balkans with hundreds of thousands of more deaths.
Applause
a political solution is not an end in itself, so we must talk about the substance of our policy.
The only thing I can add there is to offer Mr Milosevic a peace corps.
He would like that.
He would immediately support that, particularly now.
And why?
Because then he would have what he wanted.
Mr Milosevic is not the man to be influenced by a peace corps.
I am very strongly in favour of a peace corps, I am very much in favour of a Europe in which violence has no place.
But how are we to respond to someone who has used the most merciless violence not just once, not twice, not three times, but for ten years?
Applause
In my view this is not just a moral issue.
It is a question of European security and of the future of Europe.
I would accept the criticism if we had acted rashly in resorting to force, but there are at least 200 000 people lying in mass graves because we acted too late.
Think of Bosnia!
Are our memories so short?
Mr Karadzic was in Geneva and signed treaties that just an hour later were no longer valid in Bosnia.
This did not happen once, or ten times, it happened umpteen times.
What must it take?
This is a question we must ask ourselves.
Of course we all ask ourselves this question constantly - I can at least say this for the German Government, but surely all the governments involved feel the same - when it is our responsibility.
But some statements I have heard have confused cause and effect.
Applause
We must not confuse cause and effect here!
The cause is Milosevic's policy.
He is not a nationalist but a cynic.
His aim is to obtain power.
This is why he is using the aggressive tactics of Serb nationalism.
He has unleashed the tiger and is trying to ride it, and if we allow him to continue he will not only bring disaster to an entire region of Europe, but he will also cost more innocent lives.
The brutal expulsion and exodus we are now witnessing are on a scale that we would not have thought possible.
Emma Bonino rightly said that these are human bombs, in other words the expulsion is being used doubly cynically as brutal tactics against neighbouring countries.
Europe cannot accept this. a political solution that involved accepting this would be completely wrong.
It would be the opposite of what we want.
Applause
We are trying to implement a political solution that uses force on the basis of respect for human rights, common security and the return of all refugees, on the basis of the international community.
This is the type of political solution we are trying to achieve.
But this presupposes firstly that Belgrade is left in no doubt about the resolve of the international community, and secondly that it understands that a military solution holds no prospects for Serbia and also none for Milosevic personally.
I consider it imperative that we achieve a political solution and a cease-fire on this basis.
I consider it to be not only necessary but crucial that we develop proposals that can be discussed or considered and that have a clear content that can be implemented.
On the other hand, it must be clear that cause and effect cannot be confused, and I would like to emphasise this.
Milosevic is responsible for this war, which I hope will be the last round of violence.
If we do not put a halt to his actions Montenegro will follow, then Sandjak will follow, then Vojvodina and then sooner or later we will have the same war again in a new round, this time in Macedonia.
I have no doubts on this score.
Therefore, of all the good arguments I have heard, the only possible alternative is a political solution that renounces the use of force, respects human rights and ensures the return of refugees.
Belgrade must take this on board.
Milosevic must take this step.
Applause
