Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is one thing to look back, and that is surely sensible, but it is another thing to look forward quickly.
Let us not try and kid ourselves.
Even if UN troops move in at the weekend, perhaps without the co-operation of the Indonesian army and the national authorities, we will not be able to bring about peace at the drop of a hat.
For the marauding gangs, which are still roaming through East Timor and the army, which still has a presence there, cannot be kept in check by a six or eight thousand strong UN force.
The East Timorese who have fled, and who are now in West Timor, must be able to return home.
They must be protected in West Timor where they are now staying.
Therefore, we must give a clear signal to those parties who have responsibility in Indonesia.
I am no longer sure whether the government still has responsibility and control.
Perhaps this now rests with the army.
We must say to all those parties who have responsibility: if Indonesia' s policy does not change, and quickly, then we, and I am addressing the Council and the Commission here, will have to seriously threaten them with all the economic means at our disposal and force those who have the power in Indonesia to co-operate.
Otherwise, what we will see is that although our troops are stationed there, people will continue to be murdered and driven out.
Therefore, we have to send out a clear signal.
Indonesia still has the opportunity to maintain good relations with us over the coming years.
But if it does not change its policy, then it will no longer have partners in Europe for as long as those responsible for the current situation are still in power, whether they be in the army, the parliament or the government.
Therefore, we are also appealing to the Council, along with the Member States, to send clear signals to those responsible in Indonesia in the next few days.
They must co-operate, otherwise a UN peacekeeping force will be defenceless.
We need strong action on the part of Europe, the Council, the Commission and Parliament.
