Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I too want to speak on the subject of Kosovo.
Let me say first of all that I and my group can also congratulate you warmly on your statement.
I believe that the subjects you addressed, and especially the foreign policy aspects, were precisely those points and aspects we rightly expect and hope a German Presidency to address.
You said little in concrete terms about Kosovo.
I would like to prompt you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to perhaps make a few more comments to clarify your position, especially after what Mrs Pack, whom I hold in very high esteem, has just said, because in this case I do not agree with the substance of it.
I believe that we must adhere to the position that we can only have a settlement in Kosovo that is a peaceful settlement and that is in the end reached through consensus - however difficult that may be.
We will have to be prepared for it to take years - it was a serious mistake to believe it could be achieved in Bosnia in just a few months.
We will have to tell the Serbs that their aggression cannot be tolerated but also tell the KLA that their actions, which are indeed also directed against the Albanians and against Mr Rugova, cannot be accepted.
We have applauded Mr Rugova here in this Chamber but on the other hand - and this is a contradiction - we verbally support the actions of the KLA.
That can neither be tolerated nor accepted and the presidency must make its position clear.
Secondly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you have stated quite unequivocally in many interviews that you do not regard organisations such as the OSCE as merely incidental, as something that can be pushed aside.
We are all aware of the weaknesses of the OSCE, but after all what we must do is strengthen this organisation rather than abandon it.
So I do not believe the OSCE mission should be withdrawn.
I do believe, however, that it needs protecting and that we must do our utmost to strengthen the troops who are in the region, especially in Macedonia, in FYROM, which will be a means of protecting the OSCE.
It would be a disaster if the OSCE mission out there fails partly because it is not being given adequate military protection.
Kosovo can serve as an example of cooperation between the EU, NATO and the OSCE with a view to finding a peaceful solution.
There is a third point where I also definitely support you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
You spoke of the dangerous trend away from multilateralism towards unilateralism.
I admit, as I once said about Kosovo too, that there can be exceptional situations where a different decision needs to be taken.
But I regard the trend in some quarters in America of turning the exception into the rule and the rule into the exception as very dangerous indeed.
A final word in connection with what you said about Russia.
One great task for the German Presidency would be to bring Russia back into partnership with the EU, as a partner willing and able to cooperate, and also to involve it more closely in NATO again, even after the current crisis.
We need Russia as a partner, I agree with you there.
But we cannot rely on that and expose ourselves to the vicissitudes of Russian decisions in individual cases.
However, one important aim of the presidency of the Council must be to have Russia as a partner for a new peaceful order in Europe and beyond.
