Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to what Chancellor Schröder has already said today as President-in-Office of the European Council, I would like to stress that in the current serious crisis in and around Kosovo the European Union has demonstrated a high level of solidarity and ability to act.
It has shown solidarity in terms of its political evaluation of what is happening there - which, as you all know, has not always been the case - and an ability to act in relation to the aid that has to be provided for the people concerned, to the stabilisation measures that must be taken for the countries in the region and to consolidating the principle of the primacy of politics over war.
After all, when weapons speak we must not simply put politics to one side; instead we must always continue to pursue the road of politics.
We must be clear that political initiatives can contribute to putting an end to the use of arms.
Mrs Bonino and I were in Tirana and in Skopje exactly two weeks ago.
Mrs Bonino will no doubt be reporting on that later.
I just want to say that for both of us this journey was something totally outside the normal political routine.
I for my part - and I am quite sure this goes for Mrs Bonino too - was shaken to the core by what I witnessed there, and I have seen many such things in the past - the victims of torture in South Africa, the victims of famine in Somalia, the victims of expulsion in Africa - but I have never seen such a massive, such a brutal, such a systematic violation of human rights as there, and this is happening in the middle of Europe, on our doorstep!
So I believe it is essential that we adhere to the aim of putting a stop to this inhuman action.
It can no longer be tolerated in Europe at the end of this century!
Applause
At the same time, we have to exercise our political imagination to seek a solution to the problem.
The German Presidency is putting all its energy into endeavouring to do so at this time.
I am very happy to be able to tell you that broad international agreement is emerging on a process that looks something like this: the Yugoslav Government will be offered a 24-hour ceasefire as soon as it begins to withdraw its troops and paramilitary units.
That ceasefire will be extended if this withdrawal continues; and once the withdrawal is complete and the other conditions have been met, we can begin to implement a peace settlement, one that is still on the basis of what was negotiated in Rambouillet.
But that only answers the immediate question of what we will do when the shooting stops.
The longer-term question is this: how can we develop a policy that guarantees stability and peace for the entire region in the long term?
Here we have put forward for discussion the idea of a stability pact for the entire region.
This must certainly be looked at as a medium and long-term process, at the end of which we do not envisage a new order in the sense of re-drawing borders or even persuading people to leave their home; at the end of it we want to see a political strategy that enables the peoples of the region to cooperate and to co-exist peacefully.
In the present situation it is crucial that the European Union and the international community leave no doubt about their resolve.
That is why we must adhere to the conditions we set for ending the military action.
These conditions are such that Milosevic can quite easily fulfil them.
It is up to him and him alone to ensure that his country is not destroyed even further and that the lives of the people of his country are not put at risk.
Let me also state again quite firmly: the international community is not at war with Serbia or with the Serbian people.
It is not a question of gaining territory, ruling over people, obtaining spheres of influence.
Nor is it a question of raw materials or oil or anything of the kind; it is a matter of fundamental human rights and nothing else!
It is a matter of ensuring that the declaration of human rights is not a hollow phrase in Europe but that ...
Heckling
There is no point in you interrupting because I do not understand you.
I do not understand your language.
There is no point.
I do not understand it!
It is a matter of making it clear that we are also prepared to make sacrifices for the sake of our common convictions and to most resolutely oppose the activities of those who are trying by criminal means to destroy all the progress we have achieved in European civilisation!
Applause
