Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting two reports here today.
The first is about the Convention on third-country nationals, and the second is about the harmonisation of visa law within the European Union.
I would like to start with the Convention on third-country nationals, which is certainly the more complex legislative project.
I believe that within a functioning European Union internal market we need to have close cooperation on immigration and of course on the rights of third-country nationals who are long-term residents.
It makes no sense using Schengen and other provisions to abolish borders if at the same time there are large numbers of third-country nationals living here whose freedom of movement within the internal market is very limited, and if there are in any case different immigration regulations in the Member States.
This can lead to cases where some Member States admit immigrants who then of course find their way onto the internal labour market as a whole, ultimately contributing to the impact - I do not want to say burden - on other Member States.
That is why I very warmly welcome the fact that the European Commission has brought forward a proposal for a Convention on third-country nationals.
I think that this in itself is a step forward.
Unfortunately, the history of Parliament's consultation on the Convention on third-country nationals is not a happy one.
You will recall that we concluded our discussion of this Convention in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs last summer, and that the final debate on it was to take place in the plenary in September.
At that point, the Socialist Group requested that the Convention on third-country nationals be referred back to the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, and I supported this.
The reason was quite simple: at that time a series of highly controversial changes had been made in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs and submitted to the plenary.
These included an almost unlimited extension of the right to reunification to all members of the immediate family, including grandparents.
The existence of a partner relationship was to be adequate justification for family reunification.
Opportunities for seasonal workers to repeatedly enter into rolling contracts were extended.
The mere offer of a job was to be sufficient to justify immigration rights.
Expulsion for serious criminal offences was to be abolished.
All this would have led to overloaded labour markets and social systems in the Member States of the European Union.
Apparently the very people who supported the amendments got cold feet and then quite sensibly requested referral back to committee.
At that point I attempted, as rapporteur, to find compromise solutions.
I believe that the report before us today is a genuine compromise and that an attempt has been made to reconcile the various points of view within the committee.
On family reunification, we have gone no further than the Commission proposal.
Regarding seasonal workers, we have given the principle of subsidiarity priority in the individual Member States.
We have also been guided by the principle of subsidiarity in the case of making jobs available in Member States.
At the same time, and I always thought this was correct, we have quite simply deleted Chapter 8 from the Convention entirely.
This chapter refers to the rights of third-country nationals who are long-term residents of the European Union.
We have done this because we believe that, as its name implies, the Convention should deal with immigration and not the rights of third-country nationals who are long-term residents.
However, we are at the same time calling on the Commission to submit a new proposal to Parliament dealing with the rights of third-country nationals who are long-term residents of the European Union in a separate draft, because that of course also needs to be legislated for.
Furthermore, we in the committee have gathered from preliminary discussions with Commission officials that in view of Parliament's opinion on the third-country nationals convention and in view of the Council's reaction to it at first reading, the Commission in any case intends formally to withdraw this draft Convention and rework it, with a view to reviving it as a proposal for a directive once the Treaty of Amsterdam has entered into force.
I welcome this and I am sure that it will also be welcomed by the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs.
I believe that a revised Commission proposal would provide a more appropriate basis for discussion than has been the case up to now.
I would like to stress that I intend to reject the amendments tabled by the ARE Group, the GUE Group and the Liberal Group, purely and simply because these amendments effectively resuscitate ideas from the first consultation in September, which I rejected for the reasons I have already stated and which I have no alternative but to reject again now.
Let me make myself very clear: if these groups' amendments were to be adopted, I would be forced, after the votes had been taken, to ask the House to reject my own report.
That is why I am asking you to reject these amendments.
Now for the second report, on what is known as the visa directive.
This too has a rather unfortunate history.
You will recall that the European Parliament gave its opinion on this directive years ago, and the Council subsequently reached a decision on it.
We did not agree with the text adopted by the Council, for the very simple reason that although the Commission had submitted a mandatory proposal for a visa list which we in Parliament supported, the Council subsequently adopted a visa list which was effectively not mandatory at all, as each Member State was allowed to introduce additional visa requirements for other states, and was simply required to notify the Commission of this.
The result of this was that the European Parliament brought an action concerning the directive before the European Court of Justice, and ultimately won, because we had not been adequately consulted.
The debate in recent months, since this judgment was pronounced, has essentially revolved around procedural aspects, namely what we are actually being consulted on - the amended Council Regulation annulled by the European Court of Justice or the original Commission proposal?
We subsequently reached a compromise by taking the Commission proposal as the basis for our consultation, but by also giving an opinion in our new report on the proposals mentioned in the Council decision.
I would like to draw attention to a key political problem on which my position as rapporteur has always coincided with the majority view in Parliament in previous debates.
This is the question of Bulgaria and Romania's inclusion in the list of states required to obtain a visa.
In my opinion, Bulgaria and Romania should be deleted from the list, for two reasons: firstly because discussions with the relevant Commission officials, and in particular with Directorate-General Ia, have shown that Romania and Bulgaria have already met some of the conditions imposed on them for the removal of the visa requirement.
They have not all been met, but a great many have.
Secondly, I believe that it is time for the European Parliament to set an example.
You know that in the negotiations on eastward enlargement and in the run-up to these, some states felt that they had done well, but there were also other Central and Eastern European countries which felt that they had come off badly.
I believe that it would be good if Parliament set an example by lifting the visa requirement for Bulgarians and Romanians.
I do not intend to use all my speaking time.
Thank you very much for your kind attention.
That completes my comments on the two reports which I am presenting to Parliament here today.
