Mr President, Commissioners, Mr President-in-Office, we have been discussing and arguing about Agenda 2000 for a long time.
We can now see the results of this.
In my view the winners are: the Member States in the Cohesion Fund, in particular the three which we believe should in fact no longer have been eligible; the Objective 1 regions that receive an even greater amount of funds than has so far been the case in the urban areas covered by the new Objective 2, which still even receive funds from the Community initiative URBAN; and the applicant countries which I only hope will not become a market economy, as Mr Schröder said, but a social market economy.
Applause
The losers are definitely the rural areas and especially the regions bordering with third countries.
When I look at the Commissioners sitting there at the front, it is clear to me why the regions bordering with third countries were not particularly taken into account.
They do not come from these areas.
Heckling
Three kilometres from the border regions, I have been told!
Commissioner, the unemployment criterion, which we argued about for a long time, still accounts for 50 %.
Soft criteria are only 50 %.
The problem with this is that the number of unemployed might not be very high, but the infrastructure and the number of skilled jobs might not be adequate either, and young people who are well qualified then move away from the area or commute.
This is not everything.
Capping agricultural expenditure - Mr Fischler referred to this himself today - is obviously an important issue that has to be viewed as negative.
This will naturally result in even less money being made available in rural areas in the future, particularly in the areas where it is urgently needed.
Commissioner, I have no wish to conceal how positive it is that we now have a safety net in the former Objective 5b regions, as well time-limits for transitional periods - it was not certain we would have them - and that the Community initiatives, Interreg and Leader, are better provided for than before.
We must be fair and admit this.
I think that we will also benefit from EQUAL.
This is the last speech I will be making in the European Parliament.
Thank you for your constructive cooperation.
I should also like to sincerely thank those I have worked with and particularly the interpreters, who have no doubt had difficulty understanding my Bavarian dialect on occasion!
Applause
