Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we must not keep on protesting that things are not really all that bad, as is always the case in short-time crisis management.
Instead, we need to develop strategies, at the core of which must be, not moralistic advice, but well-understood self-interest.
The very real danger of a deflationary process which can no longer be controlled is moving ever closer.
Assurances that there is really no problem ring ever more hollow.
We must realise that long-term stabilisation of the global financial architecture is impossible without the stabilisation of the economy in global terms, and that this will not come about without the stabilisation of the global social order.
In other words, the question is not: how do we arrive at an alternative global economic and social order?
This would be illusory.
Instead, the old Keynesian questions - not his answers - are becoming once again very pressing.
How do we achieve a global payment system that functions well and remains stable in the face of short-term irritations and volatility?
How do we achieve a global monetary policy?
How do we construct an international trade organisation that is in a position to stabilise commodity prices?
How do we achieve aid programmes with low-cost loans and subsidies to assist developing countries?
And now that we are faced with globalisation it is no longer just a question of developing countries but also sectors, projects and industries.
The present discussion is too narrowly focused on the imposition of antidumping and antisubsidising measures, which in effect means denying certain countries the opportunity to develop.
The question must be posed differently: how is it in fact possible to solve the problem of actual demand, which is currently not being met, in terms of the value of money?
As an example, let us take global shipping.
We have a shipping fleet which is completely outdated, environmentally unsound and unsafe, the renovation of which would bring lasting employment and progress in resource efficiency.
So, instead of continually asking the wrong question about the world economy locomotive, we should be asking ourselves about a joint global investment train; as Europeans, we can make a contribution here and we have a responsibility to do so, a responsibility which we are currently not fulfilling.
