Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, for months we have been issuing warnings to the Commission at meetings and in personal conversations.
They were not heeded, and the result is plain to see.
We must recognise that times have changed, because the European Union now has the democratic strength to put its own house in order.
I believe it is good news for the people of Europe that the system is democratic enough to ensure that an administrative apparatus cannot commit misdemeanours with impunity.
But we must also recognise that this problem is not really about particular individuals.
There were many honourable people in the last Commission, and we must not forget that.
We must realise that this is primarily a structural problem; it is about a lack of efficiency within the European institutions.
Unless we change the structures within the Commission, we shall be back in this same situation two years from now, because replacing the individuals at the top is only part of the answer.
For that reason, we need to adopt certain procedures in connection with the installation of the new Commission.
On the one hand, it is surely the case that the European public needs to see the right signals from us before the elections.
On the other hand, there must be enough time to ensure that the procedure for appointing the Commission affords the opportunity for a radical reorganisation of that institution, and a good new President will use that procedure and the support of Parliament to gain the upper hand over the apparatus.
Since the new Commission will want to remain in office for the next five years, we must also take account of our successors in Parliament, who will have to cohabit with and accept the Commission and who will also have to legitimise that same Commission in the future.
I believe a compromise will take clear shape on this basis, and I think the Council presidency will be able to offer us a time-frame within which both requirements can be satisfied, so that we can manage the reorganisation and thereby create a better Europe.
