Mr President, we are seeing on a daily basis that India, the largest democracy in the world, is making considerable progress in strengthening its political, economic and social structures.
As documented in our new external strategy from 1995, we in Europe have a vital interest in fostering close relations based on shared values, fair partnership, economic cooperation with direct effects on jobs, and support for human rights.
In meetings I had over there, including in my capacity as vice-chairman of the European Parliament's SAARC Delegation, I was able to see for myself the quality of the reforms.
It is remarkable how stable India has remained in the midst of Asia's economic crisis thanks to its economic strength and innovative capacity.
The restructuring of the banking system and financial services and the expansion of the South Asia free trade area will be further important developments.
Nonetheless, as Mrs André-Léonard has already stated in her well-balanced report, our dialogue should not deal solely with economic matters.
Respect for human rights is an essential basis for all European Union agreements.
The fight against child labour can only be won if state authorities get actively involved, if a minimum income is guaranteed, if parents do their bit to ensure that their children are not reduced to the status of cheap and willing drudges.
Children must be able to attend school to get the education and training that will give them a future.
Village cooperative societies, micro-loans for women and NGO initiatives such as rugmark need our support.
Companies too must make their contribution by means of voluntary agreements to safeguard social standards.
The democracy so close to our hearts means respecting other religious persuasions as well.
There is no room for totalitarian philosophies.
Establishments in which people practise their religion must be protected against physical violence and threat just as ethnic minorities should be.
The words of Prime Minister Vajpayee need to be acted upon further.
The partnership between the largest state of the SAARC community and the European Union should be of high quality, built up through exchanges of young people, information and of course high tech, networks and a whole range of other experiences, involving political parties and parliaments as well.
Applause
