Mr President, first of all let me congratulate Mr Fourçans on behalf of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs on a highly commendable report.
We are pleased that the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy has adopted some important points from our opinion.
In the context of a single monetary policy under an independent central bank, economic policies in the Member States will have to be more closely coordinated than ever before.
However, the call expressed in Amendment No 19 for the abolition of the stability pact does not reflect the views of our committee.
What we are calling for is a balanced policy, which implies a stable currency and effective budgetary consolidation as well as the need to ensure adequate purchasing power.
Like the Economic Affairs Committee, we are in favour of a productivity-based pay policy.
If pay restraint leads to increases in profits and investments, a word of gratitude is scant reward for the staff who have exercised such restraint.
The Committee on Employment and Social Affairs believes that they should be able to share in profits and capital through voluntary schemes.
As an antidote to unemployment, we also recommend the promotion of business start-ups and the provision of venture capital, especially for small and medium-sized businesses, the development of new services and greater adaptability on the part of companies; at the same time, steps must be taken throughout Europe to safeguard employee participation, to ensure that staff are informed and consulted about structural changes at an early stage, thereby guaranteeing them the opportunity to prepare themselves in good time.
What we ultimately need is an active, forward-looking employment policy, a modern form of vocational training for youngsters in Europe, improved opportunities for retraining, for lifelong learning and for research and development, investments in human capital by companies and Member States and through European programmes.
That will enhance both the social dimension and Europe's competitiveness in the world market.
