Mr President, this issue always seems to create confusion.
Because the electronic world is unfamiliar, we imagine that this is all about some sort of virtual money.
There is no such thing.
What we are really dealing with here is a new way of undertaking and recording credit transactions.
Like the assignat in revolutionary France, which marked the introduction of credit money, electronic money has brought new forms of fraud and new ways for governments to circumvent budgetary restrictions.
We really must find common rules.
It is perhaps important to point out that this must not be taken as a pretext for returning to a type of situation in which private trading houses control the money supply.
In the high middle ages, one of the main instruments that was used to promote economic development throughout Europe and to overcome the problems connected with private money was the introduction of silver coinage, guaranteed by the monarch.
By the same token, I believe there are three demands to be made, and indeed they are made in the report: universality must mean interoperability, redeemability and free use.
Money can be made from the related financial services.
All of this must be organised in the euro framework; it must not be based on the harsh terrain within which the banking and financial services sector still operates.
If that condition is met, important avenues will open up here, and they must be pursued.
But we do need to cast off the Klondike mentality which sees electronic operations as the key to a great financial boom, just as the assignat was expected to be.
The outward token of credit is not a collateral loan.
Merely promising to honour a loan is not honouring the promise, which is something that has to take place in the future.
That is why the whole area of the prudential supervision of issuing companies is actually a key element without which the realm of electronic money cannot develop in an accountable way.
I should also like to remind the House of our urgent need to act in the field of banking supervision too.
