Madam President, if the European Parliament resolves today to speak out against the increasingly frequent and violent infringements of religious freedom, such a resolution will be a token of our great concern.
Freedom of religious observance is a sign of respect, not only for a very profound sense of devotion within many people but also for freedom of expression and association, and hence for a significant part of the corpus of human rights.
We are well aware that the violation of religious freedom can have many different causes.
We also know that these waves of persecution are not always unleashed by governments.
The causes vary from one country to another.
There are power struggles for the control of sources of raw materials and water, as in the Sudan, where an armed majority is let loose on a large minority; hatred, envy and social and political tension can focus on ethnic groups, as in India and Pakistan and now in Indonesia too.
There are intolerant state religions, as in Iran, Afghanistan and other countries; intolerance can also come from adherents of non-established religions.
It would be impossible to list all the countries involved.
The toleration of these persecutions and the forms they take cause us grave concern.
They range from horrific murders, as in the case of the Australian missionary Graham Staines and his two children in India, to arrests, torture and the disappearance of individuals; they extend to trials on trumped-up charges.
Extremism, xenophobia and racism often rear their ugly heads, with governments either impotent or unwilling to curb them.
And yet there are many constitutions, even in those very countries, which enshrine freedom of religious worship, and states have signed international covenants and UN conventions which are supposed to guarantee religious freedom.
But there are also new religious laws with provisions that hover dangerously on the brink of intolerance, and the European Parliament wishes to draw attention to these new risks.
Religious groups themselves, however, must also remain tolerant towards those with different beliefs from their own, and must respect freedom of conscience and of the individual as well as obeying the law of the land.
That goes without saying.
Abuse of religious freedom is symptomatic of the abuse of human rights.
That cannot be said often enough.
Respect for the religious beliefs of minorities is also a sign of properly functioning constitutions rooted in natural law and guaranteeing tolerance and peaceful interaction between the various sections of the population.
We in Europe have bitter historical experience of the effects of intolerance.
We have overcome our intolerance, and we are now trying in this House to help others to do the same.
Political and social tensions have been used time and again in the past as an excuse for savage religious persecution.
On the threshold of the third millennium, and in view of the increasing degree of global interdependence, I believe we must call on governments and on the representatives of the major religions, who also exercise power in their own name, to observe and to act upon the warning signs.
By including democracy and human rights clauses in its treaties with non-Member States, the European Union tries to ensure observance of human rights in the countries with which it cooperates.
The European Parliament will not cease to ask searching questions on these matters.
Suppression of religious freedom - let me emphasise again - is a clear symptom of human rights abuses, the causes of which are rooted in national circumstances that need to be improved, circumstances that not only result from religious strife but are also due in particular to social and political factors.
The Commission supports interdenominational organisations in many countries; in that way, it reaches the people and gets to the roots of the problems, and we want to ensure that the resources we provide for this purpose are not affected by the developments on which we have been focusing today and that these channels remain open to us.
That is the background to the resolution which we have tabled today.
