Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Schmidbauer has hit the nail on the head: the fair payment model in the transport sector has shown us that we need to work on the essential points, which means that we should dispense with cross-subsidisation.
Non-wage labour costs are a completely self-contained issue which needs attention.
We need more competition there and we must see to it that we bring about significant reductions in these costs, and that personal responsibility plays a greater part in the system.
Energy taxation is a completely separate sector.
As far as energy taxation is concerned, it is basically a question of bringing costs down to reasonable levels, so that we become more competitive internationally and create new jobs.
Excessive price increases will simply result in job losses in the energy-intensive sectors, such as steel, and all the others with which we are so familiar.
I must also stress that we cannot disregard the consumer.
At the end of the day, it is consumers who create jobs, by deciding which products to buy and which services to use.
We cannot force them into these decisions by adopting general regulations.
That is also why I think having a ceiling for energy-intensive companies is very important.
It ought to ensure that those businesses which have already brought their technical facilities up to date - and have thus gone a long way towards bringing their energy consumption close to its theoretical minimum level - are given due recognition.
We should reward those which are minimising their energy input.
In this case, higher rates of energy tax will not bring any further significant reductions.
In addition, and quite apart from the environmental argument, doubt has also been cast on the effect which this would have on easing the employment situation.
Only competitive companies are in a position to meet these requirements.
I am therefore in favour of a system which is not out of proportion, but which will actually be able to achieve the declared objectives.
