Mr President, if I may, Commissioner, I will echo your words of farewell to Mr Happart.
The fact is - and this is one of our colleague's attributes - that those who swim against the tide sometimes introduce rather more oxygen into the water.
That is what Mr Happart has done throughout his long and successful career here.
Ladies and gentlemen, where expenditure is concerned, soundness, financial stability and continuity are of great importance, and in recent years - we can almost go back to the beginning of the European Union - they have not always been valued as much as we in the European Parliament, as representatives of the taxpayer, would have liked.
One of the major successes of the Berlin summit was, for the first time in fact, to move this self-evident truth to centre stage.
That is a success.
However, there is another side, a darker side, to almost every success, and in this case the politicians in the Member States are not yet aware of it.
To be cautious about this, I should like to express it as follows: alongside this stability, social justice and solidarity with the weaker members of society must of course also be key features of this policy, not only at European level but also right down to each individual locality.
One of the things which disappoints my group and me personally is that at the present time there is still no instrument - and this could have been decided on in Berlin - through which greater justice and a higher degree of solidarity with smaller and weaker farmers might be achieved.
It is painful to observe that there is currently no instrument to prevent the old principle from applying whereby price increases mean that more is given to the rich, while all that remains for the poor are the crumbs which fall from the table.
In fact, it is not so much pricing as extending the second pillar of the integrated policy in rural areas which can be one of the ways of really providing help, and not least an opportunity of moving into a different sector for those who are evidently exposed to risk as businessmen and farmers.
This opportunity must also be open to their successors.
That is our social democratic creed; that is what we believe to be essential.
Although you also complimented Mr Jové Peres, Commissioner, I do have to say that his proposals are somewhat premature.
Of course, Parliament often points the way ahead and some people - yourself excluded perhaps - then go down that road rather hesitantly.
I hope, however, that the ideas which Mr Jové Peres has presented here today will actually also be translated into practical policy in the future.
What this is really about - and in this respect all these reports belong together - is gradually dismantling this rigid market segment, this regulation down to every last detail, and going back to a free social market economy in the European Union.
That is why it is obviously necessary to use our common sense to refocus the marketing initiatives undertaken very successfully by many producer groups in many countries of the European Union and to make it possible for them to sell anything they have that still needs to be sold.
Only here too there is another side to the coin: it will not do for farmers to sell potatoes to the producer group when times are hard, and for them to distribute the potatoes on the open market when times are good and they can obtain a good price.
That would mark the end of this help, this effective help of marketing.
Of course this is also about marketing.
Mr Fantuzzi's report also contains proposals to give greater support to marketing in the European Union.
It is quite astonishing that when it comes to marketing, the economic giant of the European Union is still in its infancy and is faced with the task of trying, with a very small budget, to emulate the marketing pioneers and giants.
We need a robust marketing campaign here.
Unfortunately, good things cost money.
We need to build on what we have at regional level.
The economic giant, the EU, has to be a marketing giant as well!
