Mr President, I would first like to thank Mr Spencer for his report and also in general for his work in committee.
As I come from a town on the Danube I would like to thank him for his statement today and for emphasising the importance of this strip of Europe that has very often been an area of crisis and war but could also be an area of peace and cooperation, linking western and central Europe with the Balkans and also with Russia, Ukraine and finally also Turkey, as he mentioned.
It is on the one hand a positive sign for Europe that the crises and political conflicts are not inside but on the edge of the European Union.
But this is no cause for satisfaction, as we need to devote extra-special attention to achieving peace on our borders.
The President-in-Office was the first in today's debate to ask what has happened to the political solutions.
I would like to ask the further question: where were the crisis prevention measures in recent years?
Crisis prevention is not a miracle weapon, if I can use the term 'weapon' here.
But bombs are not a miracle weapon either!
Nor are ground troops, as we know.
We must bear all these instruments in mind, but if we are building a common foreign and security policy here I would urge that we begin primarily where we should begin, which is with crisis prevention.
This is an important task which we must bear in mind particularly in the near future, and to which this Parliament must also contribute accordingly.
One final comment, again about the work done by Mr Spencer over the last few years.
Being an enthusiastic parliamentarian he has often brought us into confrontation with the Commission and the Council, whether we wanted to or not.
What is important is that he lent weight to Parliament and its Members.
I would ask the Commission and the Council to take note of the fact that we parliamentarians are capable of more than simply holding debates such as these, which are not always very interesting or exciting, and that the Council and the Commission should in future involve Parliament more in the drafting and also in the implementation of policy.
Then the policies of the European Union are sure to be even more efficient than they will be under the new High Representative.
