Mr President, I want to extend my warmest thanks to the rapporteur for what she has done on behalf of the Committee on Budgets and this House.
Ladies and gentlemen, I rather got the impression today that you thought Mrs Haug had drawn up this report largely for her own amusement.
Every one of us should realise that she took a real Sisyphean task upon herself here and I believe she has done an admirable and fantastic job.
Each of us comes from our own Member State and we really have seen today that we are all bringing our own Member State's special interests with us here.
The discussion showed that extensively enough.
The way I read this report, Mrs Haug has tried to propose short and medium-term measures.
They include the question of the British rebate and of course they include the question of cofinancing agricultural policy.
And to the Member who declared it was about renationalising the agricultural system - something people sometimes say against their better judgment and that has been debated at length - I would say that such matters must of course be addressed here.
But Mrs Haug has also paved the way for what we will in the final analysis need on the revenue side, namely European revenue in the form of European taxes.
Only then will we see an end to the interminable debate about who is the biggest net contributor, who is the biggest net recipient, which is what it is obviously all about just now.
Because this report is sufficiently logical and well constructed and because it comes very close to fulfilling the task we set, namely to formulate and document Parliament's position prior to the European Council decisions, I would call on everyone to support it accordingly.
It will not be the last report by the Committee on Budgets to cause us problems.
Looking at the question of the financial perspective, we may find that the balance of interests differs somewhat from today's, but we as the European Parliament should seek to remain capable of action at budgetary level.
With this report we certainly are, which is why we should support it on Thursday.
