Mr President, may I remind the Commissioner that, according to one of our sayings, words and deeds are often oceans apart.
If we want to keep to the timetable that was drawn up in Buenos Aires and if we want to draw up our own timetable for that purpose, we shall have to cross those oceans together in the fastest possible time with the firmest measures we can implement, otherwise we shall be left sitting helplessly on one shore as the climatic disaster breaks out on the other.
I think it is essential, Commissioner, to do a number of things at international level.
One of these - and a very important one too - is to continue the dialogue with the developing countries that was so productive in Buenos Aires so that we can develop the proposals for the clean development mechanism together with these countries.
I also believe that, even though we have had little joy on this from the outset, we in the European Union must come up with some very specific proposals as to how emissions trading should ultimately work, how monitoring can be carried out and how individual emissions and reductions in emissions are to be assessed, so that we are armed with this information when the time comes.
I also believe it is essential to incorporate these issues more effectively into our strategies for negotiating the accession of the applicant countries to an enlarged Union.
In Kyoto, the countries whose applications are being considered for accession in the first wave undertook to make the same reductions in emissions as the Member States of the European Union.
The crux of the matter now, however, is to involve them in the preparation process, so that we do not have a situation in which they accede to membership of the Union without having made the necessary preparations and therefore cannot be integrated into the European system of burden-sharing.
I think some of my colleagues will want to deal in greater detail with European burden-sharing.
I only wish to say that, besides the coordination of national plans, it will also be necessary to ensure that we have the required legal bases at EU level and that we create such bases wherever they are lacking, because unless we pool our efforts we shall not achieve the goal we set ourselves in Kyoto.
I also believe that these measures will have to be accompanied by the development of safeguards in the areas of health, agriculture and ecological protection, because as the change in climate becomes ever more apparent, dangers will emerge that we may never have contemplated.
It is my belief that, as we prepare to enter the new millennium, we now have the opportunity to achieve sustainable development, rapid technological progress and above all a fairer distribution of the world's resources, and I hope we have the strength and the courage to grasp that opportunity.
