Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, looking around me I realise that my three minutes would still be pretty much intact even if I were to greet everyone in the Chamber individually!
But time is precious at this late hour and I shall not be needing to use up my ample allowance of minutes on too many questions of substance.
Let me explain why.
Firstly - as we have seen on many similar occasions - there is no fundamental disagreement among the big political groups in Parliament on the substantive issues of competition policy.
Unanimity reigns.
As to this particular matter, we may have argued in committee over a few minor points, but in the end we reached a uniform, consensual view.
We all share a desire to see procedures clarified and decisions taken in a transparent way.The Commission needs to see its position as a competition authority consolidated and its supervisory role in the field of aid strengthened.
I can go along with the rapporteur on all these issues.
I would make one point, however.
Not surprisingly - looking at the clock - no one from the Council is to be seen.
Our much-esteemed Competition Commissioner is with us, however, and perhaps he can enlighten me.
I am keen to establish what precisely we are doing here tonight.
It is not the content of the debate that worries me, but the form.
We have come together to deliberate over a text; tomorrow we shall be voting on our amendments.
As far as I can see, however, we have been overtaken by events.
The actual decision was taken two months ago in the Council.
So I am wondering where we as a parliament come in.
Perhaps it is true that our views have been taken into account, but what about the points which were not heeded?
Article 14 - in the Council's version of the text - contains a paragraph which refers to the suspension of recovery proceedings.
This paragraph was unanimously rejected in committee.
I happen to know, because the relevant amendment came from me and, as shadow rapporteur for my group, I managed to get all my points through.
The committee expressly voted against this paragraph, but it figures in the Council text.
What happens now, Commissioner?
Could it be that we are simply engaged in intellectual gymnastics?
This is what concerns me.
Maybe we need to rethink our own procedures.
The horse would appear to have bolted; it seems rather futile for us to be discussing the angle of the stable door.
