Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, well, those of you who are still here, I think that as we are amongst experts, there are only a few key points to make about the budget for Parliament for the year 2000.
First, we are deciding on a budget which takes us into the next millennium.
This will be the first year of the new millennium, and a new Parliament will of course have to implement this budget.
We will also have a new Commission.
And this budget may also be based on a new interinstitutional agreement.
That brings us to the first and most important point.
If we do not accept the interinstitutional agreement this Thursday, that is if we cannot summon up 314 votes for it, then the additional EUR 155 million provided for Category 5 will not be available.
That would mean that the additional 20 % which would in turn be available to the European Parliament from the EUR 155 million would not after all be available.
As a consequence, with continuing expenditure we would exceed the 20 % ceiling.
In other words, we would not be able to keep expenditure within the 20 % limit.
This is simply one more argument for Members to vote in favour on Thursday, if we do not want also to cut back our activities.
Second, we have taken a very major step in staff policy.
The Secretary-General is sitting next to you, Madam President, and my comments now are addressed to him.
The decision we have taken in committee and recommended to Parliament involves promoting around 20 % of all staff with scope for promotion.
This is an enormous step, and as I said at the beginning of this debate, I cannot help feeling - as we were in a situation of deadlock - that there is always a wave of promotions in the year when one Parliament steps down and the next is elected.
During the discussion that we had with him during the conciliation procedure and also in the committee itself, the Secretary-General assured us that this was the start of a new staff policy, under which quality and not the passport you hold would be the key to promotion.
I have no way of monitoring this, but I would urge those Members who return to the House to watch very carefully that the measure that we have agreed to as a concession continues to be observed over the next few years.
I am confident that the Secretary-General will continue to adhere to the undertaking he has given us in future, with the new Parliament.
I particularly welcome the fact that by virtue of a Bureau decision we have upgraded the 60 posts for ushers, including those here in the Chamber, from Category D to Category C, in four stages.
This follows on consistently from the steps we have already taken in recent years.
I would also like to be very explicit about the buildings - these comments are addressed to you, Madam President, and to the Bureau.
We have expressed our willingness to retrospectively implement the ad personam promotions resulting from Mrs Müller's amendment, on condition that the Bureau respects its undertaking to finance the buildings within a ten-year period.
The corrected Berlin decision means that all the prerequisites for this are in place.
I am asking you too to respect this promise - just as we have done one our side - by honouring the ad personam promotions.
I would like to make one final and very personal comment.
I believe that a parliament that wishes to be equal to the tasks demanded of it, and this applies all the more so following the Treaty of Amsterdam, needs to have an employment structure for assistants that allows it to do full justice to these tasks.
Over the last ten years, since 1989, I have been one of the people who have secured a more than 100 % increase in the flat-rate allowance for assistants.
I stand by this, as I believe that good and well qualified academic assistants are essential if a Member who takes his work seriously is to carry out his duties to the full.
I would therefore recommend that the new Parliament should return to this subject, as things have been at a standstill for two years now while we have been dealing with other issues, but we must come back to this point if our assistants are to work well.
