Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I felt rather helpless as I had dropped my glasses.
The aim of European environmental policy to guarantee sustainable development with a high level of environmental protection should be achieved not only with the conventional instruments of regulatory law.
The statement in the fifth environmental action programme that industry is not just part of the environmental problem but must also be part of the solution to the problem, continues to be relevant today, and an alternative to environmental regulatory law is the environmental audit scheme that we are now discussing.
The voluntary implementation - I emphasise this particularly - of eco-management and audit schemes allows companies to meet the requirements of environmental protection in a flexible way.
As we have already heard several times today, the current regulation has proved itself, in particular in industrial firms, and we have also established - here I must contradict you slightly - that 75 % of companies participating in the environmental audit are from Germany.
I too have visited the firms - a Commission list - and I can tell you that I too have seen the efforts that the people there have made, but under the simple conditions presently contained in the environmental audit scheme.
If we now include services I find this very positive.
But I think we must also recognise another problem, which is that we have to motivate small and medium-sized enterprises to agree to implement these requirements.
In doing so we must ensure that the demands we make are not beyond the capabilities of small and medium-sized enterprises, otherwise there is the danger that - as SMEs have always told me - they will then not participate in the environmental audit programme, they will implement only ISO 14001, and they will not have an environmental audit.
So once again we would have adopted an excellent decision here in Parliament but it would not actually be put into practice.
I believe the debate in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection showed this too.
I have seen how our desire to involve interested parties is put into practice, in a company that produces environmental technology.
When we say that the available technology should apply, in my view this is a concept which has no place whatsoever in legislation, Mrs Graenitz, as it changes every week and would have to be constantly redefined.
It cannot be defined once and for all.
There is no end to technology.
It continues to develop and it is not necessary the best thing.
I appeal to you once again: let us try to change these proposals a little more, as we need widespread participation.
We will not achieve this with the current version, I warn you!
