Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the deepening of the single market, the creation of economic and monetary union and the globalisation of markets change the conditions of competition and the rules of play in competition policy, not just at international level but at European level too.
When I look at the Commission's report on competition policy, I find that it addresses many of these new problems and also considers the fact that in an era of globalisation we will have to reckon with an increasing number of mergers, of forms of cooperation and mega-mergers.
However, I wonder whether we always draw the right distinction between strategic alliances and the possible emergence of monopolies, which would be harmful to competition.
When I look at the Communities' competition law in regard to, for instance, cartels and subsidies I find, however, that it is in fact being reviewed continuously and as required.
In regard to state aid it certainly needs emphasising that this aid is still needed.
But we have good reason to criticise the very high subsidies granted in a few Member States.
It is also right to criticise the fact that increasingly few resources are being made available for the aid agreed under the common market rules, in the field, for instance, of small and medium-sized undertakings, environmental protection, research and development, while more and more aid is being given to individual undertakings.
That is certainly not in the common interest of effective, free and fair competition.
At this moment in time, distortions of competition as a result of tax aids are more important.
Not enough cases of this kind are being investigated.
More and more Member States want to attract business to their national locations by granting tax reliefs to undertakings, in the financial and insurance sector, as also in other economic sectors.
That distorts competition.
I believe the aid rules must look more closely into these distortions of competition.
The Commission must investigate more of these cases.
The list of 85 cases of tax reliefs, some of which are reminiscent of tax havens, currently before us speaks volumes.
The Commission must also play its part in preparing the next round of WTO talks, for we do need competition law that also works at international level.
Here the current GATT and WTO rules need to be supplemented by internationally effective competition rules.
I believe it would be important to have national reports on competition, like the WTO national trade reports.
I also believe it would be important to try to establish minimum standards for all states in order to prevent anti-competitive practices, and to set up independent competition authorities.
That could lead to effective, international competition rules under which the signatory states undertake also to make their national competition law internationally applicable.
