Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you will all remember the discussion that we have had several times in this Chamber in the course of the last year.
Parliament developed a completely new approach to technical legislation in the context of the debates on the EU bus construction directive and the Murphy report.
The European legislator would draw up the political framework, then the users and experts, particularly from the field of standardisation, would sort out the details in working groups.
In this way we would achieve a greater degree of agreement and acceptance among those concerned.
We take the key concept of simplifying legislation very seriously.
The present proposal could also be implemented using this system.
The text might then read as follows: 'Interior heating systems for cars must be such that they can be operated safely; they must be covered sufficiently to prevent passengers from being burned, and finally they should emit few harmful chemicals'.
A technical working group could then have developed the details from these principles.
In this context I am keenly awaiting the Council's common position on the bus directive, as I am sure that through codecision we will not only find a solution to this dossier but we will be able to set the course for the future.
With regard to Parliament's report it remains to be said that we fully support Mrs Billingham's amendments.
Moreover, we consider efficiency tests for heaters to be both necessary and important as the quality of fitted heaters must be quantifiable, for example whether the engine coolant can be brought to operating temperature before the engine is started.
Amendment No 10 also deals with the passenger safety aspect.
If the heater is to be installed in the passenger compartment it should be securely compartmented off.
We do not wish to restrict ourselves to a single type of design for this, however, and for this reason, in Amendment No 12, we advocate a general heat-resistant material.
I would like to express my thanks for the cooperation that was achieved with the experts and the rapporteur, and I look forward with anticipation to tomorrow's vote.
