Madam President, Commissioner, it is good that the European Parliament's report on the broad economic policy guidelines in the Community and the Member States strongly emphasises how essential it is to coordinate economic policies, and that it goes even further than the Commission proposal by also demanding practical initiatives.
The fact is that structural measures and labour market policy are only part of the answer to the unemployment problem, which we are all concerned about.
What is decisive is whether we can achieve growth rates in excess of 3 % in Europe and in the Member States.
For this to be the case, economic policy must fulfil its responsibilities in terms of employment policy and ensure that there is a balanced and appropriate policy mix in the European Union with instruments geared towards supply and demand.
We need economic policies to be coordinated so that we can engineer and guarantee higher, sustainable growth.
You see, monetary policy is no longer responsible only for price stability, financial policy only for a sound public budget, and wage policy only for pay trends.
If the Central Bank, the State and the two sides of industry can work as a team - while fully respecting the independence of the individual parties - they will be able to exert a decisive influence on investment, growth and employment.
All three players must therefore in any case be placed under an obligation to contribute to a balanced and appropriate policy mix in the Community.
An essential part of this is a financial policy which will help in particular to increase investment and which will not try to consolidate without considering the economy.
We need an incomes policy which will help to increase households' purchasing power without triggering increases in labour costs which exceed increases in productivity - which means that pay trends must be compatible with productivity gains, but should not fall below them either - and we need a monetary policy which will contribute to economic growth by delivering price stability.
That is why the ECB's decision to cut interest rates was the right decision and an important step forward.
The ECB has finally made its contribution to growth and employment in accordance with the Treaty.
In this way, the Member States will also have more scope for investment in their budgets, even though consolidation is still an important goal.
It should be borne in mind, however, that fiscal measures are one way of responding to cyclical or local blips in demand and that their effects vary from country to country.
Establishing a strict deficit ceiling can definitely have an adverse effect, and greater account needs to be taken of individual situations.
Apart from this, where are the proposals for how the Member States can stimulate public sector investment while still respecting the 3 % ceiling?
The guidelines need to give pointers here.
Europe still underestimates the significance of cross-border infrastructure projects, and here - five years after the Delors White Paper was discussed at the European summit - the Council of European Finance Ministers is requested finally to produce European added value in the fields of transport infrastructure and information and communication structures, to push through modernisation schemes and here also to make offensive use of the European Investment Bank, so that in view of the sluggish economy, an upturn will be stimulated more than it has been hitherto by European public sector investment, if possible in partnership with private investors.
Economic and employment policy complement and support each other.
The Employment Pact must play a special role.
It can only do so if the broad economic policy guidelines and the employment policy guidelines are drawn up at the same time, so that both sets of guidelines apply when both national budgets and the European budget are established.
If fighting mass unemployment is the number one challenge for the future of Europe, then it is not only necessary for those involved to agree; the context in which action should be taken, as well as what it should consist of and the timetable, must be laid down.
I think that this is how economic and employment policy can actually be linked together and if, in addition to this, tax policy also makes a contribution, for example through a reduced VAT rate being applied on labour-intensive services, then Europe will be able to make considerable progress.
