Madam President, our group fully supports the factual, in-depth report by Mr Elchlepp.
Not only is it important because there exists a huge future export market for renewable energies, but it is also necessary to reduce the dependence of many developing countries on imports in this sector.
As a result of the improvement of social and environmental living conditions, especially in third world countries and in Eastern Europe, and the finite nature of fossil resources, together with the lessons learned from the dangers inherent in atomic energy, it is necessary to take urgent support and cooperation measures in the renewable energy sector.
That is why we recognise that an important basis has been established in this report.
We have put in place five new budget items for third world countries.
This report could be the starting point for us to move forward in this area.
Expansion of production capacity in third world countries must be supported, for example by means of the European Development Fund.
Just as important are education and training, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the one million solar roofs programme, 'debt for solar swaps' and also what was said by Mr von Habsburg.
I believe that the PHARE programme offers an important basis, not for supporting nuclear power plants in the East, but for supporting the renewable energy sector.
Within the framework of the Lomé Convention, we need not only an energy chapter but, as Mr Schwaiger said, determined action on the part of the Commission to implement the necessary measures.
In my opinion the Commission must set up a special unit to promote marketing and cooperation here, to support the NGO projects in third world countries and, through the PHARE, TACIS and MEDA programmes, to support projects in the Mediterranean region and in Eastern Europe.
As we do not have responsibility for the budget in the European Development Fund, demands must be made of governments and so the impetus must come from the Commission.
They must make use of our joint potential with these countries to help the people and to maintain the basis for our lives and our existence.
Otherwise we would not be able to survive because we would not have the energy sources.
