Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first let me turn to the positive aspects.
It is vitally important to economic and social cohesion and therefore to the very core of the European social model that the new regulation was adopted in good time, before the end of the European Parliament's electoral term.
That guarantees the continuation of the funding.
However, the price is very high.
The regions will now have to compensate for the financial cuts at the very heart of European integration by putting forward more intelligent plans.
In this regard I call on the Commission to apply its control function really seriously and genuinely to pursue in its programmes the objectives formulated in the new regulation - sustainable development, promotion of employment, promotion of equal opportunities for women and men, environmental improvement, support for small and medium-sized undertakings - and not to shy away from them again in face of the Member States.
The result of Berlin, as has already been said today, is not quite the reform we hoped for.
After Parliament increased the rights of the people of Europe by incorporating a comprehensive principle of participation in the draft regulation - and this is the only basis for sustainable planning - the Council is now leaving this common concern to the discretion of the Member States.
I regard that as the main problem with the new regulation.
When the funds are used for integrated development plans, the traditional way of thinking in terms of resources must be overcome.
The regulation does offer possibilities, but I have since become aware of the resistance at Member State level.
What this means is that local development initiatives must obtain ESF and ERDF funds if they really are to be able to combat unemployment.
Under the new Structural Funds regulation it has proved possible to continue the cohesion policy.
But that is not a reform!
Efficiency, administrative simplification and concentration have fallen by the wayside.
They were sacrificed to the confessional procedure and the favours handed out there.
I conclude from this that if we do not finally manage to place the European interest above national interests we will not manage to achieve a genuinely progressive economic and social cohesion policy.
