Mr President-designate of the Commission, the new Commission is faced with a number of big tasks.
We now have a joint policy on currency which is being managed by the European Central Bank.
What we now need is a common economic policy.
This should include consistent application of the rules on competition, including the Stability and Growth Pact.
It should also include joint minimum regulations for taxation and a number of basic principles.
I am convinced that this common economic policy can only succeed if it is designed in accordance with the principles of a social market economy.
What we need in this connection - and this, Mr President of the Commission, is a further point to which you referred quite specifically - is a number of projects which are visible to the citizens of Europe.
Firstly - and I know that there are criticisms about this - food safety is one of people' s basic concerns yet also one of the things which stops the Common Market from really working.
I should like personally to encourage you, Mr President of the Commission, to take up this theme, for it seems to me to be of fundamental importance, on the one hand for our citizens but, on the other hand too, for the proper functioning of the Common Market.
Secondly: the supervision of air space.
For this, America has one authority, to which you also referred in one of your initial speeches.
In Europe we have three authorities concerned with this issue.
That is unacceptable to the airline companies and is dangerous for the citizens of Europe.
This seems to me to be a second big priority.
Thirdly: the further dismantling of monopolies.
From the costs of telephone calls and of electricity, it appears now for the first time that dismantling monopolies is of practical value to our citizens and also entails tangible advantages.
I think this ought to encourage us to go further down this road, that is to say, in the fields of postal services, energy, telecommunications and railways where similar conditions prevail.
In my opinion, dismantling monopolies is to the advantage of the citizens of the European Union.
