Madam President, I know you have certainly endeavoured to pick up on all the defects there are here.
I think, however, we should take care not to put all the defects down to the architects, but we should rather look into our own court.
There is one thing I find simply unforgivable.
In countless motions for resolution, all of us in Parliament have stressed that renewable energies were the technologies of the future, the technologies of the 21st century.
This week the UN presented a report pointing out that energy conservation would be one of the themes of the next decade.
I find it unforgivable that we call for a One Million Roofs Solar Programme, but we have not invested in renewable energy either in Strasbourg or Brussels and have not adopted the slightest energy-saving procedures here: for example, the vestibules to our offices are lit up day and night and the lights cannot be switched off, and so forth.
This is precisely what we called for in the Bettini Report seven years ago.
There have been several exchanges of letters with the Bureau.
Mr Priestley will inform you of this.
I was told it would be too expensive.
That is just incorrect and unacceptable.
You know the costs of renewable energy would pay for themselves within nine to twelve months.
How can we explain that to house builders in the Member States?
We are encouraging them to have solar roofs installed while we do not do the same with our own roof, even justifying it with the spurious argument that it is for reasons of cost.
Energy conservation, energy efficiency, renewable energy, this is what we recommend day in day out in our resolutions!
Madam President, this is a very serious matter, as we lose our credibility if we do not lead by example, if we do not make it clear that these are the themes of the next millennium.
If we do not put the principle into practice here ourselves, then we will also have lost some of our credibility.
I therefore call upon you, as a matter of urgency, to correct the most unforgivable mistakes which have been made both here and in Brussels, and to immediately convene a working party to obtain quotes for setting things right.
In addition, I would like to have an energy efficiency plan for both buildings.
For I do not think we can afford to squander so much energy here while at the same time telling the general public that they must save energy.
We are all familiar with the problems of carbon dioxide emissions and so on.
Madam President, this is a very serious subject, which has not unfortunately been addressed by you here today.
I would also like to receive an answer from you as to why this was not taken into account in the planning and how we can sort this out in future.
We must resolve these problems and achieve this with emphasis on renewable energies, energy conservation and energy efficiency.
I simply think we have a responsibility to the public to set a good example.
For I believe we are all unanimous here in thinking that environmental problems are problems which we must resolve urgently.
