Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, at a time of great agitation, whether the source of this is the Kosovo conflict or a different conflict altogether, we are again obliged to debate a subject in the European Parliament which has already occupied all of us for too long, the trade dispute with the USA.
The United States is insisting on one point of view, firstly with bananas - an issue which has most likely been resolved in its favour - and now with hormones, where it is extremely difficult to draw the picture in such a way that it will attract the sympathy of those outside the European Union, because the trade disputes we are talking about here only involve 2 % of our joint trade.
But it is precisely because of this that I should like, on this occasion, to make a clear appeal to the United States.
Although we know about the need for innovation, what really matters to us Europeans is not neglecting our traditional roots.
I am thinking here, for example, of banana growing in some Member States and protecting our consumers, to whom we are accountable as elected Members, and we need to further consolidate that level of protection.
In doing so, we also take the liberty of setting different priorities from those of our American colleagues in Congress.
However, I do think it is essential also to appeal to the Commission and the Council.
Sir Leon, our experience of working with you over the last few years has been extremely positive, because during the transatlantic trade disputes you have worked very closely with the European Parliament.
I should like to thank you very much for that, but you alone are not the Commission and the Council.
I should therefore, on behalf of my group, also like to ask that any efforts to resolve the trade disputes by extending the procedure before the WTO, so as to delay the result, should be vigorously opposed.
I must remind all of us of what we have done frequently in the past.
The European Union and the United States, Canada, New Zealand and Australia each have one vote in the WTO, but hundreds of developing countries, who are waiting in the WTO and hoping that their interests will also be taken into consideration, must not be sidelined by ongoing disputes between the European Union and the USA, because there are other fundamental problems too.
I also ask that we Europeans do not only think about playing for time in order to delay the process of rectifying the underlying injustices.
As the general rapporteur of the European Parliament, I should also like to warn that behaviour of this kind - playing with WTO rules mainly for political motives - might weaken the standing of the WTO both in the eyes of the USA and in the eyes of our own voters.
I should also like to call on the Socialist Group to support the PPE Group's line on this issue.
We are all experiencing all kinds of political difficulties as a result of the banana ruling and the hormone case.
Nevertheless, in spite of these difficulties, we should not lose sight of the essential features of the legal solution, which is actually a workable one.
The WTO banana ruling requires us to produce a clear regime for our own producers and ACP producers, as far as providing adequate market access for all third countries is concerned.
I would also plead for a solution to be found as quickly as possible, because the legitimate imposition of punitive tariffs by the USA has put other sectors of the economy under considerable pressure and jobs are at risk in Europe as a result.
As regards assessing and authorising hormone-treated beef from the USA, I would ask you to bear in mind that the reason we set up a multilateral legal framework was precisely to protect weaker states.
Thanks to the WTO and because we are not giving in to market power, we have a legal procedure for raising legitimate concerns.
But if no hard scientific evidence can be produced, then obviously no import ban can be imposed.
The first in a series of reports assessing the health risks of hormone-treated meat has, however, come out today.
The first point to emerge from this is that it is not completely safe to consume this meat.
But we should avoid having a transatlantic - or indeed a European - philosophical war about individual reports and should wait calmly for the final verdict of the scientific community.
It is noticeable that comments made in the interim are based more on emotion than on the facts.
Today we have tried to combine the various opinions held in the European Parliament in one joint motion, to allow Europe to speak with one voice on this important matter.
I would therefore ask you to vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
