Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this is probably the last time that we will be holding this debate under Article K.6.
Once the Treaty of Amsterdam comes into force, our debate will not only be based on a new article, it will also be far more limited in scope, as it will only be concerned with police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters.
Madam President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office, before I move on to the subject at hand, I would first like to make some procedural comments.
Up to now, we have normally held this debate at the end of a Council presidency, in December.
This had the clear advantage that at least one of the Presidents-in-Office responsible could respond to Parliament.
We really must insist on arrangements being made to return to that pattern in future.
I concede that this is less an issue for the Council presidency than for Parliament itself, but this does need to be coordinated.
However, my second point is most definitely one for the Council.
Traditionally, we get this debate underway with an oral question and a motion for a resolution.
For years we have been calling on the Council to provide us with a written report as a basis for our debate.
This would also have great advantages for the Council, as it could highlight what it sees as the key points and what it regards as successful achievements.
Giving us a written report before this debate could not fail to improve cooperation with Parliament.
This resolution includes various requests about cooperation between Parliament and the Council that we have made before.
However, during the Maastricht Treaty phase they never resulted in a proper procedure.
Interestingly enough, the rather unfortunate wording concerning the most important aspects of the activities on which the Council is supposed to consult Parliament has been eliminated from the Treaty of Amsterdam, which I am pleased to say makes it clear exactly when Parliament is to be consulted and when it is just to be informed.
But a series of consultations has been overlooked even under the present wording - I shall come back to this point in a moment.
The new arrangement we have requested provides for us to be kept informed about important developments, as stipulated in Article 39(2).
This relates in particular, Madam President-in-Office, Mr President-in-Office, to Council meetings, including informal ones.
Parliament should not have to piece together information about events in the Council from press reports.
Surely it cannot be a problem to inform Parliament beforehand what is to be discussed at Council meetings, and, afterwards, what was discussed.
I would now like to refer to a few practical points.
Certain key legislative matters - and I am sorry to have to harp on about this - are communitarised in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
They may require a unanimous vote for at least five years, but nevertheless they have been communitarised.
In other words, they have been removed from the legislative competence of national parliaments.
At the same time, however, they are still outside this Parliament's competence, since we are only entitled to be consulted until the codecision procedure has been introduced.
That means - and I can see two brilliant lawyers in front of me - that for the purposes of the development of European legislation areas that are clearly subject to the legal process, such as asylum and immigration, can no longer be directly influenced by an elected parliament, and that is surely not acceptable.
The only possibility I can see is for the Council to consult Parliament particularly carefully during the interim phase, five years plus x, and to take account of the views Parliament expresses during the consultation.
I just wanted to say a few words about that.
To conclude, I would like to mention another aspect, just by way of example.
I was delighted that the President-in-Office last Monday or Tuesday called for the scope of Europol's operations to be extended.
I was delighted to hear that because his erstwhile fellow member of the Green Group in the European Parliament, Ms Roth, would have run out of the Chamber screaming if she had heard words like that.
The point I want to make is that the further development of Europol is coming up against the limits imposed by the structure of intergovernmental cooperation.
In view of the communitarisation involved, progress in this field needs to be subject to parliamentary scrutiny and judicial control.
So anyone wanting to achieve progress in this field must submit themselves to the rigours of communitarised progress, and that is what Parliament is urging you to do.
