Mr President, the rapporteur Mr Bernard-Reymond deserves congratulations.
He has drafted a very good report.
We have had a number of discussions and draft amendments and I believe that has resulted in a very balanced report.
As Members we are in an extremely difficult situation in regard to China.
I could quote Mr Gorbachev, who said 'life punishes latecomers', but perhaps China would find that rather difficult to accept given the man who said it and against the background of the fact that the Soviet Union disintegrated in a manner that was not exactly positive and that it would be a disaster for China and the world were history to repeat itself in this regard.
That is precisely why we must remain in continuous dialogue with the Chinese and with the representatives of China and convince them that it is important for them, for China, to carry out the appropriate reforms and that this is not being forced upon them from the outside but forms part and parcel of the democracy movement in China.
Here we must consider three important issues, the political, the economic and the human rights issue.
Let us not be naive enough to believe we could eliminate any of these.
Let us not be naive enough to believe we could fight for human rights unless we continue the political dialogue at the same time and also support and promote the economic development of China.
China is an important partner and it is precisely those who keep saying that we need the United Nations and the Security Council for security policy measures and decisions in the world who must conduct this political dialogue with China, even in China's present, unhappy political form.
In regard to the economic question, of course I know that a number of undertakings have purely economic or trade interests.
But our common objective is the progress of economic development in China.
It cannot be in our interest to see China collapse; on the contrary we want China to develop economically.
Our policy and that of the European Union must be that at the same time - not as an alternative or substitute for that objective - we remain unyielding on the human rights issue and endeavour to persuade China to make progress with political democracy, in its own interests and in the interests of human rights.
For however many mistakes Mr Gorbachev made, those words are crucial.
They apply for China too and in the case of China they could have far-reaching, disastrous results and consequences for the whole world: life punishes latecomers!
China will be the first to be punished if it does not try in good time to make parallel progress in the economic, political and human rights fields.
That is why I so much endorse what the report is now endeavouring to do: it is trying to approach China through dialogue, rather than prescribing from above in a kind of imperialist manner how China should conduct itself; instead China is being invited to join with us in making the world a better, fairer and economically more successful place.
