Madam President, the only thing you can say about these three reports is that they are acceptable, and we can vote for them - but that does not solve our problem.
We have already made a great many declarations of this kind in the House.
We always agree.
It is hard to think of another issue on which Parliament and the Commission see eye to eye to such an extent as on promoting renewables.
That is not the problem.
And yet I feel powerless when I look at the figures, which almost drive you to despair.
Let us take Mr Seppänen's report, for example.
Mr Seppänen quite rightly says that if you exclude hydro-electricity, renewable energy's share is only 1.3 %.
If you include hydro, it is 6 %.
We want to increase the renewables' share to 12 %, but there is little scope for a major increase in hydro - you cannot rape nature, there are limits.
The other aspect of renewable energy is biotechnology.
Hydro and biotechnology combined account for 95 % of renewable energy.
Hydro is chiefly found in the northern countries and in the Alpine regions of Austria and France and so forth, and biomass is found in the same countries, but you cannot extend these sources of energy at will, unless you are willing to pay the price.
Extending the use of biomass, on the other hand, is bound up with agricultural policy.
The fact is that a key omission from the proposals on agricultural policy in Agenda 2000 is a chapter on renewable energy.
That really should have been included.
I know that the Commission did some work on this, but in the end it was not incorporated, because the finance ministers did not of course want to pay for it: it would cost money.
That is the crux of the matter.
Fine, we want renewables, but we have to introduce them despite current market trends, because as a rule they are more costly than the cheap energy we currently have.
That is why Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz is quite right: nothing will happen without legislative measures.
The market will not achieve this by itself, otherwise this would have happened long ago.
So we need prefinancing.
In the longer term renewables will pay for themselves, but at this stage we need to prefinance them, and I therefore think that our biggest problem is not the technology itself - of course we want better and better plants, that goes without saying - but prefinancing.
How can we mobilise private capital and public funds and persuade the banks to play a more active part in this field?
To my mind, that is the central issue with renewable energy.
We once had a debate about feeding in electricity from renewables here.
You will recall that the proposal I made at that time was rejected by a majority of Parliament.
Well, perhaps that was not such a disaster, perhaps there are better suggestions, but we have not heard them yet.
I would also like to ask Commissioner Papoutsis when a proposal along these lines will be brought forward, because at that point we were promised such a proposal before the end of the year.
It is now March and we still have not seen a proposal.
I grant you that this is a complicated field, and I do not envy you your task.
I tried it myself and had no luck in this House.
I wish you more luck, but we must do something.
Do something better than I proposed.
You will have my full support, but we must do something.
We cannot wait for the market to solve this.
There is also a link with energy prices.
According to the Commission documents, energy efficiency has been increased by just 0.6 % per annum over this decade, because energy prices are so low.
In the 1970s and 1980s the rate of increase was 2 %, because energy prices were high.
That is an economic fact, so we need to get a hold on this problem.
We have suggested energy taxation, which I know is not very palatable, but we need an honest debate about these issues, mere declarations are no longer enough.
