Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I beg for your attention on certain legal and factual issues.
Perhaps the Secretary-General could remain with us - we need a lawyer.
Mr Secretary-General, I would be grateful if you just stay here for a minute, because this is important.
Madam President, I believe that a vote tomorrow on my report would be erroneous in law, illegal and impossible.
I would like to give my reasons for this statement and to call on Parliament and the Bureau to use their authority to postpone tomorrow's vote on my report.
My justification for this is as follows.
We considered these issues in the Committee on Transport and Tourism last week, but the situation has changed now that the Treaty of Amsterdam has come into force.
This morning we quite rightly resumed the procedure during first reading and we repeated Parliament's position from the previous first reading.
The committee services have now published a report numbered A-0000, which is a corrected version of my report A-0245, which is on the agenda.
So this is a new report which I have not even been able to read properly yet, because the procedural page includes explanations in French, and I assume that you should be able to read your own report in your own language.
And what does the procedural page say, as far as I can make out?
It says that the Council has confirmed its common position.
First of all, I consider that to be illegal, because according to the Treaty of Amsterdam, the Council should have consulted the Committee of the Regions.
I do not know how it did that in just a few seconds, because we only had the first reading at 12.00 noon and I think this is a result of earlier this morning, before we had the first reading.
That is the first legal error!
Secondly, in the procedural page of a report that I have never signed, it says that today, during the sitting on 4 May, the President of the European Parliament has confirmed the common position and has referred the common position to the Committee on Transport and Tourism as the committee responsible.
However, the Committee on Transport has not met since 12.00 noon today, nor is a meeting scheduled for tomorrow morning.
So I do not know how it is possible to complete the second reading of a report in the Committee on Transport in a procedurally correct manner, if this report is to be voted on tomorrow at 12.00 noon.
Madam President, the report on the agenda is not therefore valid, as it is has been drawn up in accordance with Maastricht.
The report that I have now been given has a zero number instead of an agenda number, it is not even in my own language, and it refers the report, the common position that is, to the Committee on Transport, which is not meeting.
The explanation given by some administrative services to the effect that we knew this last week and anticipated it, and that we considered last week what we wished to do, may be all very interesting from a legal theory point of view, but it is not acceptable for us to have a first reading today, for a report to be referred to the Committee on Transport when it is not meeting, and for the administration to amend my report from last week and to say that it is a second reading report.
Well, you clever lawyers, I informed the Sittings Service about this yesterday, so that they could consider it in good time.
In my opinion, the report cannot be voted on tomorrow and it must be officially deleted from the agenda.
I attach particularly great importance to this because we are looking at a report on road user charges, and the European Court of Justice declared the first directive to be void because of a legal error, namely inadequate consultation of Parliament, and declared that it would only remain in effect until the renewed decision-making process had been completed.
I would regard it as being highly inappropriate if Parliament were tomorrow to adopt a proposal for a directive that was once again defective because of a legal error.
I call upon the administration to check this very carefully, and I must insist that, as is quite right, it should be Parliament, its Members and committees that decide, and not some officials who take it upon themselves to do this by altering the procedural page.
I do take this very seriously, Madam President, and I hope that your staff, when they examine this objectively, will come to the conclusion tomorrow that the report - whatever report that is, whatever number it has, I mean report A-0245, which is on the agenda and has a definite subject matter - well, I would consider it as highly questionable for a report to be rewritten by officials and suddenly put on the agenda.
That cannot be right!
In my view the Council common position, as the President has said, and no matter how defective it may be because of failure to consult the committee, is now with the Committee on Transport, and that committee is not meeting this week.
Now let me turn to the actual content of the report, as we must after all say something about that.
I regard the decision taken by the majority last week to approve the common position as being a crass error.
I would like to illustrate this with one or two arguments.
In my second reading report, we simply reiterated the reservations we had at the first reading.
These were swept aside by the Socialists, because Austrian Members and their Swiss friends want to sew up the EU/Switzerland convention come what may, and have therefore brushed aside any reservations.
That is simply not acceptable, and I shall give you two reasons why.
I think it is highly questionable for the Commission to declare, in a political agreement, if the common position gets through, that we should withdraw our complaint against Austria regarding excessive toll charges as a matter of political agreement.
I still believe that the current Commission and Neil Kinnock are subject to the law, and that if the Commission has justifiably made a complaint, this complaint cannot be withdrawn as a result of political chicanery and by way of a political deal.
I say that because I believe that the Commission should be bound by the law and not by political trickery.
Secondly, I believe that the level of toll charges agreed by the Council is quite simply intolerably low.
I have never understood the Socialists, who are calling for a great hike in road user charges in principle, but whose demands fall short of the level Parliament judged to be correct by a large majority in 1997, which was higher than the Council has proposed now.
I regard this as grovelling before the Council, which has effectively said 'you can like it or lump it!'.
According to Maastricht we have the right of codecision and of approving the common position in this case.
As Christian Democrats, we cannot consent to withdrawing from the codecision procedure at the expense of our road haulage companies and at the expense of the environment.
So I hope that we can still achieve a reasonable form of consultation at second reading.
