Mr President, Commissioners, ladies and gentlemen, this debate represents the end of a long discussion and decision-making process on the reform of regional and structural policy.
Opinions may differ slightly on the individual points, but one aspect is clearly of overriding significance.
The fact that we have kept to the timetable is an enormous advantage.
It means that the review of the Structural Funds will be able to take effect in good time, in contrast to 1994, and that we will not be faced with a repeat of the dilemma we had five years ago.
My group has from the outset declared itself in favour of reforming structural and regional aid, so that the financial resources available are concentrated on the regions in greatest need of development, but also so that greater individual responsibility is assigned to the Member States, particularly where entire regions are not eligible for EU structural aid.
We welcome the fact that the new Objective 1 regions receive 70 % of resources.
This means that it is now possible to target support at specific regions.
However, we regret not having managed to introduce a separate objective for rural development which we have been openly in favour of the whole time.
We also regret that with regard to the possibilities for national involvement, the Member States will not be allowed to select Objective 2 regions which do not meet the strict criteria, but will still be limited by criteria and the Commission's reserving the right to grant authorisation.
We have always urged that a regional GDP per capita of less than 75 % of the Community average be strictly applied as the criteria for the selection of future Objective 1 regions.
This has been successful on the whole, even though in the meantime there has repeatedly been the danger of speaking out in favour of flexibility on this matter.
Opinion is divided within my group as far as the Cohesion Fund is concerned.
Some of my colleagues - particularly those from the southern European countries - support the Commission's and Council's proposal to continue with the Cohesion Fund in its present form.
Others believe that for the countries which are taking part in monetary union, the Cohesion Fund has achieved its objective and has made a fundamental contribution to nominal convergence.
There is therefore no reason for it to continue to exist in its present form.
Obviously, not all dreams can come true.
Wishes still remain to be fulfilled.
However, the compromise as a whole is a step in the right direction for the next planning period.
