Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin with the two statements on Kosovo.
I certainly do not agree with Mrs Pack's position, much as I sympathise with her emotional involvement, because we have to think things through to the end and consider the consequences of that position.
And the consequences, which involve withdrawing the OSCE mission, would in my view be nothing other than war.
That is the crucial point; it would be war, once again at the cost of a great many human lives.
Let me give you the historical background again.
Since 1989/1990 we have been seeing how unresolved conflicts, some of which date back to earlier times - I am thinking of the outcome of the Balkan conflict before the first world war - and borders drawn in earlier times, together with authoritarian regimes or even dictatorships that are responsible for extremely serious human rights violations, now lead to a situation in which, were we still living in the Europe of the past, we would virtually be in a state of war, in which new borders were drawn as a consequence of people being driven out, of the unspeakable sacrifice of innocent lives, of the destruction of intrinsic values.
Sadly we saw all that again in Bosnia.
But the battle would be fought to the bitter end.
That was the European logic of the past, which had fatal consequences.
For as a rule these wars are internationalised by the side that is in danger of losing.
As a rule civil wars logically tend to spread, with the result that the regional powers very quickly become involved and with the result that in the end quite different conflicts enter into play in the region and large and powerful states, which also have their own particular history and conflicts of interest that have not yet been resolved, border conflicts, become directly involved.
What that means is the threat of a major Balkan war.
Europe cannot allow that to happen.
It would be a reversion to the past and it is not just a question of the destruction of intrinsic values, not just of unspeakable misery, it is also a question of the destruction of the European security system and of integration.
We must not forget that.
That is why there is no alternative to a process of stabilisation.
I do however ask myself whether Europe is in fact strong enough even to settle its own internal affairs.
Quite obviously it is not strong enough yet.
These include conflict prevention, a most important aspect.
To put it in non-technical terms, what will the consequence of these Balkan wars actually be?
In practice it will be that the European Union has to take on responsibility in some form for the entire region.
After all, that is what we are now seeing in Bosnia.
Without the detailed work done by the High Representative, without the presence of the allied troops, without the civilian activities, without the EU High Representative's assumption of responsibility, we would be back in a situation of confrontation again there or even of bloody conflict.
But for us Europeans that means we must find answers - and that is something we must think through properly, not today but at some point.
A first very full, very open and, in my view, important discussion of precisely these questions was held at the foreign ministers' dinner at the Vienna European Council.
What kind of long-term political strategy can be found to resolve these conflicts that will not lead to war, to expulsions, to mass violence and the trampling of human rights?
We will have to find an answer to this quickly.
I am firmly in favour of our making greater efforts in relation to Russia in this connection.
I do not find Russia's current attitude in the UN Security Council very constructive because basically it is still founded on the old fixed idea of a confrontation between one superpower and another superpower, America.
Russia would have a great opportunity before it today if it decided to play a constructive role; but unfortunately it is not grasping it.
We are trying to make progress here through a constructive dialogue with Russia and an open discussion of all the issues.
But we consider it extremely important, and the foreign ministers agreed on this, to formulate a central strategy, which cannot, however, be regarded as the conventional kind of assistance, as Russia is too big to allow us to talk in terms of assistance; it is a far too important, central partner in terms of European security, European stability.
But we do give absolute priority to developing a common strategy here.
That is not inconsistent - and I thank all those who pointed this out - with considering the problems arising in the Mediterranean.
I was recently visited by Foreign Minister Scharon; President Arafat will come next.
The Commission will be visiting the Middle East in February.
That is the second visit and it will encompass not just the question of North Africa but indeed also the Middle East peace process.
This is after all the second neighbouring region, even if the European Union neither can nor wants to take over the role of the United States there.
But the more progress is made with the peace process - and I really cannot see any better alternative to this peace process - the more all the parties concerned in the Middle East will realise that as regions we are neighbours.
What role the European Union will then actually play, in regard to underpinning this process, is another aspect to which we will direct our attention when we continue the Barcelona process in Stuttgart.
Here too it would be damaging to posit any conflict between eastern enlargement and the issues of the south.
We want Europe!
And by its nature Europe will be looking at different interests than, for instance, Germany or Spain, to give examples of geographically different positions.
We have common interests.
The interests of Europe are common interests and as such they must be brought to bear.
Let me now give a very brief, summary reply to a number of points I find most interesting.
There is no doubt at all that Germany's political approach is a European one.
The same is true of the new German Government's political approach.
We are following a line of continuity with the preceding German governments and in the light of its national interests Germany would lose out a great deal if we changed that approach in any way.
If we still regard the concept of national interests as at all in keeping with the times, all I can say for the German Government is that the European integration process takes first place in our national interests.
So it was in the past, and so it is now, for the change in the political balance in the German Bundestag has not brought any change in our interests.
Under the new government, Germany will continue its commitment to Europe.
Applause
Let me make it quite clear: what I have presented here is the approach of the German Government and the German Chancellor.
Anyone who was present at the discussion between the German Chancellor and the Commission will emphatically confirm that.
There are no changes here.
The German Government is united in maintaining the same position.
This whole reform project we are about to embark on is not a question of bookkeeping.
So let me explain the German position to you once again in unequivocal terms.
We must make the Union capable of enlargement.
The next historic step after the introduction of the euro will be enlargement of the European Union.
Just consider the implications if the European Union remained a Union just for western Europe after the end of the cold war.
That would be a historical failure without parallel and the soul of Europe, the idea of integration, would atrophy.
Quite apart from that, it would be a historical injustice of the first order vis-à-vis the Central and Eastern European applicant states.
So we must now do our utmost to make progress with that step.
The second great historical challenge facing us is to make the European Union into a political entity.
Personally I do not believe that we can act as an economic and financial 'global player', as it is called in modern parlance, on the world stage if at the same time our political structures operate in a dimension that, compared to what we have now achieved in monetary policy, is - to put it rather bluntly - more reminiscent of a local stage.
Applause
That will not do Europe any good, nor for that matter will it do the stability of our currency any good.
That is why I am firmly convinced that our second important historical challenge is to strengthen the European institutions.
In my view democracy always also implies a strengthening of democracy.
That is a key point.
Consider this: much of what is now presented so to speak as German strategy - I will be coming back to that in a moment - is to do with the fact that our national public opinion feels there is a lack of legitimacy; here I am only speaking for our national public opinion.
We need to look at that very carefully if we want to develop the European institutions further, which means also to make them more democratic as institutions.
So we must now meet these two central challenges.
How can we do so?
We can do so through the vision of Europe as a political entity.
It can become a larger and stronger political entity if we get on with the homework that now awaits us.
After all, the Cardiff Council set March as the date for the special summit above all because of three added factors.
The Amsterdam Treaty is to enter into force and will intensify the pressure for reform, not just the pressure to enhance the EU's ability to act.
The European elections will be taking place in June.
But the European Parliament must also be able to play its part in implementing the Agenda 2000 reforms.
That also requires budgetary decisions before the end of the year, with the new approach to areas eligible for aid and suchlike.
In that respect, therefore, this date was set deliberately.
But within the context of this historical challenge, which is enlargement and at the same time the development of a political entity, we must also ensure that subsequent presidencies can tackle the institutional reforms, in order to use the window of time that we have.
Under what are for us very difficult conditions - we only recently came into office, which has some implications for the business of Europe - the German Government declared itself prepared to make Agenda 2000 the focus of our presidency and to reach agreement at the special summit in March.
I sometimes try to imagine what would happen if this failed.
Early in the morning on 26/27 March the Heads of State or Government would appear before the people and declare failure.
This time that would have immediate repercussions on stock market prices.
It would not simply be a decision, as it would have in the past when a summit happened to fail.
The date of 1 January 1999 has created a new dimension and thereby also a new responsibility.
I think we are all aware of that responsibility.
It can only succeed - and now I am coming to the age-old question of money - if everyone is prepared to look beyond their national interests, which are quite legitimate - in Germany too - and to set aside the conflicts between national interests in Europe for the sake of the compromise represented by integration.
So it can only succeed if everyone, on an even-handed basis, takes a substantial step away from their national interests.
We want an even-handed solution and, as I said in my earlier statement, we cannot allow the south, for instance, to have to pay for eastern enlargement.
That would be absurd.
Southern enlargement - as also the accession of Ireland - was and is a success story, economically, socially, but also in terms of democracy and security policy; it is one that we will and must now repeat with enlargement to the east.
I am old enough to remember the military coup in Greece.
I remember the military dictatorships in Spain and Portugal.
I remember very well the discussions about whether or not there was a military coup in Italy in the 1970s.
That is all past history.
European integration is a success story, and we must repeat it, we must commit ourselves to that!
Applause
The role that Germany plays also reflects our economic strength, and that should be a cause to rejoice rather than complain.
We know what we owe to Europe, from many points of view, not just in material terms but also in political and cultural terms against the background of our history.
The new German Government knows that too and will therefore adhere to its commitment to Europe.
I have nothing to lose at all by saying that when I was in opposition I supported the major part of the policy pursued in these areas, especially Chancellor Kohl's European policy, even if I criticised one or other aspect of it.
I consider that nothing unusual; in my view, having convictions about something is part of the parliamentary process, especially when historic issues are at stake.
My group in the German Bundestag was the first in the last legislative term to call for the Europe of 11, for the accession of Italy, at a time when others, like Chancellor Kohl, were far from prepared to do so.
The 3.0 debate and all that lay behind it were things we criticised too.
So I will say quite openly that I have nothing to make up for here nor am I afraid to thank Helmut Kohl; he was rightly appointed a freeman of Europe at the European Council in Vienna.
It is only that since Amsterdam Germany has no longer played the right role.
In Amsterdam the Federal Republic of Germany put on the brakes for the first time.
Heckling
We must not forget that.
And the coalition - here I am not talking about internal politics but about European politics - went into the elections with a position that was no longer entirely consistent, as you know better than I do.
That position was: eastern enlargement as quickly as possible, Germany wants to pay less, and the German farmers should get more.
That does not tally with the laws of logic in this world.
That is why we must now define a clear and consistent German position, and that is what I have done today on behalf of the German Government.
We certainly do not want to stop being a net contributor.
We have no quarrel with the fact that there are some countries that are ahead and then there are the poorer countries.
But it is obvious that imbalances have crept into the system and that they need correcting.
In terms of domestic politics, it is difficult for a German politician to explain why countries that obtain a higher per capita income thanks to their GNP than we do should pay little or even pay no net contribution at all.
These are of course all things that play a part in domestic politics.
I need not tell that to my German colleagues, but let me point out the following to other Members: because of the special situation in West Germany after the second world war, Germany's European policy was basically unquestioned and was determined solely by the politicians - until Maastricht.
Maastricht changed all that.
In future, every German government will have to rally the people behind it, as in all your countries, in all your own democracies.
That used to be a matter of course and was not considered particularly noteworthy, as my German colleagues know only too well, but all that has changed since Maastricht.
That is why the net contributor debate does of course also have a domestic dimension, which must not be forgotten and which I regard as entirely legitimate.
But for us the crucial problem is how we can prepare the EU structures for enlargement.
I am less concerned about the actual situation, which clearly needs rectifying, than about the fact that if we leave the existing structures as they stand, we will of course come up against imbalances in the burden-sharing in regard to enlargement, which will quite simply no longer be acceptable or defensible.
Since I am in favour of enlargement, I believe we need this situation to be rectified too.
I think that is politically justified and certainly not a sign of anti-Europeanism or selfish nationalism; quite the reverse.
This is a central aspect of the necessary structural reforms.
If we are to get through with Agenda 2000, we will have to present it in all its aspects; it encompasses five separate packages.
We will have to reach a compromise on the question of real constancy, budgetary constancy.
There are five different interpretations, but I believe we will find a compromise there.
Yesterday, the German finance minister said the EU budget must not grow faster than the national budgets.
That is a point that will certainly be taken seriously in the discussions.
Naturally we are also very concerned about the question of the budgetary structure.
As was pointed out earlier, although 80 % of the territory of the European Union is rural, we must not forget that it is not 80 % of our population that lives in these rural areas.
The second point that will arise in this connection is the common agricultural policy.
The Commission has submitted its CAP proposals.
Let me just add another word on the question of the renationalisation of agricultural policy.
Cofinancing does not imply the renationalisation of agricultural policy.
If it did, the German Government would regard that as a mistake.
We do not want to see agricultural policy renationalised or even partly renationalised.
So, cofinancing is a question of the national contribution.
The political decision is taken at Brussels.
It is important to remember that.
That precludes any renationalisation.
In any case we only want it in relation to direct income supports.
That is the second important point.
And here we consider it urgently necessary to have national financial contributions, in view also of the future European Union, the enlarged European Union, and the future of the agricultural market.
Over and above that, let us please have no illusions.
The WTO negotiations in the year 2002 will create an enormous pressure for adjustment, as every agricultural politician knows.
Without this reform, the current disputes about bananas or hormones in meat will seem nothing compared to what we will be faced with, for many of the agricultural subsidies we have now simply do not come within the scope of the WTO.
So there, too, we will face an enormous pressure for reform.
All three models that the Commission has proposed for the common agricultural policy must remain open to discussion.
We have to discuss them.
National preferences differ.
And then there are the Structural Funds and the Cohesion Fund.
I know how important and how productive these resources are, but I think that here too a contribution is needed and that special problems, such as those facing Portugal in relation to the Structural Funds, will need to be considered.
I also believe we will have to carefully assess and consider the Spanish situation.
We are looking towards an even-handed solution.
But there is no doubt that an even-handed solution also covers the rebate, the UK rebate, and, in the final analysis - and this is the fifth aspect involved, and one to which not only Germany but, as the presidency's trip showed, the Netherlands and other net contributors also attach very great importance - this issue will also have to be resolved.
We want to produce a global package, which will be anything but easy.
At the European Council in Vienna, which took place at the historical site of the Vienna Congress in the Hofburg, the Portuguese prime minister pointed out that when Talleyrand was asked how long the Vienna Congress had lasted he replied 'the last fifteen minutes'.
That will be equally true of the European Council, the special Council.
Unfortunately, the Member who quoted Goethe is no longer in the House.
He quoted Goethe's last words, on his death bed.
I am not sure this is a suitable Goethe quote and whether he knew that.
The words 'Mehr Licht, mehr Licht ' (more light, more light!) can be interpreted in two ways.
Either this greatest of German poets felt that darkness was descending around him, or he was reverting to the dialect of Frankfurt in his final moments.
Some people seriously interpreted what he wanted to say as: 'mer licht so schlecht ', 'I feel so bad'.
But if we want to quote Goethe, we really could do better, for Goethe was a European through and through and he was pro-Europe.
He would have no truck at all with nationalism.
I think that is the real Goethe whom we should quote.
Mr Hänsch, I warmly thank you for your support in regard to the settlement of the Kosovo conflict and would say to the European Parliament: it is important that we cooperate very closely.
The trilogue debate with Mr Verheugen will be continuing tomorrow.
During that debate a number of questions that you have raised will be considered in more depth.
We want a very close dialogue, in order to strengthen the European Parliament but also to ensure that it plays an active role in tackling the great tasks that face us.
The European Parliament must play a central role here.
Mr Brok, allow me to point out one thing, which is something I also want to say to certain colleagues.
I know how difficult it is to be in opposition; I myself was in that position long enough.
But to be in opposition also means to attack very intelligently and make it difficult for the government to find a reply.
To the accusation that all we have managed to do after 12 days of presidency is to make announcements, I would reply: yes, if I could do more than that after 12 days I would not be in politics, I would be a miracle worker and then I would be in the wrong job, I should be founding a church or something.
Laughter
But who indeed can perform miracles?
So with the best will in the world, all one can do in 12 days is to state what one is prepared to do and then to be judged by it later.
And I can see that the opposition has a very high opinion of us and is expecting a great deal of us.
But for Mr Brok - who openly thanked Mr Kohl, as I too have done several times - to accuse us of trying to divert attention at the Cologne summit from our own national failures in employment market policy a few days before the European elections, means he is obviously unintentionally revealing a strategy of the preceding government, for we were not the ones to set all these deadlines.
It was not the new German Government that did this; we were not able to do so and nor did the opposition hypnotise the previous government into doing so.
With the best will in the world, we were not able to do so.
It was the Luxembourg summit that decided this, it was Vienna, which followed, that was responsible for no progress being made.
These are not accusations that can seriously be levelled at the new German Government, because we have not been in office nearly long enough.
In the interests of close cooperation we should refrain from transparent polemics of this kind, which, for the rest, do little to help solve the problems facing us.
The areas of general consensus are more important.
In conclusion let me emphasise once again what one Member said about Germany's role.
I repeat that we know we will remain a net contributor.
There will be no German disengagement here.
That would be absurd and wrong given our interests.
It is in our interest to ensure that Europe develops into a stronger political entity.
The fact that the Deutschmark became integrated in the euro is not a matter of course, given its significance as a national currency, a significance that goes far beyond what a national currency normally signifies, and not just for the West Germans but also and in particular for our East German compatriots since unification in 1989/1990.
It is a step that was taken with the broad assent of the German Bundestag , and it is also binding upon the new German Government.
We believe that during the German Presidency we have an obligation to make the European Union more capable of enlargement, to combat unemployment, to take a first step towards making progress with institutional reforms, to help strengthen democracy in Europe and, in general, to turn the European Union into a real political entity, with the ultimate aim of full integration.
Applause
