Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, I would like to start by pointing out once again that nearly the entire PPE Group was present at the time when the President-in-Office of the Council spoke and that he received our full applause, as also the applause of the German Christian Democrats, because we too will support him in what he said - provided he also acts on it.
That is why the comment made from up there was not fair and when I look at the Socialist benches all I can say is there are four more of them here than of us, which is not such a great feat.
To return to our debate, I just want to go into one point, the question of Kosovo.
After the inglorious outcome of the negotiations between Holbrooke and Milosevic I said that the day is drawing near when the west will reproach the Kosovo Albanians for not finally giving in.
What are the facts of the situation in Kosovo now?
The Serbian troops who were initially withdrawn have long since returned.
The Serbian police in Kosovo are armed to the hilt.
Attacks targeted at Albanian villages and civilians are commonplace.
The reactions to these Serbian acts of terrorism are the desperate and not always acceptable actions of the KLA, but they are above all a sign of the growing impotence of the Albanians and their cries for help.
Where is that step in a political direction you referred to a moment ago?
Even in October 1998 it became clear that Milosevic did not want a political settlement.
He wants to ethnically cleanse Kosovo and change the balance of forces between Albanians and Serbs in favour of the Serbs.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, my dear Daniel Cohn-Bendit, he is pursuing that line with great success.
There are refugees wherever we look, not just in the forests, not just in Albania, not just in Macedonia.
There are refugees from Kosovo in Bosnia too, and they come to Germany and Italy in any case!
The OSCE observer mission is a joke and cannot be successful.
We should withdraw these observers, otherwise news about the mortal danger these gentlemen are facing will dominate the media, instead of the misery and distress of the Albanians, whose lives have been in danger for nine whole years.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you said that the extraction force in Macedonia is there to protect these OSCE observers, I noted that you are not entirely indifferent to the whole business.
For surely it must sound like a mockery to the people down there who have been suffering under the Serbian apartheid system for nine years.
These troops are not there to protect the Albanian civilians but to protect the few OSCE observers who would basically be better advised to go back where they came from, back home.
For there is nothing they can do where they are.
We know that a few Serbian soldiers have now been taken prisoner by the Albanians.
But what has world public opinion been doing for the past nine years?
Did it cry out when Albanians were taken prisoner every day, when Albanians were tortured every day?
I question the relative manner in which these matters are currently being discussed.
In the last few months the Contact Group has made no contact whatsoever.
So I do urge you to withdraw the OSCE observers and let an international force that includes Russian troops see to establishing peace in Kosovo, so as finally to give a chance to an interim political solution that can lead to a real solution in the region.
Otherwise we will have to go on and on hearing these same daily media reports.
