Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of my group, I should like to fully endorse the picture presented and the views expressed by the presidency and the Commission on this matter.
Our biggest problem is, of course, that for peace we need partners, but that we still only have two opponents who are hardly prepared to become real partners.
It is also difficult to become a partner under pressure, but we have no alternative other than to exert this pressure on both the Serbian and the Kosovar-Albanian sides.
As far as the Serbian side is concerned, and there is no need to waste words in passingmoral judgement on Milosevic and other Serb leaders, I just have one concern - and I do not know whether the presidency would like to comment on this - which is that the actions, in themselves perfectly understandable, of the High Representative Carlos Westendorp with regard to Republika Srpska, by being taken at this particular time, just a few days before the Conference reconvenes in Rambouillet, might harden the resolve of the Serbian side.
I am thinking here of the decision made in Brcko, but even more of the decisions on staffing concerning Poplasen, which ultimately also led to Dodic's resignation, who is of course to some extent our 'ally' on the Serbian side in Republika Srpska.
That is a question I am asking myself.
I hope that this has been well coordinated and well thought out.
As far as the Kosovar-Albanian side is concerned, I should like once again to say loudly and clearly here that all of us who hold talks with liberation movements or resistance movements, whether it is the Kurds on the one hand or the Kosovar Albanians on the other, have a duty to insist that they adopt a peaceful, cooperative position, a position on the basis of which a compromise can be reached.
I believe - as the Commissioner has also said - that some things have already started to happen: on the KLA side too, forces which are more willing to compromise have come to the fore, and I still say that if these resistance movements want the solidarity and support of the international community, then they too must be prepared to cooperate and compromise.
The final point which I should like to underline clearly once again, and which I would ask to be taken into account in the position we adopt at the talks in Rambouillet, is as follows: without military back-up, the whole initiative does not make any sense, and it will be years - as we have of course also seen in Bosnia - before a real solution is reached here.
Please, stand firm where the military back-up for peace is concerned!
