Mr President, what we are really doing today is holding a security debate in two blocks.
In the first block I would like to look at the problem of drugs.
There is a simple reason for this: currently more than 5 million young people in the European Union are taking synthetic drugs.
Overall, it is clear from all the reports that drug consumption and the trade in drugs are unfortunately increasing spectacularly.
We need effective anti-drugs strategies in the European Union, but our problem here is that because we try to do so many different things as part of our strategies people do not always really know what is going on.
The anti-drugs strategies come under three pillars; we have several action plans and a variety of reports on the drugs problem.
We urgently need to adopt a single position and recognisable strategies.
I would like to address a number of points which I believe are essential.
Firstly, we should send out a signal by trying where possible not to talk about drugs strategies but about anti-drugs strategies.
This also applies to all reports on the subject.
Secondly, we must support what we have decided here in the long term, in other words in future there must still be no liberalisation or legalisation of the production, sale or consumption of drugs.
The future of the European Union must not be one where hashish is sold in tobacconists and heroin is given on prescription.
This must never become a reality for us.
Thirdly, we must remove ideology from our drugs debate.
We need pragmatic, effective solutions ranging from prevention through repression to support for addicts.
However, I think that we should concentrate our prevention efforts on schools, because there we can reach all the young people of the European Union.
I would propose yet again that we should promote voluntary measures, and the Commissioner has also kindly promised support here.
So schools in Europe should be declared drug-free zones on a voluntary basis.
Cooperation with the chemicals industry, for example in combating precursors, should be improved and increased.
With regard to repression, the aim must be to extend Europol, support the police, promote judicial cooperation and generally to introduce help for addicts.
Finally, Europe must be seen in all its strategies to be a Community of security.
I have no fears in this respect when I look at reports such as those by Mr Nassauer and Mr Wiebenga.
These call for strong measures and I am hoping for further strong measures at the Tampere summit.
