Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to express my particular thanks to the rapporteur, Mrs Oomen-Ruijten, a member of my group, for presenting the report and for her careful work.
For many Members, including some in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, the limit values put forward by the rapporteur for reducing emissions of certain pollutants from large combustion plants up to the year 2005 went too far.
We are hearing similar arguments in the discussion on car exhaust gases.
It is my impression that the technology is available to achieve these values.
Of course, it requires a considerable financial effort.
That is also why it is so important for us to promote, through the LIFE programme, the development of and scope for using modern technology which is able to achieve these aims and these limit values.
Who else, if not the European Parliament, would already be fighting to push through ambitious targets to reduce air pollution?
Up to now, it has been thanks entirely to the European Parliament that values and aims have been achieved which were frequently presented as being unattainable in the time available.
Mr Linkohr, you are familiar with the car debate.
Ladies and gentlemen, please do not forget that the Amsterdam Treaty enters into force on 1 May 1999.
Then we will also be consulted on this proposal under the codecision procedure, and will therefore have the possibility of pushing through not only what are admittedly quite ambitious demands for limit values for both sulphur dioxide and nitrogen oxide, but also demands to include old plants, which have hitherto been ignored and which present a particularly urgent problem.
I would ask you to bear in mind that this is the first reading.
We shall then see how the Council responds, and in the second reading we will have to discuss where we go from there.
In my view, we should already be making proposals which are technically feasible, and then later we will have to calculate what goals we can achieve.
