Thank you Mr President.
With all due respect, Sir Leon, we have to discuss this now, and when you say that there is no reason for consumers to panic because we have the ban, then I have to say that we are on the brink of lifting the ban and, as Mrs Mann said, this is undoubtedly about the different ways of life in America and Europe.
However, it is also about the huge interests of hormone producers and users here in Europe, Mr Kittelmann, as is apparent from your speech and the softly-softly manner in which it was made.
In fact, we now have exactly what you wanted: no emotion, but the scientific proof - and, as requested, this is qualitative not quantitative - that the use of hormones is harmful, that they pose a risk to health, that they are carcinogenic and that they cause puberty to begin prematurely in girls; I am just translating what it says here.
This is what we have repeatedly stated and pointed out in the past: the use of sex hormones disturbs the hormonal balance in children at this particularly sensitive time.
Sir Leon, consumer protection must take priority here, and this is not a legal issue; the legal issue should take second place to consumer protection and preventing the public from harm.
Neither, Mr Mulder, is it about not complying with WTO rules and negotiated agreements.
We want very much to comply with them, but we need to have some input into them and we need to develop them further where dispute settlement is concerned, as well as in the social and environmental fields and in the fields of health and culture.
Sir Leon, we have seen that when dubious substances of this kind are used, the floodgates are opened, including for illegal use.
In fact we can see it now with the samples which the Commission has taken that banned hormones are being used in the USA, and that it is not true that the meat which comes here is hormone-free.
That means that if we were to lift this hormone ban, we would have to authorise the use of hormones here, with all their adverse consequences.
Side-effects might be acceptable where medicines are concerned, Sir Leon, but with food there should be no such side-effects, and here the burden of proof needs to be reversed so that those who wish to produce and use these substances have to prove that they are harmless.
That is what we should say in the WTO negotiations, and we should raise the issue of our European way of life and ensure that we are able to keep it.
