Mr President, listening to the arguments put forward in these two last speeches, I feel as if I have gone back in time and am reminded of our very first discussions on liberalising telecommunications services.
The same fears were voiced then, although the dread scenario never came about.
On the question of a universal service, we did describe certain financial instruments that the Member States would be authorised to use, including in the telecommunications sector.
But a universal service is, for the most part, being provided without recourse to these instruments, solely on the basis of the economic laws naturally governing the operation of communications systems.
These laws are clearly so alien to some Members and political groupings in this House that anguish grips them at every turn.
Let me be perfectly clear on this, Mrs Moreau.
Provided a market functions according to rules - and these can and should be laid down as part of a political process - there is no reason for an anti-social climate to arise.
On the contrary, if that market is run according to the rules which we ourselves set - and I am a logical man - the consequences certainly need not in any sense be socially damaging.
Just consider prices in the telephony sector.
Thank goodness we say 'prices' and not 'tariffs' nowadays.
Because of competition - in other words, thanks to the market - by the end of this year we shall probably have prices that are every bit as favourable as in the USA.
Ordinary communications, together with access to the Internet and other information sources, will be readily affordable.
That is social policy at its best.
The system is perfectly straightforward.
It is no longer a matter of measuring need against yardsticks, with large bureaucracies doling out money at great administrative expense - and at the risk of fraud - to those who fit the criteria.
Today it is possible, Mrs Moreau, to telephone free of charge.
You need not pay anything at all; you can ring me up whenever you like - but not at night, please.
What is more, Mr President, this is the second time that I have been up and active at unearthly hours in this Chamber.
I would ask you to take note that I shall be looking at the possibility of establishing a trade union for Commissioners.
Things cannot go on like this.
We are being forced to work under inhuman working conditions.
My human dignity is at stake, Mrs Moreau.
As to your questions, Madam, I really cannot answer them, unfortunately, and I will tell you why.
You understandably raised these issues because you felt the time had come for plain speaking.
The trouble is, I have not reached any final conclusions yet myself.
You are not happy with the studies that were carried out because the results do not match your particular vision, but there is not much I can do about that.
We aimed to base our research on information from all postal operators around the Union, but I will be frank with you: sadly, not all of them provided us with the necessary information.
Heckling: It was not delivered!
That may well be so.
In any event, I am still working on my own final position, which will be submitted to the Commission at a meeting in about two weeks' time.
At that meeting, there will be a general policy discussion and I will endeavour to gather the views of my colleagues on the various issues.
Then, and only then, will I be in a position to indicate provisionally where we intend to go in some of these areas.
There can be no question of my coming out with a Commission position as such today.
What I can say, wearing a purely personal hat, is that we shall be modelling our approach to the universal service requirement on the method which has been applied in the telecommunications sector.
The principle is to provide a kind of safety net, if colleagues can follow my drift.
Although there will be no obligation, it will be made available for Member States if they feel the need to use it.
I myself do not see the need for such a provision, but so be it.
We are in the habit of taking seriously even unjustified fears, and will probably be making a proposal along these lines - or I shall be, at any rate.
You can therefore go to bed with a calm conscience.
Let us hope, however, that the postal services people will soon be up and about.
