Mr President, I have a question for Commissioner Fischler: you said to Mr Happart that his proposals would run counter to the Berlin strategy.
Are you paying him a compliment, or can it be that you are happy with Berlin?
I am becoming rather confused, because in his report Mr Happart did in fact pin his hopes on Agenda 2000 being implemented.
It seems to me that the hopes which Mr Happart expressed in his report have not been realised.
In this report on prices, he is still referring to the 1992 reform, and you are well aware - and have said so yourself in your documents and reports on Agenda 2000 - that the 1992 reform led to cases of severe injustice and showed a serious failure to take due account of employment and the environment.
You know that most of the money goes to well-situated production areas and not to less-favoured areas.
You know that most of the money goes to larger holdings and that some large holdings have the premiums paid straight into a time deposit account, because the prices and their advanced stage of rationalisation mean that they can manage without them.
You know that there are premiums in the maize sector which have no environmental conditions attached.
You know that pasture land is also one of the economically marginalised areas.
None of this was rectified in Berlin.
That is why I really must take it as a compliment when you say that it runs counter to Berlin.
We should actually start work straight away on developing a new strategy for safeguarding agriculture, not least on the regional market.
Time does not allow me to say any more on this, but you are familiar with my views.
I should also like to comment on sales promotion.
Here I believe, Commissioner Fischler, that we must not allow sales promotion to become export subsidies by the back door; this must be genuine sales promotion.
I think that the internal market should also be taken into account here, which means making money available on both sides.
You said that you were against regulating the pig market, Mr Fischler.
I fully agree with you that we should not intervene here, but if intervention is not wanted here, then why are we keeping it in the other markets?
If it works so well there, then we should have it in the pig market too.
I see that you are not pleased.
That makes me very happy.
