Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, you have just heard from the President that today we are considering the second reading on product liability.
Let me trace its history.
All of us in this Parliament - unanimously, I believe - said here in November 1997, following the BSE affair - and the way it dealt with BSE has been one of Parliament's major successes - that product liability needs to be amended so that in future we can deal with the damage caused by BSE.
Thereupon the Commission made a proposal that integrates and includes primary agricultural products.
That was a welcome development.
However, Mr Monti, it was the least you could do.
I have always told you in the past that you pursed your lips but did not whistle!
I criticise you for that.
Were you not at present a member of the Commission but still, shall we say, working in a different capacity, then I would say to you today that what you have done seems almost to date from the stone age.
So I will not say it.
In the Committee on the Environment we have now added eight amendments for the second reading of the common position.
Eight amendments is not very many.
As rapporteur, I have tried to be very moderate and have only tabled those amendments that obtained a majority at the first reading and that, in my view, could also bring about a compromise in other parts of the House.
There are of course people in this House and outside it who say: we do not want any amendments.
Let us accept this proposal as it stands!
We should accept the Commission proposal, the common position, as it stands.
My reply to these people and to the Members who said this at first reading is that Parliament should be consistent.
Given that we said we need changes in connection with BSE, then if we are to be logical we must also cover the case of people who have contracted the new form, the new variant of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease.
We all know that the incubation period can last from 10 to 20 years.
So, in order to be consistent, the Committee on the Environment has extended the period of enforcement of the rights conferred upon the injured person to 20 years in the case of a hidden defect - which is all we are talking about here - instead of 10 years.
Anyone who contracted Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease would never be able to claim damages because that person or the family may not find out about the disease for more than 10 years after it had been contracted.
We have also raised the amount of the total liability for damage from ECU 70 million to ECU 140 million and have left this up to the Member States.
That is not so very drastic either and it should be possible to reach a compromise on it in this House.
Some of you, including Mr Monti, have said that this legislation is being reviewed in any case.
After all, a green paper is due by 1 January 2000.
But even when the Commission was still more able to act than it is now, I doubted whether you could produce that green paper on time.
Now I am convinced and we all know that it cannot be done by 1 January 2000.
You yourself said, on behalf of the Commission, that you would not be embarking on any new projects, which certainly also means no new legislation.
The first thing a new Commission does will not be to produce a green paper.
Even if we got a green paper, it would take two or three, or even four or five years for the legislation to come along.
Surely that cannot be what we want!
Nor could we accept it.
Let me now address a few of the Members, and I am looking in particular at the PPE Group, because Mrs Grossetête, who like myself is a member of the Committee on the Environment, said at first reading that people do not want this in the first place and that I would be upsetting all manner of things with this amendment.
In fact it was particularly with the PPE Group in mind that I totally dropped the question of the reversal of the burden of proof, for example, and questions relating to the burden of proof.
So my request to you, Mrs Grossetête, is to reconsider your position on these two amendments on the expiry date and the amount of liability for damage; for let me tell you that people definitely want us to attend to their personal, their very personal welfare, and not just before the European elections but quite generally!
That is what we have tried to do in the Committee on the Environment, which is responsible for consumer protection and health policy.
We have tried to do so by tabling eight amendments, some of which were taken over from the members of the PPE Group and concern the definition and revision of the legislation.
By means of these amendments we have extended the expiry date and changed the amount of liability for damage.
None of this will bankrupt anyone in the European Union.
There will however be potential damage, and not just in the case of contaminated stored blood which can cause AIDS; that is something I am not discussing at all, I am sticking to primary products here.
In cases of Creutzfeldt-Jakob, we are giving the public security.
I would hope that these amendments will never be needed because nobody will fall ill.
But if that should be the case after all, then the people of the European Union are entitled to expect us to create a proper legal basis for product liability and for their claims to damages.
I think we are doing no more and no less here with these amendments.
I do not believe we are being over-ambitious or over-demanding.
I ask you to support these amendments at second reading so that we can endeavour to achieve a sensible solution in the codecision procedure with the Council.
