Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioners, the effects of the basic agreement on the Agenda 2000 agricultural reform on agriculture in the European Union and on farm incomes are less negative than the original Commission proposals since the price reductions are lower for cereals, beef and veal.
You know that.
With the introduction of rural development measures and the strengthening of the accompanying measures that have existed since the 1992 reform, we have taken a further step towards a global agricultural policy for rural areas.
In my view the following aspects of this agricultural reform give rise to considerable doubts.
The European agricultural model sketched out at the Cork conference has only been implemented in fragmentary form.
While the measures relating to market organisations, price reductions and so forth are to be applied on a strictly central basis, the implementation of most rural development measures will be left to the discretion of the Member States.
Or if you like, it will be a purely political decision.
Why?
The rural development measures are financed as non-compulsory expenditure under Category 1.
The ceiling of EUR 4.3 billion a year can be regarded on the one hand as safeguarding rural development appropriations but on the other hand there is the risk that because the Member States would have to cofinance these measures they will not apply them or will do so only to a limited extent.
Here I am thinking, for instance, of measure 2078, concerning environmentally compatible farming.
The direct compensation payments intended to offset the price reductions are not sufficient to make up for income losses.
The additional expenditure for rural development measures is discretionary in terms of amount and use and is no substitute for the loss of purchasing power resulting from the price reductions.
The Commission was requested to submit an interim report on most of the market organisation regulations in the year 2002.
We will see how things turn out.
We greet the postponement of the reduction in milk prices to the year 2005, primarily for reasons of economy, with a certain joy.
But it will not be nearly enough and we will still have a quota up to the year 2008.
That is something that we can in fact live with quite easily and which at least enables us to offer our farmers some security, production security, in this area.
I believe that in addition to optional set-aside, that is the key result we in Parliament have managed to achieve.
