Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, Mr Morris certainly deserves an answer to his question.
But allow me first of all, Mr President-in-Office, Commissioner, to express my group's full support for the line you have taken here today.
My group firmly believes that the United Nations must be involved or brought back into the process.
I was also very pleased, Mr President-in-Office, to hear the remarks you made concerning the fundamental relationship between NATO and the UN.
Some people believe that NATO could become the new world or regional police force, and perhaps see a basis for this in the text of NATO's Washington declaration.
We believe, however, that only the United Nations can play the role of world police and we must do everything we can to reform the United Nations - since reforms are needed - so that it can really play this role well.
Secondly, as already mentioned, the United Nations must play a crucial role in the peace process that now needs to begin.
I support you on this point too, Mr President-in-Office.
It must and can only play this role if it can act effectively.
For this reason Milosevic's 'offer' to admit an unarmed United Nations force must of course be rejected.
We have already had the experience of sending armed troops into Bosnia, where Milosevic or certain Serbian troops managed to make the United Nations look ridiculous because they had to stand by and watch massacres taking place.
We need the United Nations forces to be deployed effectively.
Furthermore, even in this House some people have said that we could maintain or achieve peace in Europe without Russia, perhaps even if Russia were snubbed.
This is not possible, nor would it make sense.
I therefore agree fully with the view which you expressed, Mr President-in-Office, and also the Commissioner.
We must bring Russia back on board and we must succeed in persuading Russia to return to a cooperative approach.
This is absolutely crucial, not just in the Balkans but in general for the peace process in Europe.
The third point concerns the refugees.
Winter comes more quickly than we think.
If the expulsions continue there will be a massive problem.
I do not know whether everyone is well prepared, whether coordination between the individual institutions functions properly.
But if we do not want to have another disaster - with the accommodation of refugees next winter - we must do everything you said and we must further improve coordination.
I am pleased that Germany has increased its quota.
It may be necessary to further increase the quotas for all countries, although the principle must continue to be to help the refugees in the region if possible.
However, the burden with which particularly Macedonia (FYROM) and to some extent Albania have to cope should not be disproportionate.
My final point concerns the regional approach.
I believe that the regional approach we have been taking is no longer sufficient, and we must find a new one.
Development in Croatia is linked to that in Bosnia, Bosnia to Yugoslavia, Yugoslavia to Albania, Albania to Macedonia.
They must all - in my opinion at least - be brought together in a type of Balkan federation, but this can only work if the European Union offers strong political and economic incentives.
These can only work if Slovenia is also involved, and Slovenia has already requested privileges in its economic relations with these countries.
Bulgaria and Greece in particular should also be invited to help to implement this regional approach.
I believe in the regional approach, but ours was too weak, with too few positive incentives for these countries to cooperate.
This must change, and it must do so in the direction described by the Commissioner.
Clear support is required from this House.
Mr President-in-Office, you quoted Mitterrand as saying 'Nationalism is war!'.
Our reply must be: 'Europe is peace!'.
