Mr President, the crisis which has been brewing for months in the European Commission and which has now culminated in the resignation of the Commissioners has sent out a clearly visible and long overdue signal.
Brussels has its own Watergate, and conclusions now have to be drawn so that the crisis of confidence between the European Parliament and the Commission, between the public and the European Union in general, can be overcome.
The Commission crisis is not confined to that institution alone.
On the contrary, it is a crisis of the European Union.
To dispel it, we need short-term measures and lasting reforms.
One of the short-term requirements is the nomination of a new President of the Commission by the Member States, in Berlin if at all possible, and the Commissioners who were explicitly criticised in the Wise Men's report must not be part of a future Commission.
Among the lasting reforms are the earliest possible establishment by the Council of a procedure that will make it possible to call individual Commissioners to account in the event of misconduct, mismanagement and fraud.
The unavoidable tasks facing the European Union are completely divorced from present-day political reality.
The Treaty of Amsterdam already provides for considerable improvements in this respect.
These alone, however, will not suffice.
A procedure for calling individual Commissioners to account must be laid down at or before the next intergovernmental conference.
A sustained improvement is also required in the fight against fraud.
Eighty per cent of all EU fraud takes place in the individual Member States.
If that scandalous situation is to be remedied, we need more than just an independent Anti-Fraud Office; the European Court of Auditors must also be given wider powers.
It must be able to investigate cases of fraud at the scene of the crime, in cooperation with regional and national authorities and supreme courts.
Parliament's right of scrutiny must on no account be diluted.
The Wise Men's report was useful, but it should be completed by 20 April, and above all it should carry out an investigation at the level of officials.
It is unacceptable for this Commission to operate on the principle that Commissioners may come and go but mandarins are forever.
