Mr President, Commissioner, regardless of the outcome of the vote on the Agenda 2000 agricultural package and of the decision taken in the end by the Council of Ministers, I think it is clear that we expect - and must expect - European farmers to undergo enormous changes.
However, I have the impression that we are still doing too little both at national and European level to facilitate change and support the farmers through it.
Unfortunately, it is often the traditional farmers' associations who, in their indiscriminate rejection of reform, forget to draw the attention of their members to new opportunities in good time.
These new opportunities are contained in the Commission's agricultural reform package, despite all the tough measures it may contain.
For the majority of farmers in Europe - and these are the smaller farmers - the package of reforms is a step in the right direction, even if it is often lacking in vigour and is not sufficiently binding in terms of environmental and social criteria for aid.
Incidentally, it is the smaller farmers who have so far been most willing to accept change and to approach it positively.
But we often neglect them.
By way of comparison, I would point out the important and necessary measures taken by the Commission and the Member States in order to prepare companies and banks for the euro.
Companies and banks are not exactly helpless organisations.
Nevertheless, we have helped them.
Members of Parliament have now even received euro key-fobs from the Commission.
It would be much more important to launch a campaign to support farmers not only with practical matters such as adapting facilities and adjusting to change, but to lend them what we could perhaps call moral support.
It is sometimes easy to understand why farmers feel excluded from European politics and feel that they are always cap-in-hand outsiders.
We must also place much greater importance on farmers' non-output-related performance in terms of its image as a service and a job, and we must make the transition from price support to direct aid more palatable.
