Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me turn first to our institution.
Whether the Group of the European People's Party is currently represented by two or three people or whether there are ten of us present here when the public sees pictures of this important debate - whatever excuses we make - there will be criticism of the European Parliament.
We are always good at criticising the Commission and others, but we should also question our own behaviour in plenary.
Let me just say that at the outset.
For the rest Mr Poettering, who says such clever things, could take the names Schmidhuber and Bangemann as examples of other Commission appointments.
I find it incredible that at a time like this, when there is so much discussion about the future of Europe, the Group of the European People's Party and other groups are hardly present.
But that is their problem, not mine!
I would just like to offer the President-in-Office of the Council three small suggestions to help make the German Presidency as successful as he would wish.
First, the debate on finalities is an important one and should also give rise to a social debate.
But the European Union exists today and cannot just wait for the debate on finalities.
That is why we need a decision in Cologne, a resolution, so that when we have another intergovernmental conference, in 2001, an EU charter of fundamental rights is adopted.
There cannot be a new intergovernmental conference without a new charter of fundamental rights, otherwise Europe cannot and will not be seen to be more open.
Secondly, it is dangerous for the German Presidency - for whatever reasons - to say not one word about Mediterranean policy.
For there are fears in Europe, however unjustified they may be, that Europe and Germany are only looking to the east now and forgetting the issue of relations with the south.
So I think it is important that in our relations with the south, with the Mediterranean, we also focus discussion on the human rights question with partners such as Algeria.
It is not just a question of combating terrorism but also of human rights, of how a state combats terrorism.
That is the future of democracy and it should also be discussed with our Mediterranean partners and particularly with Algeria.
Thirdly, there is the famous sixty-four thousand dollar question of net contributors and net contributions.
One cannot simply assign more tasks to a political institution, of whatever kind, while at the same time constantly reducing its scope for action by financial cutbacks.
After all, we have seen what that leads to over the last few days in regard to the Commission.
The Commission said it did not have enough personnel to carry out its tasks.
Then we find the kind of problems arise that we have seen.
So we must give careful thought to this.
What reforms are needed in agriculture?
What problems from the past need dealing with?
How much more should the United Kingdom pay?
More equality, more equal rights.
Yes, but we also have to ask how much more the Union as a whole has to pay in order to carry out its tasks.
Applause
