Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me begin on a personal note.
I am happy to be the first speaker for my group to welcome the German Chancellor as President-in-Office of the European Council to the European Parliament; everyone will understand that as a Social Democrat I am particularly glad to do so, especially following the statement you have just made, Mr President-in-Office of the Council!
Applause
Rarely has a presidency of the Council had to take such important decisions as you have in the first three months of this presidency's term of office, and whatever people may think of particular aspects of the decisions, one thing has become clear: our European Union has proved its ability to act, for which we thank you.
Under your presidency the European Council nominated a candidate for the post of President of the Commission in the space of one hour, a process that dragged on over more than two summit conferences five years ago.
That is certainly worth something in this Union.
We will now ensure that we approve Mr Prodi's appointment during this electoral term of Parliament - i.e. in May - and that we vote on the entire Commission by early September at the latest.
I think that tallies with your timetable.
For the rest, the resignation of the Commission was not an institutional crisis, quite the contrary.
I see it as a step towards European normality.
Surely it is normal for Parliament to control and sanction, and surely it is and will remain normal in future too for the EU bodies to assume political responsibility for inadequacies and mistakes.
Applause
The fact that this has now happened for the first time also deserves our respect.
What we need now is a radical reform of the administrative structure and the administrative culture in Brussels, and that is not a task just for the new Commission but also for you in the Council and for us in Parliament.
We want not a weaker but a stronger Commission.
The new Commission must be able to become what it must become, namely a European government.
It we transfer tasks to the Commission, we must also ensure that it is given the funds for the staff it needs in order to fulfil these tasks.
Looking at the financial agreement reached in Berlin, I do not have the impression that the Council has fully realised that yet.
In fact we here in Parliament have not fully realised yet either that the Commission has to be given the funds to enable it actually to assume the responsibilities we are transferring to it.
Applause
The Berlin decisions on Agenda 2000 are a compromise, which is only normal, yet in some respects it is a difficult one to accept because some of the compromises that were and had to be reached between national interests will in fact be to the detriment and at the expense of Europe.
Over the next few weeks Parliament will subject them to critical and detailed analysis and you may be sure that we will find quite a few things to quibble about in these compromises.
I will not go into that in detail now.
Let me just say this: the agricultural reform was watered down.
You will have to improve on it in a very short time, not just because the reform does not go far enough to cope with enlargement but also in view of the next round of WTO negotiations.
Secondly, a new financial perspective requires an interinstitutional agreement.
We do not want to undo the Berlin financial package, but we want to organise some parts of it in such a way as to make them more consistent with our demands and priorities, e.g. the measures to combat long-term unemployment and support an active labour market.
We want an interinstitutional agreement on the financial perspective, we really do want it, but not at any price.
After all, this is an agreement, not a dictate.
Nevertheless and overall, with Agenda 2000 you have set in motion the greatest reform of EU policies that the EU has ever undertaken.
Mr President-in-Office of the European Council: we will do our utmost to obtain the necessary majorities for Agenda 2000 in Parliament and to adopt it before the end of this electoral term.
We know that it makes up only a part of the reforms needed to make the EU fit for enlargement, which is why I welcome your announcement today that you will determine the timetable for the necessary institutional reforms in Cologne in June.
We firmly support you in your intention to conclude this reform process before the first Eastern European country joins the European Union.
There is something else we expect of your presidency of the Council.
The European Union managed to conclude a pact on stabilising the common currency, which was a good thing.
But now it must also manage to conclude a pact on employment, which is an equally good thing.
That is why we support your intentions for the Cologne summit.
Applause
Turning to Kosovo: this is a difficult subject for all of us, particularly in my group.
We welcome the united support shown by the European Council in Berlin for NATO's military action.
That was another test of the common foreign and security policy, for it showed that Europe is a community of values, not just an economic community.
A large majority of my group supports the Member States' position on military action.
We regard this action as inevitable, but over and above the limits and necessity of military action, I would like to highlight two or three points.
It is true that we have to restrain the criminal Milosevic and his bands of soldiers and murderers.
At the end of this bloody century, nationalism and racism must no longer be given a chance in Europe, not anywhere in Europe!
International law builds on national sovereignty and territorial integrity.
These are important values, but no state in Europe may take national sovereignty and territorial integrity as a licence to oppress, displace or commit genocide.
Applause
That is why, over and above the military action that has now become necessary, we need to develop international law further, and we invite you to play your part in doing so.
The people of the Balkans will only find peace within a European perspective.
We welcome your initiative in calling for a Balkan conference to discuss political, economic and social reconstruction in this stricken region.
We firmly support the proposals you made here today.
Let me also say here: we thank the troops from the Member States committed to NATO.
We thank them for risking their lives to put an end to the ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.
Applause
We also thank the men and women from non-governmental organisations who are endeavouring, again at the price of great sacrifices, to make the situation of the refugees and displaced persons in this region a little more bearable.
They too deserve our thanks.
Applause
Mr President-in-Office of the European Council, you took over the presidency during one of the most difficult times the European Union has ever had to go through.
We wish you success, because that is also our success, the success of our European Union.
In the difficult task still ahead of you, we, the European Parliament, and in particular my group, will always be a critical, sometimes perhaps even a highly critical, but always a reliable partner.
Many thanks.
Applause
