Mr President, we had hoped for peace in Angola.
Such hopes had been raised many times before.
Years ago, Jonas Savimbi was invited here to our Parliament and promised to make peace.
Then he took up arms, and the country was plunged into war again.
Four years ago there was the Lusaka protocol, an agreement that we saw as the basis for many years of peace.
We have been there with various delegations from the European Parliament, and we have seen weapons being surrendered in Huambo, for example.
We parliamentarians, however, criticised the fact that the weapons being surrendered were arms from the Second World War, not the weapons that had been used in the civil war.
In other words, UNITA has been pulling the wool over our eyes for years; they used a cease-fire to keep the lid on the civil war to some extent over a period of several years, but this civil war scenario was always on their minds, and they wanted to pursue it.
I believe we must take serious note of the UN Security Council resolution, which calls for the enforcement of sanctions against UNITA.
We must take it seriously in two respects.
First of all, there is a need to ensure that UNITA can no longer mine diamonds and buy modern weapons with the proceeds from their sale.
Secondly, these diamonds must not find their way into the European Union, be marketed here and provide the capital for these arms purchases.
So it is up to the Member States not to let these diamonds from Angola enter their markets and to take steps to prevent their sale in the European Union.
On the other hand, as in every war situation, we have a suffering population, a population sucked into the war, generally against their will.
In such cases, Commissioner Marín, it is our duty to keep providing humanitarian aid wherever possible, wherever the people who want to administer that aid are not endangered.
So that it can be administered, I believe it is essential for us to continue the efforts we have been making to ensure that landmines are cleared, to support the removal from that country of the most barbaric weapons in existence.
We should also support the rehabilitation effort.
We visited rehabilitation workshops and can confirm that they are working well.
I believe that both humanitarian aid in general and the specific projects are a very important asset to the suffering population, as well as a good and vital contribution by the European Union, by the Commission, Parliament and the Council - the budgetary authority and the executive.
