Madam President, there is an annual pantomime that always sends something of a shiver down my spine or at least leaves me open-mouthed in amazement, and that is the occasion when the President of the United States delivers his address on the state of the nation and the world.
All the countries of the world are given plus and minus points.
Words of praise and censure are pronounced.
What it boils down to is that the whole world has to submit to American values and ideals.
I believe it is very important to do what Parliament is doing today, to hold a mirror in front of the Americans and to tell them that, if they must try to force their values on everyone else, they should also acknowledge that there are sections of the population of their own country - some of them native Americans - who may have other ideals in some respects, a different bond with their own country, with their own native soil, than the Americans who arrived later.
In this situation, it is very useful for us to keep returning to the specific case of Leonard Peltier.
This is a case that has attracted international attention.
There is an international Peltier Committee, of which I, for example, am a member and which has been dealing with the case for many years.
I consider it particularly important that the European Parliament too has adopted a resolution calling for the case of Leonard Peltier to be placed on the agenda of the next talks between the delegation for relations with the United States and its American counterparts, in order to expose something of the hypocrisy that has so often dominated the US line of argument in this matter.
Peltier has now been kept in prison for 23 years under exceedingly dubious circumstances.
He is in very poor health.
He has frequently been transferred, which has happened whenever public pressure has mounted and has become too great a burden for the prison in which he was accommodated.
This just goes to show that not only the US population but also the international community are really unwilling to accept such injustice from a country that is constantly preaching justice.
