Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have now spent nearly three years considering whether Turkey can participate in the Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes.
Now that these programmes are coming to a close at the end of this year and we are already discussing follow-up programmes, this subject has finally come onto Parliament's agenda.
One reason why it has taken so long is that people tended to link the subject of this report to the basic question of relations between the EU and Turkey and of Turkey's full membership of the European Union.
Article 28 of the EU-Turkey Association Agreement already provided for the possibility of Turkish accession to the EU.
The December 1997 European Council in Luxembourg, and in particular the June 1998 Cardiff European Council, confirmed the importance of binding Turkey more closely to the European Union in every area.
From the outset that also implied Turkish participation in Community programmes such as Socrates and Youth for Europe.
However, the Council has repeatedly noted that the applicant states must first achieve institutional stability, as a guarantee of a democratic and constitutional system, of the protection of human rights and of respect for and the protection of minorities.
There is no doubt that the human rights situation in Turkey, especially in regard to the treatment of minorities, remains unsatisfactory, as reflected in the most recent annual report by Amnesty International.
Moreover, Turkey's policy of obstructing Cyprus' application for accession is not acceptable.
Let me say that quite plainly.
But I do not want to go into any further detail today on the current human rights situation.
We have made our position on this clear on several occasions and in a variety of reports, as most recently in the Swoboda report by our committee on the development of relations with Turkey and on the European strategy for Turkey.
We have said all that needs saying on that subject.
Parliament's demands have been set out in numerous documents.
So this report confines itself to the question of Turkey's participation in the education and training programmes.
The wider-ranging discussions on Turkey's accession to the EU distract us from the objectives we are actually pursuing with the exchange programmes and which should really be our main yardstick when we look at this question.
The Socrates and Youth for Europe programmes were developed in order to teach young people the values of tolerance, democracy and active citizenship.
A declared aim of the European Union in establishing these programmes is to enable young people to play their part in building Europe, for young people who are brought up in a spirit of openness and tolerance are the most promising architects of a peaceful and humane Europe.
That is precisely why we should try to bind young people more closely to the idea of Europe and to its values.
That is why we began by opening these programmes to young people from the EFTA states and then also to young people from the associated Central and Eastern European states and also Cyprus and Malta.
That is why we must not simply leave Turkey out in the cold.
One of the tasks named in the justification for the first phase of Socrates was to put Europe within the reach of the man in the street and to give it a human dimension.
With that in mind, Turkey seems almost predestined to take part in the exchange programmes.
Europe must be brought into the field of vision of young people in Turkey, for it is these young people who are open to change in their country and are forward-looking enough to bring it about.
Moreover, young people have a very basic and responsible role to play in the process of democratisation and rapprochement between peoples.
The potential that exists here is shown by the fact that people under the age of 25 make up more than 50 % of Turkish society.
That offers a huge opportunity!
Of course we can only reach a fraction of these young people with our programmes.
But just think of the enormous amplifying effect produced by young people who gain positive personal experience from these programmes.
That is why we must offer young Turks a chance to get to know our western European culture and the way we treat fundamental rights and human rights for themselves.
This does actually work, as we have seen from the existing cooperation schemes between European youth and students' organisations.
Let me also emphasise again that we will seek fair participation of minorities and especially Kurds when we carry out the programmes.
The violent disputes that are now occurring on European soil make no difference here.
But we cannot achieve that through votes or suchlike.
Instead, we must carefully monitor the participation of the various minorities by drawing up an annual report.
In conclusion, let me just say that in my opinion we should remember the well-known saying by Jean Monnet, who kept emphasising that all European efforts at integration must in the end be based on bringing people closer together and not just uniting nations.
Closer cooperation among young people and the offer of exchange grants are important factors for strengthening democracy and respect for human rights in Turkey.
So both are an important step in terms of binding Turkey to the west in the long term.
I would therefore ask you to support me in calling for Turkey to participate in the Community's education and training and youth exchange programmes.
