Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, esteemed Members of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Donnelly accused us a short while ago of hypocritically making false attacks upon Commissioners-designate.
I can only say that whoever heard Brian Simpson this morning would not have recognised him at all.
That must have been socialist policy.
Brian Simpson attacked Mrs Palacio quite unashamedly and for no apparent reason.
I emphatically reject these attacks on her on behalf of my group.
The facts of the matter are quite different to what was stated.
The Committee recognised Mrs Palacio' s professional qualifications by a large majority.
The Committee has confirmed that the priorities which Mrs Palacio has set out orally and in writing reflect the opinion of Parliament.
A majority of the Committee was also satisfied with Mrs Palacio' s answers to the Socialists' accusations in connection with the flax subsidy investigation in Spain.
Mrs Palacio has convincingly shown that the investigating committee of the Spanish Parliament has rejected all accusations against her as unfounded.
We decisively reject the attacks by the Socialists who take up this old theme again and again and repeatedly put forward accusations.
We look forward to co-operating with Mrs Palacio.
You can gladly speak, Sir, when you have been allocated speaking time, but you will not steal the time allocated to myself!
However the collaboration with Mrs Palacio is to work, it will be decided in conjunction too with our colleague Mr Barnier, the Commissioner-designate for Regional Policy.
Because of his political experience as a national minister and also as chairman of a regional assembly, Mr Barnier is in the best position to understand, apply and transpose regional policy.
He said something which I found very convincing, namely: "Yes, we respect the principle of subsidiarity, that is to say, the Member States and the regions decide first, but, as a Commissioner, I am responsible for ensuring that the goals of regional policy are adhered to, and I shall take that responsibility seriously."
In this respect, we also look forward to collaborating with you, Mr Barnier.
