Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Elchlepp report is unequivocal and contains a number of demands.
It is a report which will enable us to become directly involved in the spheres of activity of the European Union and to implement the measures it contains.
I believe that, as Mr Elchlepp has already stated, this can go some considerable way to helping third countries meet the environmental standards that were set jointly in Kyoto.
For us, however, it is an enormous opportunity to progress through positive economic cooperation within the various development scenarios and agreements and, through cooperative partnership, to not only export new technologies but develop them jointly with our partners in the developing countries, within the framework of joint ventures.
First and foremost, these new technologies could help African countries to reduce their very costly consumption of fossil energy sources and to make significant progress, above all in rural development, not only in production of energy for electricity, lighting and hot water, but also for the energy needs of small and medium-sized industries and craft industries.
All in all, therefore, this is an excellent report which calls upon us to take action.
I would also like to mention that the European Union should establish a means of channelling aid, just as the Americans have done.
However, we are not in support of a system of aid which introduces export subsidies, such as those in the agricultural sector, for example, but we are in favour of one which covers quite a broad spectrum, as Mr Elchlepp has already partly indicated.
This should include, first of all, the provision of information.
We need to inform our SMEs, who are leading players in this sector, about opportunities in the third world.
At the same time, however, we need to inform third countries, especially the ACP countries, about these opportunities and, above all, about the opportunities in rural development, where, for example, cooperatives and producer groups could implement these uncomplicated technologies.
Secondly, this should include education and training in respect of the new markets which could arise for our enterprises.
We already have the appropriate provisions and even the new budget items which make this possible.
However, these are far too modest, and every year in the Committee on External Economic Relations we fight to get the Committee on Budgets to see the importance of these opportunities and to translate this importance into a few extra million.
In comparison to the huge budgetary blocks, this is virtually nothing.
Finally, this should include pilot projects to show the SMEs what is possible in the third world in the field of rural development.
I would like to end by saying something more about actual implementation.
I am now talking, in my role as Vice-President of the ACP-EU Joint Assembly, about actual implementation for these countries.
In Africa there is sun in abundance.
We must take advantage of this and give our African friends the chance to use this energy correctly.
Secondly, we must also make the necessary organisational decisions.
I am glad that our rapporteur on the future of the Lomé Convention and chairman of the PPE Group, Wilfried Martens, is still here and is perhaps listening to my contribution.
We first of all have the possibility of setting up an energy chapter within the framework of the new Convention and then, within this new energy chapter, of giving priority to renewable energies.
Thirdly, we must also inform the Centre for Industrial Development, which is provided for in the Lomé Convention, about this report and, in our next meeting with the ACP countries we must point out to this centre that here we have new opportunities for action which can be very quickly implemented.
Fourthly, I would like to say that we must hold this discussion in the ACP-EU Joint Assembly over the coming months in a very intensive, result-oriented and targeted way.
