Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, although the past few years have seen enormous progress in our knowledge of the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of illnesses that put women's health at risk, there is still a great deal to be done in this area.
I thank Mrs Hautala very warmly for her report.
I think we have managed this time broadly to reconcile our positions on the important aspects with those of the other groups.
The report concentrates on the essential aspect, namely women's health, and also considers the distribution of powers in the European Union.
The provisions on the controversial question of abortion and on toxic shock syndrome are worded in such a way that most Members can support them.
Yet I still believe that it is difficult for the European Union to give an answer to the question of abortion.
However, during the discussion on pregnancy, we gave priority to the possible health risk to the woman, including the psychological health risk, and even the risk to her life, in addition to the child's right to life and protection.
I welcome the fact that the report also takes up issues such as society-related health issues, which also show that lifestyle, socio-economic circumstances and a healthy life are determining health factors.
I think it is only right that the report calls on the Commission to take into account and refer specifically to the topic of women's health in its new action programme on health.
If we want to improve the health of women, it is important to take targeted measures on information, prevention and health promotion.
Women must become better informed and more involved in the planning and implementation of preventive programmes.
Since women live longer than men and have a lower mortality rate at all ages and for all causes of death, there is a general impression that they are healthier than men.
But the price of a higher life expectancy is the risk of becoming chronically ill and infirm.
If we use indicators to assess the state of health that also look at illness and impairment, and not just mortality, we find that in all age groups the state of women's health is worse than that of men.
This applies particularly to older women.
So we must aim to give women a greater chance of living their later years in good health, with greater independence and less impairment.
