Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, first I want to thank my colleagues in the committee, who worked together admirably, and especially Mr Sarlis, with whom I cooperated closely.
I am also grateful to our Commission colleagues, who provided us with a great deal of information and were most understanding, although I very much regret - as did the entire committee - that one Commission colleague decided in the end that none of the amendments was acceptable.
Commissioner, I do not know what you will say; as a democrat of course I have to accept it.
But I would certainly be sorry to see all the amendments simply dismissed out of hand.
Commission, I entirely agree with what you have repeatedly said, namely that the European railway system needs to be reformed.
But I cannot agree with those - even if we have close political links in the unions and in other areas - who believe that it would be best to leave things as they stand, or who believe that the difficult problems with the railways had been created by the Commission's proposals.
No, the difficult situation of the railways has arisen partly because many railway undertakings believed they did not need to reform, they did not need to change anything, they could continue operating in a national framework.
That is not true and in principle I agree with the ideas put forward by the Commissioner and the Commission.
It is certainly true that the difficult situation as regards rail/road competition in my view disadvantages the railways and that this needs rectifying.
In that regard I have taken several aspects into account.
And I can understand that the unions and the railway undertakings are highlighting this.
There is much talk of privatisation and liberalisation.
But privatisation does not even come into question in this context, it is not being proposed.
We can certainly consider liberalisation up to a certain point.
I would prefer to say something different, in relation to our proposals: it is a question of Europeanising the railway system.
Air transport has been Europeanised, all the undertakings have been Europeanised, there is a common market.
However, many railway undertakings continue to believe they can frame their programmes at national level and then they wonder why freight traffic and employment and so forth are declining.
That is untenable!
That is why I, like Mr Sarlis - and that is the thrust of my amendments - believe that we should target the next step towards liberalisation or Europeanisation at an area where we have a European market, where the competition between rail and road is particularly strong, namely cross-border freight traffic; I have made the corresponding proposals.
So I entirely support the Commission's basic premise and its proposals on opening up the market.
It is up to the railway undertakings to decide whether to do so more in the form of cooperation or of competition.
Of course we do not want new monopolies to emerge.
It is a question of the transparency of the decisions, the transparency of the allocations.
Although this sector has not been regulated, it is certainly also a question of technical framework conditions.
So we need harmonisation in the technical field too.
And it is a question of equal competition and fairness, not just between rail and road but also as regards the railways themselves, in these individual decisions.
I come now to a central point, where my opinion differs from that of the Commission.
In particular it concerns the large number of both central and decentralised rules.
I believe the Commission has done a very good job in many cases.
Its detailed proposals are probably also the most sensible way to go about this.
But I do not think it is always sensible of the Commission to want to propose and implement them without making the national rules sufficiently flexible in their turn.
That is why I have deleted a fair number of provisions - and this really must not be seen as any disrespect for the Commission's work here - not because I think they are bad but because I believe it is not the Commission's job to regulate this in such detail, particularly since I am convinced that nobody can control all this centrally.
I happen to believe that we should only adopt rules of this kind if compliance with them can also be checked, rather than having an abundance of rules that cannot be monitored.
As for the charging principles, here again I agree with the Commission: on principle marginal charges should be required.
But I think the external costs should only be charged in the railway system if they can also be charged at about the same rate for road traffic.
I believe that a profit that bears a proper relation to the costs would be entirely acceptable and could be calculated, and that higher costs could also be charged for certain special investments.
However, I have deleted the detailed rules on this from the report.
Regarding the central issue of the authorised applicant, I personally have nothing against the Commission's views on this.
But I have added one restriction, which I consider important to ensure that this is acceptable and that we really concentrate on what is necessary.
Each country should continue to be able to regulate this as it wishes in its area of jurisdiction.
But all European Member States must note and accept that for cross-border freight traffic all European railway undertakings shall be regarded as authorised applicants, meaning that they shall be eligible to request capacity.
I think that is the essential point.
If we take this decision in Parliament tomorrow, then I believe it will be a real milestone in the development of a European railway system.
We will then have competition in cross-border freight traffic; that is where it is most important, that is where the railways must make efforts.
For I hope we will take a decision on all those matters that the Commission is rightly proposing, such as on the European tax disc, on the Switzerland package and the fair distribution of costs between rail and road.
It is vital for the railways also to show that they are willing to reform and to make the appropriate reforms.
That is why I hope, Commissioner, that you will be able to accept some of these amendments and that this package will help us finally also to have a European railway system.
