Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I warmly commend the way in which the Commission has used this proposal for a directive to simplify significantly the procedures governing the right to deduct value added tax.
This will assist the further harmonisation of VAT in the Union.
In future, taxable persons registered in one country only for the purposes of value added tax will quite rightly be entitled to enter the deduction directly on the periodic tax returns which they complete in their country of residence.
The actual place of supply of the services to which the expenditure relates is not the key element here.
The level of the deduction depends, as one would expect, on the rules applicable in the Member State of residence.
If, however, a company is identified for VAT purposes in several countries, and has outgoings in one of them, the right to deduct value added tax will also be granted in the country of purchase.
Where the company has no VAT registration number in the Member State in which the expenditure is incurred, the deciding factor will be the place where the services to which the expenditure relates were supplied, bearing in mind that the deduction is linked to that expenditure.
Henceforth, value added tax will no longer be deductible solely in the Member State in which turnover is taxed.
Businesses and tax administrations alike are set to gain from this new situation.
The current reimbursement procedure under the eighth VAT directive is far too complicated and bureaucratic.
It has meant that companies were generally obliged to hire local tax consultants and endure a long wait for refunds.
Every application outside the framework of the standard tax return has to be considered individually at the moment; this takes up the tax authorities' time and creates additional red tape.
Against such a backdrop, the bilateral approach to debt compensation and refunds envisaged in this proposal certainly promises to be more efficient.
Member State 'A' notifies Member State 'B' of the amounts it has deducted over the previous six months.
The two states then work out what they owe one another; there is no need for a costly and time-consuming clearing procedure.
The multi-phase monitoring system ensures that tax administrations are not called upon to take an immediate and final decision on deductibility.
The first stage corresponds to the assessment performed by the Member State granting the VAT deduction.
This state electronically informs the state in which the expenditure was incurred of the amount of turnover for which a deduction was allowed pursuant to Article 17(3)(a).
Provision is rightly made for eventual irregularities to be reported; the Member State uncovering a problem must notify its counterpart within three months of having obtained the relevant information.
The authorities which granted the deduction will then check whether this was legitimately obtained.
I welcome harmonisation of the rules governing deductions for expenditure of a dual business and private nature - on company cars or business trips, for example.
There are currently many different yardsticks used in assessing borderline cases - witness all the various provisions in national law and the different ways in which they are interpreted nationally by the tax authorities.
A single market cannot afford these variables; too often the result is that the tax due is not paid.
In future, outgoings on cars will be covered by the standard rules, which is right and proper.
I also think it wise that Member States should be allowed to limit the deduction to a maximum of 50 % of the tax applied.
Where problems arise with establishing levels of private use, this ceiling will be calculated on the basis of maximum estimated business use.
The other solutions envisaged succeed in addressing the problems.
With business travel in particular, it is certainly the case that action is required on the flat-rate deduction of 50 % in respect of accommodation costs.
While it is to be welcomed that this proposal for a directive remedies some of the shortcomings of the transitional system, I would not wish that fact to be used as a pretext for shelving the idea of a definitive new regime.
The Union needs uniform arrangements in terms of structures, definitions, procedures and monitoring.
The country of origin principle must become the basis for taxing turnover everywhere; we also need a single clearing procedure.
This is essential, given the differing interests of the various Member States.
The dawning of the age of economic and monetary union does not necessarily demand total tax harmonisation, but VAT is one charge that can be dealt with in a uniform fashion.
As we speak, untaxed goods are circulating through the commercial channels, effectively depriving the EU exchequer of over 700 billion euros.
That is too high a price to pay.
