Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, ladies and gentlemen, a few days before the EU summit in Berlin, where a decision will also be taken on the future of policy in rural areas, it is timely to repeat two demands made by the European Socialists.
Firstly, Europe needs a socially responsible support policy which assists the weak and demands practical solidarity from the strong while also giving them the necessary freedom.
Secondly, through its structural and support policies in rural areas, Europe must also make determined efforts to safeguard existing jobs and create new ones, because for Socialists throughout the Union, labour market policy must be the number one priority.
The decisions made in Berlin must and will be positive for the EU.
Given the diversity of the issues and the fact that they are crucial to the EU's future, compromises are obviously going to be necessary, as they are in any democratic system.
Anyone announcing to the House here and now, for the benefit of the media, that they alone will come back a winner is certainly about to become painfully isolated.
Those who are already talking in terms of a crisis, dispensing advice in the manner of a schoolteacher and heavily criticising the way in which the German Presidency is conducting the negotiations should recall, Mr Brok, that many of the problems which are having to be tackled here have been put off for years, and that there are a good many who watched without a word of protest while two thirds of the agriculture budget of DEM 75 billion disappeared for entirely economic reasons and was not even spent as we intended, but was instead poured into export subsidies and storage costs.
This is a policy which is unsocial, if not even antisocial!
The evidence is clearer in agricultural policy than in any other EU policy that if the old support system is continued, smaller concerns will be - as they have been for years - the ones to suffer, not to say the foolish ones, and basically this is the way it will stay.
In the meantime - and this too needs to be stated in this House - lobbyists on the look-out for a convincing policy have hit upon a new idea.
Suddenly they are saying: away with all subsidies, away with all bureaucracy.
We only want a regulated market.
But if you take a look at this system or this new proposal, this regulated market turns out to be a European Union which is closed off to the outside world, managed, as it were, like a sandpit.
However, a fortress state of this kind, in the 19th century style, would not only mean an end to the common market and the free movement of goods.
Those who advocate such utter foolishness - because they have run out of ideas and people are running away from them - are also, and with a complete lack of responsibility, leaving the 6 % who still work in rural areas to face the anger of the remaining 94 % of Europeans, who then rightly point out that a 'philosophy' of this kind will not only cause jobs and social security to disappear for ever, but will eventually cause the downfall of the successful model which is the European Union, and which is unique in the history of Europe and the world.
