Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, numerous academic studies and publications by employers' associations, organisations representing small and medium-sized businesses, trade unions and public institutions have served as the basis for my report on jobs of the future in Europe.
I am grateful to my colleagues in the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs and the Committee on Women's Rights for their amendments, most of which I have incorporated into the report.
In the brochures I have obtained, even the glossiest of them, I find only a catalogue of achievements.
There are no visions or specific statements of intent for the next 10 to 15 years.
Globalisation, fierce international competition and ever shorter lifespans for innovations and decisions are resulting in deep-seated insecurity for everyone, from managers to part-time staff.
The hearing organised by the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs, in which the Union of the Industries of the European Community (UNICE), the European Trade Union Confederation (ETUC) and the European Union of Crafts and Small and Medium-Sized Enterprises (UEAPME) took part, also made it clear that the current structural transformation is moving too fast to permit any long-term forecasts.
What are the trends that might influence the jobs of the future?
First of all, as we enter the information and knowledge society, we shall need suitably qualified employees.
They must have facts at their fingertips, they must keep educating themselves, even in their spare time, and they must be able to master technological equipment.
Once they have amassed a wide range of knowledge, they will be able to move from one discipline to another, switching from the occupation for which they were initially trained to another occupation and repeating that process three or four times in the course of their working lives.
They will have to be specialists and all-rounders at the same time, and will have to acquire key skills such as in-house communication, public relations, creativity and the skills of conflict resolution.
As hierarchical structures dissolve and staff assume an increasing amount of responsibility, they must also be good team players.
They must be multilingual and able to empathise with foreign cultures.
School curricula and training programmes in the Member States will have to be reformed so as to emphasise knowledge of applied technology, educational breadth, new career profiles and the mentality of lifelong learning.
It is not only wrong to demand too much of people; it is also wrong to expect too little of them.
Secondly, in order to achieve high employment potential, in addition to these multiskilled employees there will be an increase in the number of job opportunities which involve the performance of basic tasks.
These are required in manufacturing and in labour-intensive industries.
Millions of people will obtain this type of work and will contribute to gains in productivity.
Thirdly, I cannot share the euphoric vision in which the service sector appears as an indestructible generator of jobs, because not every job that is done without payment today can be transformed into external paid employment.
Demand for services provided by regions and individuals will certainly increase.
These include care services, from the training of carers and care management to care of the elderly, home care and health care in hospitals and nursing homes.
Some services are business-related, ranging from insurance to corporate services; others are distributive, such as transport and communications; household-related services include retailing and catering, while other services relate to the social sector, covering areas such as employment and personal finance.
Tourism will be a strong growth area, from travel agencies marketing products designed for specific target groups to rural and cultural tourism.
To pave the way for new entrants to these jobs of the future in the Member States, the European Commission will need to launch initiatives but must, of course, respect the principle of subsidiarity at the same time.
Fourthly, there are good prospects in the fields of biopharmaceuticals and agricultural biotechnology, although public acceptance must be secured before these industries can take off.
No such controversy, however, attaches to systematically applied environmental technology, in which we Europeans already lead the field.
Considerable growth should be seen in research and development, which are the source of the innovative products and processes that enable companies to secure niches in the world market.
The TIME industries - telecommunications, information technology, the media and electronics - will be among the beneficiaries of the changing employment structure as networking and decentralisation take hold.
I believe there are three priorities with regard to sustainable jobs in the European Union.
First of all, European support programmes - and this, Mr Flynn, is addressed to the European Commission - must be maintained in the long term without any reduction in their volume.
These include start-up programmes, schemes designed to enhance the competitiveness of SMEs and measures whereby women, who are still a disadvantaged group, can upgrade their qualifications and enjoy real equality of opportunity.
Secondly, the flexibility that is required for the jobs of the future demands a reorganisation of the work process.
There is a need for more company agreements to be concluded, providing for such things as part-time arrangements designed to enable parents to reconcile their occupational and family responsibilities, as well as proper social protection and childcare facilities.
Thirdly, instead of merely considering how to share out the existing workload among more people, the Member States must launch education and training campaigns.
The current presidency of the Council would do well to give up the idea of an EU-wide alliance for work, which is still a nebulous concept, and replace it with a far more meaningful and, what is more, an achievable alliance for the future.
Millions of people, especially those who are marginalised and unemployed as well as young, experienced and women employees, are waiting for this ambitious step towards a new dawn.
