Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, eight or nine million or cars a year are discarded in the European Community.
That calls for rules, and I think it was high time the European Commission addressed this issue.
I was a little annoyed to find that in this very important area, which is important not just to environment policy but also to economic policy, we received a proposal from the Commission that contained no annexes, or rather annexes that were empty.
For we know that the annexes are the crux of the matter.
Normally we have tended to send this kind of proposal back.
But since we have started, we may as well try to go on with our endeavour.
I believe this directive has set a good course.
There are some areas where it needs tightening up a bit.
And in some areas it is very strict.
In committee we decided by a fairly substantial majority to concentrate only on two- and three-wheeled vehicles, unlike the Commission, which wants to set out broader rules.
The object of this directive is to ensure that in future vehicles that have reached the end of their life can only be deregistered on production of a certificate of destruction, which may sound very good at first, but which is in my view rather difficult to achieve, in some Member States at least.
A little more work needs be done here and we have made a few proposals to that end.
Article 6 concerns the treatment of end-of-life vehicles.
I believe here too a few nuances are needed, but basically we will follow the Commission line.
Another point I do not entirely understand is how the costs will be distributed in future in Europe.
The Commissioner reverted to a rather fuddy-duddy approach and opted for no costs for the last owner and/or user.
No doubt that sounds quite interesting to a politician, especially when elections are on the horizon.
But no costs for the last user either, that can never be!
That is a fallacy.
I think we have overlooked the fact that no costs will automatically lead to a monopoly and, as we all know all too well, monopolies always lead to concentration processes, which are always a bad thing!
That really will drive the small and medium-sized enterprises that we keep supporting and praising in our electioneering speeches out of the market.
Jobs will be lost.
It will cut the regional incomes of our petrol stations, of our garages.
After all I would not drive to some posh body repair shop to have my car deregistered, I would go to my local dealer who lives in my village and has been looking after my car for years.
I believe that is the wrong approach.
My proposal is that the Member States should be responsible, together with the economic operators involved, i.e. the manufacturer, recoverer, shredder, last owner, etc., for developing a system at their own cost that will where possible involve no cost for the last owner, but not par ordre de moufti .
I think an insurance system like the one for motor vehicles, where everyone pays in one euro a month, would be quite a good solution.
That would certainly have been in my amendment.
There is a second point - and here for once I agree with the Commissioner, in fact I am quite enthusiastic - and that is the very exacting recovery targets.
These very exacting recovery targets will without doubt require the industry to make quite an effort.
And that is a good thing, for we have a great number - hundreds of thousands, millions - of cars in Europe and obviously we want to go on having them.
But precisely because we want to have them, we also need sensible recovery quotas.
I believe the committee has moved in the wrong direction here, because it has accepted an amendment by a colleague of mine, whom I normally hold in very high regard, that prescribes that nothing more will be done until the year 2020.
If I am interpreting that amendment correctly, then in future the motor industry will only have to ensure that there are no passengers in the car; apart from that, it can send the car to the shredder and do whatever it wants.
That is not environmentally friendly, and you know that this is something I keep a very close eye on.
I believe the Commission's approach is a little too harsh, but if it could be toned down a little the basic principle would be right.
It is precisely because we have nine million tonnes of scrap cars that we need recycling rules.
We turned the whole of Europe upside down for one ridiculous little package and introduced packaging regulations for it.
We are now deciding on the labelling to go with this packaging regulation - the rapporteur is sitting behind me.
So if we fix a recycling quota for such a small matter, then we surely also need to have recycling quotas for nine million tonnes of scrap cars, and certainly before the year 2020.
I do not think this is acceptable!
A lot of lobbying is going on here, but we will put a stop to it.
We may quarrel about the ban on hazardous substances.
The Commission has proposed values and parameters which, in my view, are very tough.
In this field too we are now seeing an enormous expansion.
I would stick to the Commission's principle and propose a combined committee made up of Directorates-General III and XII, which would make a critical, scientifically sound proposal after three years on whether these tough rules need to be maintained and implemented.
I know it is sacrilege to invite DG III and DG XII to the same table, but I do not think it is such a bad idea.
Some people want to ban PVC.
I cannot judge the merits of that.
I am not an expert in chemistry.
But if PVC is dangerous, then all this junk should be banned in a horizontal directive and not stigmatised in an individual secondary directive.
The Commission needs to hurry up here, and that is where you, Mrs Bjerregaard, come in.
I know you have some very important colleagues who are slowing this whole business down.
It is up to you to see to this horizontal directive.
This kind of thing cannot be regulated in the directive we have here.
That is stigmatisation, and I do not think it is right.
I am a passionate supporter of voluntary agreements.
If there are Member States which dispose of their old cars in line with the objectives of the European directives then, for God's sake, provided they can be monitored, we should also allow them to retain their voluntary agreements.
Instructions from above are always a second best.
