Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I did not understand your last comment at all, Mr Mann.
There is absolutely nothing contradictory in the fact that the alliance for work which the German Federal Government is pursuing nationally, and which it is pursuing at European level during its presidency, is a useful contribution to employment growth.
So I am quite amazed by your comment because, as you know, we support your report in principle.
We also support your proposals on the environmental orientation of future economic activity and on the sabbatical year, and we hope that your group will not succeed in watering down the content of your report.
We see your report as a tile in the mosaic of the parliamentary quest for more employment, as part of the continuous process that we have been pursuing in Parliament for the past four years through the employment policy we initiated, through the Amsterdam employment summit and through the Luxembourg guidelines, despite some governments having dropped the occasional spanner into the works.
I also think you were right to include in your report the Commission's critical assessment of the national action plans, because there is little point in our being unwilling to learn from past mistakes.
But I am pleased, and I take the liberty of stating it here, that the priorities of the German Presidency will be the fight against youth unemployment and female unemployment.
This was not such a matter of course in Germany as you have implied.
I support the proposals contained in your report regarding the various means of creating sustainable jobs, and particularly the two main avenues.
The first of these is the redistribution of existing work.
That is hardly a new proposal, but we should not underestimate it in the context of a democratic society which enables mothers to hold down a job and which allows fathers to fulfil other social responsibilities besides their paid employment.
In my opinion, the second avenue of strengthening growth potential and improving basic conditions also requires special support.
By this, of course, I mean support for new business activities, for the tertiary sector, care services and, needless to say, for our great hope for the future, the SMEs.
By basic conditions I do not mean the supply-side policies that some countries have been pursuing, but the conditions for a modern system of education and vocational training.
I was also pleased to hear Mrs Edelgard Bulmahn, the German Federal Minister of Education and Research, emphasising to our committee that many Member States - including Germany, unfortunately - have education systems that are not Europe-friendly, not to mention their systems of further education, which are essentially at odds with the objectives we always proclaim in connection with lifelong learning.
Another important aspect is undoubtedly the acquisition of key skills, team skills and holistic thinking; we agree on that, and you know that I laid particular stress on the need for the men of our society to learn this kind of team skill.
I also thank Mrs Bulmahn for her pledge that Germany for one would be doubling its education and research budget over the next five years.
That, of course, is a signal by which we shall judge her.
We all know that the transfer of knowledge between the academic world and industry, in terms of real exploitable discoveries, is far too slow and that in many Member States it falls far short of what is required.
Our best bet in the initial stages, of course, is to support small and medium-sized businesses, which are the most powerful generators of new employment.
I should also like to mention one other target group that is often neglected in this debate, namely the foreigners who live with us in our EU Member States and whose enterprising spirit has done a great deal to provide additional employment.
Let me say here that I consider it a scandal that in my home state of Hesse, foreigners are currently being subjected to an unacceptable campaign of discrimination.
My last point concerns the lack of emphasis on what women can do in small and medium-sized businesses.
Their innovative capacity and their creativity are simply not able to come to the fore in the real world.
I believe the European Union should provide special support for enterprising women who want to start up in business.
