Mr President, it may be a coincidence that we are discussing a report about openness in the Union this week, but it really does make Mrs Lööw's text a very topical one.
Had there been more transparency or more openness, then perhaps the Commission and the European Parliament would not have been in the situation of having to hold the debates we are holding this week.
But here too we need rules of play, for then openness really can provide the citizen with reliable information, which, God knows, we need.
After all, electoral campaigns always reveal the deficits in this area very clearly.
However, what we need is not market criers but precise information.
The Lööw report on openness within the European Union is a serious attempt to give just that precision to the relevant provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty.
An interinstitutionally agreed code of conduct is to be formulated to that end.
That is a difficult but a truly necessary task.
In any case the proposed provisions are likely to create considerably more openness.
I am sure further discussion will still be needed of some of the proposals, if they are also to apply to institutions such as the Court of Justice, the European Central Bank, the European Court of Auditors and the European Investment Bank.
It is certainly desirable - and here too we welcome the Lööw report - for Council and Coreper decisions to become more transparent by improved access to their documents, for the EU administration to provide the citizen with information more rapidly and courteously - which should really be a matter of course - and for multilingualism to be maintained precisely for the sake of transparency.
Today it is clear that modern electronic techniques have to be used.
Yet we should not go quite as far as most of the amendments, especially Amendment No 4.
However, my group will endorse the broad lines of the report.
The report demands a great deal and of course the European Parliament must also realise that this would mean creating the appropriate financial and staffing conditions, to avoid being told afterwards by the Commission and all the other institutions that any lack of efficiency was simply due to a lack of the necessary resources.
That, after all, is the reason for the dilemma we now find ourselves in.
I really would wish to avoid that and I hope this report on openness within the Union will create the necessary bases for doing so.
