Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, ladies and gentlemen, let me just call out after Mr Brok, who is already fleeing to the group meeting room, that the SPD also differs from the PPE and its German members in that our party does not have a short memory.
That is why I am surprised that after 16 years in government in Germany they now seem to be prophesying that the current German Government will have to answer for the failure of employment policy.
That really is absurd, and basically everyone in Europe understands that.
What a number of people in Europe do not understand is rural development policy, agricultural policy.
Anyone who speaks of a reform of agricultural policy in connection with the need to change the shape of the European Union must realise two things: firstly, this reform is overdue and necessary in any case.
It has not been put on the agenda because of the imminent advent of the enlargement eastward that we hope to see.
Secondly, they must realise that this is not just a question of agricultural prices, export refunds and compensatory payments, important as they are.
Basically it is a question of the future of our rural areas, which account for 80 % of the European Union, and above all of how we will manage to protect jobs, to create new jobs and to maintain the environment in Europe both within the agricultural sector as such but also, independently of that, in the rural areas.
European public opinion does not dispute these aims.
What has been increasingly and rightly disputed are the ways and means by which the European Union's financial resources are used for the rural areas.
A short while ago the President of the European Court of Auditors pointed out that the situation is still not tolerable, with 80 % of the European tax-payers' contributions intended for the rural areas, for agriculture, going to only 20 %, i.e. to the most prosperous people.
No man or woman in Europe can understand that, and rightly so.
So it must be one of the priority aims of Agenda 2000 to make it clear that aid policy must largely be social policy in the agricultural sector too.
It is unacceptable to see a farmer in a rural area who earns millions, who has turned his well-situated farm into virtually a one-man business thanks to massive rationalisation, who has the best contacts with the world market and obtains the best prices on it, still being just as eligible for aid as a farmer in a disadvantaged area, who can often only survive by overworking.
We Social Democrats are not jealous of the European global player's economic success.
But we do demand that the farmer in a disadvantaged region who can never become a global player, but who protects the rural area through his invaluable environmental services, that this farmer should also be given decent support - a more decent level of support than we have seen in the past - for the services he has performed.
That would close the circle.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, you rightly said at the start that we must not show solidarity only with the weakest Member States but must also and always show solidarity with the weakest members of society, and naturally that includes those working in rural areas.
Applause
