Madam President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, I am also among those who tomorrow will vote "no" if something decisive still does not happen.
And make no mistake, the discussion in the PPE Group this evening will still be very exciting.
These are the reasons why I shall be voting "no" if no far-reaching change is to take place.
Firstly, your Commission reveals a democratic deficit, Mr Prodi.
The result of the European election is not reflected at any point in your team.
I can appreciate why you' ve accepted a "green" Commissioner in view of the result achieved by the Greens in the European election.
People will not, however, understand why ten Socialists are to be represented when they ask what influence their votes have really had upon the composition of the European Commission.
And let us ask your predecessor, Mr Santer.
Who, in this connection, has achieved any kind of success with the various national governments?
My second reason is the answers given by the Commissioners-designate at the hearings about the van Buitenen case.
The citizens of Europe will not understand it if a new strategy is not at last applied here and those who care about transparency do not also finally receive stronger support in the Commission.
The biggest problem for me and many others, however, is the proposed successor to Mrs Cresson.
I do not, of course, want to pronounce any legal judgement upon Mr Busquin.
I do not represent Belgian justice, and none of us want to put him in prison.
The question is that of how we can restore trust in the European institutions.
Do you really believe that we can win the citizens' trust when the only answer we are ever presented with is "I have not been accused personally" ?
Mr Busquin is involved in the Inusop affair and has not been accused for the sole reason that the case became statute-barred.
This is an astonishing parallel to the case of the EU' s Balkans Co-ordinator, Bodo Hombach.
And in the Dessault-Augusta affair it has since become very clear that he knew of an illicit fund.
I wonder who can guarantee us that we will not have illicit funds in the Commission in future, in the DG XII or elsewhere, if this subject is not tackled in a better way than has so far been the case.
So, Mr Prodi, you can still convince me by active intervention, but you must provide a very clear sign to Parliament and to the public.
Otherwise, I shall be voting "no" tomorrow like a lot of other people.
It won' t be a "no" vote for Europe but a vote for a clean, democratic and transparent Europe.
