Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, of course you are right to note or criticise the fact that this report aims far beyond the amendments that would have necessarily resulted from the Amsterdam Treaty and therefore also exceeds its task.
But that is not really my problem.
What I criticise is the spirit underlying these amendments.
I believe that we must ask ourselves whether such a comprehensive amendment of the Rules will really make Parliament more democratic.
The acid test of the democratic culture of a parliament is minority rights.
Have they been strengthened or weakened here?
I think it is not difficult to see that the countless amendments restrict the rights of the smaller groups, the minorities, that they do not strengthen the rights of the individual Member, that they give precedence to majority rights and to the bureaucratisation of Parliament.
I think it is a pity that the majority of Members are using this opportunity to make Parliament less democratic rather than taking substantial steps to make it more democratic.
Mr Corbett has described the Commission's position in relation mainly to future integration and is looking, in the final analysis, to a European government; but I think he must also realise that a European government of this kind would have a particular result for Parliament, as it would split it into an opposition and government parties.
That is what makes it so precarious, for it would mean that minority rights were restricted rather than strengthened.
There are many examples of this.
Let me name three: the vote of no confidence against senior office holders of this House - no one group even has the right to express no confidence; the number of signatures in support of initiatives is increased from 29 to 32; it will become more difficult to table motions for resolutions.
That is the reverse of making Parliament more democratic.
It is an attempt by the majorities to win themselves advantages, and I regret this development because it does not benefit the European Parliament, and certainly not its democratic culture.
