Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a couple of basic observations regarding this matter of supplementary and amending budgets.
It is surely correct and necessary to react to urgent and pressing demands relating to financial policy, in particular as prompted by the situations we are faced with in Kosovo and also in Turkey.
Nevertheless, one cannot help thinking that we are faced with a certain amount of confusion.
Parliament, understandably, given past experiences as well, is always very quick to suspect that conscious redistribution from sections of the budget where funds are still available is actually practised since the budget undoubtedly contains unpopular priorities on the part of Parliament which other institutions do not necessarily remember to transpose.
The worse thing is actually not supplementary and amending budget no.
4, but the fact that I cannot today make any assessment whatsoever whether we are to end this year with the fifth supplementary budget or whether we will not get to no.
7 by December, for the Commission itself in its working document regarding the setting of borrowing requirements provided very different estimates.
It is not possible to estimate what payments may still have to be made to the PHARE programme.
Madam rapporteur has already mentioned the 650 million.
In this respect, we should all actually feel uneasy.
Commissioner, I believe that in order for us to arrive at a well-ordered and rational procedure, it is absolutely necessary that the Commission gets down to clearing-up operations by December, before the second reading, so as to avoid finding ourselves in a similar situation next year to the one we have this year, particularly as the Commission itself is saying that it can certainly not be estimated what payments will be needed for the year 2000.
I would also like to set great store by the fact, Commissioner, this being a matter of concern for the Committee on Budgetary Control, that the Commission declares itself ready, in presenting the fifth supplementary and amending budget, to introduce the extra 15 posts called for in the agreement by the Committee on Budgetary Control.
As far as we are concerned, this is one of the prerequisites if we are to come to a decision in October.
I would also like to establish a connection with tomorrow' s debate, Mr President.
Tomorrow, we are discussing and voting on the proposal relating to the Agency for Reconstruction for Kosovo.
I would like to make it very clear that we, through the fourth supplementary and amending budget, were spontaneously and quickly in a position to increase the appropriate resources and to make said resources available.
But it is also in the interests of the Commission itself that the proposals, both with regard to financial responsibility and as regards the structure of the Agency for Reconstruction, are urgently revised by Parliament, for making the resources available is not in itself sufficient to make the undertaking efficient, transparent and responsible.
We will come back to this point tomorrow.
