Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, thank you for your contributions to this debate, which I regard as on the whole giving strong encouragement to the German Presidency's programme for the Cologne summit which I have presented.
Let me very briefly give my position on four questions that many Members have raised here.
The first is the question of the basic perspective, the basic strategy.
Quite contrary to some fears expressed here, it would seem that Europe is coming closer together in face of the crisis and that the processes of integration are acquiring a new dynamic, both internally and in terms of the area covered, quite simply because, as I have said once before in this Parliament, the European alternatives are becoming clearer than ever before in this time of crisis, namely the alternative represented by this Parliament, which is an integrated Europe, a Europe based on peace, stability and prosperity, and on the other side the old picture of Europe that we see in the Balkan wars: nationalism resulting in war, expulsion and misery.
When we look at these alternatives we see that there is a very distinct trend throughout Europe towards European integration.
We must exploit and strengthen that trend.
Let me give a small example.
The fact that last week the Council called on the Commission urgently to submit a proposal to conclude association negotiations with Albania and Macedonia means that we are actually 10 to 20 years ahead of time, for under normal circumstances this could not have been envisaged until at least ten years' hence.
It is the political circumstances that are forcing us to rethink our strategy and really make use of the dynamic that has now been created.
The second question concerns the Employment Pact.
Let me say that in terms of substance it is not an employment policy action plan.
That remains within the remit of the responsible national leaders.
The Federal Republic of Germany, for instance, has already submitted its national plan and is trying to implement it; it has earmarked DM 2 billion for a special plan to create 100 000 training places and jobs for unemployed young people.
That is what we expect of the Member States.
What the European Employment Pact can achieve is a commitment to ends and also to means, and above all macro-economic coordination.
We should not underestimate the importance of that coordination, for it did not work adequately in the past.
In this context, the macro-economic dialogue between the institutions on the one hand and with the social partners and the European Central Bank on the other represents a new and important element.
It is not a question of in any way diminishing the Central Bank's independence, but it obviously must be included in any dialogue on macro-economic coordination.
After all, it has very crucial instruments available to it and surely it is better for people to sit down together and talk to each other - and the European Central Bank can evaluate the real expectations in Europe - than to engage in public quarrels and battles that cannot produce any practical results.
My second point in this connection is that of course we must optimise the financial resources and instruments available to the European Union and in particular to the Commission with a view to creating employment.
As I understood President Santer, the report he intends to submit is aimed at achieving precisely that objective.
My third point concerns the institutional reforms.
I would not like to see any misunderstanding arise here.
What the German Presidency is envisaging is the beginning of a medium and long-term process whose end we cannot even foresee, just as we cannot even foresee its scale.
Embedded within this process are concrete steps that we can see clearly and that we should take as soon as possible, rather than embarking on some huge reform project that encompasses everything, an intergovernmental conference on a scale never seen before; that would lead to the kind of failure never seen before either.
The rational course is to decide step by step what can be decided, while always remembering that we are engaged in a more broadly-based process that will basically be a process of social discussion, a process of parliamentary discussion.
The first two steps are, therefore, as I have said: firstly, to tackle the famous leftovers of Amsterdam and examine the question whether our present situation as regards relations between the institutions will force us to make further changes to the Treaty, and secondly, the charter of basic rights, which, as I said, will have to be formulated by the parliaments.
My last point goes back to what Mr Tindemans and others have said.
I am extremely grateful to Mr Tindemans for speaking so plainly, for his urgent appeal that we finally do what we should have done long ago.
The German Presidency has undertaken to do a great deal here.
It wants Europe to do more than just speak, but to act, to take a real leap forward now, to actually use the instruments at our disposal, for in the end they are all there.
They are all there in the Amsterdam Treaty.
They are all there in the various institutions concerned with security in Europe.
We just have to put it all together and fashion it into a meaningful whole.
It is a question of political will and nothing else.
It is not a question of not having the necessary means or legal bases.
It is simply a question of political will.
I cannot foresee today whether the Heads of State and Government will muster this strong political will to take the necessary step and open up the new dimension of integration that we urgently need.
But I promise you that we will make every effort to achieve this.
And all in all I am optimistic, because the situation we now find ourselves in truly does force us to draw the conclusions that should have been drawn a long time ago.
