Mr President, the Social Democrats may well clap when Mr Kohl's achievements are being lauded, but nevertheless we are happy to welcome the foreign minister of this government here today.
Applause
Mr Fischer, I have listened to you carefully and given the quality and scale of the debate we are holding here today it would be wrong of me to start off by advising you what limit values you should change and which individual environmental legislative acts urgently need renewing, even if I would like to do so and indeed could do so in detail.
Let me nevertheless make a few comments that are very relevant to the dimension of which you spoke.
When you talk about an enlarging Europe, an enlarging European Union and a more integrated Europe, which is something we all want, then a few things must be quite clear.
It must be clear that there have to be and there are cross-sectional policy areas, which must also be regarded as such and treated differently.
Mr Wim van Velzen spoke of social policy.
That is certainly one example.
In this Parliament I speak for my group for environmental policy, consumer protection and health policy.
If we are serious about European integration we must also be serious about integrating these cross-sectional policies in other policy areas.
That means that environmental policy must become an integral part of transport policy, of energy policy and of economic policy - indeed it is also a motive force of employment policy.
We keep paying lip service to this - this German Government does the same.
However, I hope that it will become apparent after these six months that the earlier Cardiff summit and the forthcoming Cologne summit have produced more in this respect, that we actually see integral legislation that commits the Commission to integrating environmental policy in other areas too, including structural policy.
You spoke of transparency, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, and I cheekily interrupted, for which I apologise.
I know that the general public often do not know how legislation is made in the European Union.
In fact they are not quite sure how it is made in their own Member States either.
I do not approve of that, which is why I welcome your call for transparency.
But transparency also means that it must be clear what the Member States do with the EU legislation once they have approved it.
If it is the case, as was quite usual in Germany - and as can easily be proven - that Germany may well approve legislation, especially in the environmental area, but does not then transpose it into national law or does not check observance of the provisions, then that too is an offence against transparency and I would ask you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to do something about that too.
If we want to do something for people all over Europe - and that includes people in the applicant countries - then we must take make sure they can live in an environment worth living in.
We have talked a lot about foreign policy today and about very major issues.
That always makes me feel very small and humble and I try not to say much; but at the end of the day the issue is always the people who live in this world, this Europe.
These people breathe, these people have to eat and drink and exist in the environment.
If we do not manage to maintain an environment worth living in then we can no longer talk about foreign policy either.
That is why I urge you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, when you go home and when you go to Bonn, to remember that environmental policy must be a key component of German policy and also a key component of European integration.
Applause
