Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the determining event at the beginning of the German Presidency was certainly the introduction of the European currency.
That opened a new era for Europe.
Let me begin by saying, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, that I personally would have been pleased if the German finance minister had also been present for that important event on 31 December last year, like the other finance ministers.
What is the most important task now facing us?
It is to formulate a common economic policy for Europe, a common policy to combat unemployment.
The fight against unemployment involves many things that have to be done at national level.
But fighting unemployment also means securing future growth.
Here we find some concern being voiced.
The German Institute for Economics has forecast that growth could possibly fall to 1.4 % this year.
I do not think that is inconceivable.
But we do have to discuss the reasons why this is happening.
On the one hand, the world economic crisis is held responsible, the events in Asia, in America and elsewhere.
But I am convinced that these slowdowns in growth are partly homemade; one of the great tasks for the new German Government is to make the real situation clear to our enterprises.
For I have found from talks with many business people that when they are asked: 'why do you not invest, when interest rates are so low and the framework conditions so favourable?' they increasingly often reply: 'so long as the framework conditions are not clear, so long as we keep reading different things in the papers every week, we will not invest.'
That is one of the main tasks for your government to tackle.
In conclusion, let me address another important point, where we need some kind of legislation in the next six months.
The introduction of the euro is more or less a fait accompli .
But there remains a question that has not really been resolved, in relation to the year 2002.
Will that be the appointed date for the changeover or will the two currencies continue to exist side by side?
After many talks with retailers, with workers, with local authorities, I increasingly tend to think that to have a period during which the national currency is used side by side with the European currency would involve unnecessary costs, which those concerned cannot be expected to bear.
That is why we should jointly - meaning the Commission, the presidency of the Council and the European Parliament - take steps during these six months to ensure that 1 January 2002 is the appointed day for the introduction of euro notes and coins.
