Mr President, where cultural matters are concerned, it is the duty of the European Parliament to protect artists, stimulate creativity, strengthen society's creative powers and thus show respect for intellectual achievement.
That is our cultural duty, and it is one which the rapporteur has fulfilled admirably.
That is why the Socialist Group will be supporting this position.
The Commission proposal bears all the signs of a compromise.
Of course, with such diverse interests it is very difficult to reach a consensus, and of course there is room for improvement.
I should just like to mention two points which I think are very important.
The first concerns the limitations on copyright, in which context we have logically proposed providing compensation.
Limiting copyright is not synonymous with doing without compensation.
I know that this view was shared by some of the Commission.
I would be very grateful if the whole Commission would support these proposals.
The other point concerns the infamous Article 5(1).
I really do not understand the Commission here at all.
You see, by introducing Article 5(1), what the Commission does is abandon artists.
It leaves them unable to defend themselves against piracy.
Illegal distribution of works, of all things, is to be promoted, with artists being left defenceless.
Anyone acting in this way and actually giving preference to the interests of the distributors is no longer being objective.
I do not believe that the comments we have heard on this point in the public debate are accurate.
It is claimed that the Internet would grind to a halt or that services would not be able to work uninterrupted.
That is certainly not true.
That is why I make this urgent request: let us rectify this, the most dangerous point, as it continues to be in the amended Commission proposal.
Let us say no, we will equip artists and rightholders with the technical instruments, in particular, with which to defend themselves against piracy.
The Commission is not able to tell us today how it actually intends to do this.
I believe that we in the European Parliament should stand on the side of the artists, the rightholders, and that in so doing we are making our contribution to the intellectual development of the European Union.
