Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, I hope that the President-in-Office was right when he said that he had a feeling that the German Presidency was close to the mark.
I hope that he is not mistaken, because of course the German Presidency did not make life very easy for itself from the very start.
It made grand speeches at the end of last year setting itself high standards.
It also said what Germany ought to gain from all this, and we will see how this measures up.
In any case, there has been no improvement on the initial position of finding a compromise solution for the negotiations.
We in the European People's Party will be prepared to play a constructive role in this process - despite all that has been said - and to help to find a solution which will allow us to steer the European Union forward.
If you are to bring about an agreement which will benefit the European Union, you will of course also need the support of our group.
But this has to be a good agreement, not an agreement for its own sake, not an agreement at any price, but an agreement which makes sense, which respects budgetary discipline and which contains the necessary reforms, if we are to be able to support it, and if at the same time we are to retain scope for enlargement within the 1.27 % which you mentioned.
I believe that this is of crucial importance.
In addition, we must of course also say that the debate on rural areas and agriculture is a very important one for our group.
If degressive models are agreed which mean that farmers' income is reduced and if appropriations can only be spent in certain areas without being of benefit to agriculture itself, then this is a point which we will have to consider very carefully in terms of the overall balance.
This is certainly not something you did not already know.
Furthermore, it should also be said - and this is in the joint motion - that we are not prepared to put at stake the principles underlying the internal market in the negotiations on structural policy, and that controls on subsidies must continue to be recognised as one of the basic preconditions for the proper functioning of a common market and should not be abolished as part of the structural policy.
Of course, nor must we allow discussions held in connection with the employment pact to jeopardise the largest project which we have tackled for years, namely the introduction of the euro.
At this stage, we should stop reducing interest rates - this is also a request to the President-in-Office of the ECOFIN Council - as this will cause the value of the euro to fall still further.
We must make our contribution to stabilising the euro, and the German Presidency has a particular responsibility here.
I believe that this responsibility can be assumed in an appropriate manner in the latter part of the presidency.
With your permission, I will briefly address one final point.
The Cologne summit will establish a mandate for the next intergovernmental conference, and we should like to know from the German Presidency whether, when it is preparing this mandate, it will engage in a dialogue with the European Parliament about the issues which should take priority and be dealt with at an intergovernmental conference of this kind, and whether it is also prepared to involve the European Parliament in the negotiations on amendments to the Treaty, changes to the decision-making structures and so on.
Let me draw your attention one last time to one of Parliament's resolutions.
You will respect democracy in the European Union if you nominate the President of the Commission after the European Parliament elections, because if you make a nomination beforehand, which does not take account of the outcome of the Parliament elections, then you run the risk of the Council proposal being rejected by this House, and that is why we should rethink this timetable.
