Ladies and gentlemen, it is astonishing - or perhaps it is not - that today's debate is in fact being used as a platform for expounding different views on both economic policy and social and employment policy.
It may not be quite so astonishing, because unfortunately the election campaign has of course already started; were this not the case, then perhaps the speeches would have turned out somewhat differently.
Mr Menrad has tabled a good and reasonable report which my group can also support, provided our amendments are accepted.
He is right that we do not need to start from scratch with everything.
We have experience at national level in a few Member States, but at European level, formulating the Employment Pact and implementing it is new territory.
The national action plans were also new territory, and unlike the previous speaker, I strongly believe that the Luxembourg guidelines and the national action plans have contributed to the fall in unemployment.
Of course more needs to be done; no one is disputing that, and it is mentioned in both reports.
Although I am largely in agreement with you, Mr Menrad, I should like to mention a few further points on which our views differ, and nor do I think that the German Government has such a narrow view on this as you described, Mr Langen.
We obviously welcomed the stability pact, but an additional stability policy which strangles public budgets, robbing them of all political room for manoeuvre and making it impossible for them to create the necessary basic conditions in education, research and training, is no good to anyone.
That is not the kind of stability pact that we had in mind.
Nor is it sufficient - and Mrs Van Lancker is right here - for the ESF to be our only source of funding for employment policy; in any event, that is another matter which will have to be dealt with in the next parliamentary term.
Finally, I should like to give the German Presidency, which will be presenting the Employment Pact in Cologne, something to think about: please bear in mind that as a parliament, we obviously expect to be involved in this.
