Mr President, honoured colleagues, if we are talking today about the future Commission, then we are also talking about our political priorities.
And what do these include, Mr Prodi?
They incorporate areas of life which are among the most significant for human beings and which are of importance every day for us and our children.
Examples include clean air and drinkable water, safe food which does not poison people, the safeguarding of their personal economic interests and the development of a basic standard of health within the European Union.
In the course of the hearings before the relevant committees, Margot Wallström and David Byrne have shown brilliantly and convincingly, as well as to the satisfaction of the committees, that these priorities have been recognised and that full commitment will be given to this policy and to its fulfilment.
How, though, do such policy areas become political realities and priorities?
That can only happen with the support of the whole Commission around the Commission table and with the support of the President of the Commission, that is to say of yourself, Mr Prodi.
So, can we be hopeful?
I have been asking myself that question for a number of days now and, Mr Prodi, I have been asking it whenever I hear a speech by you.
That is four or five in all now.
I will also tell you the answer.
I am not hopeful.
My impression is that, in the past, you have merely been paying lip service.
And because it was too much trouble, you do not do it at all now.
In your speech today, you did not say a word, not a single word, about environmental policy.
You mentioned sustainable development once.
This is a compulsory exercise which everyone engages in.
You did not say a word, not a single word, about consumer protection and safe food.
And that is after BSE and dioxin!
You used the word "health" in connection with the economy and sport.
You betray your ignorance here, Mr Prodi, not that of your Commission, merely your own.
Mrs Wallström and Mr Byrne have quite clearly come through their examinations before the European Parliament with flying colours.
But they will probably often feel themselves to be alone around the Commission table, for you, Mr Prodi, have no idea about the interests of people inside the European Union despite the fact that you are always spouting about the "European soul" .
You say you have learned lessons.
So what lessons have you learned, Mr Prodi, other than that enterprise is important?
You have shown in the past that you do not seriously mean what you say, and so you no longer say anything at all.
I am telling you quite clearly, Mr Prodi, you have not passed the examination as far as I am concerned.
So far, you have clearly failed it.
So if I vote "yes" tomorrow, it is because of your esteemed colleagues, Mr Prodi, and not because of you.
If, when voting, I was able to differentiate between yourself and your colleagues, you would get a clear "no" and all the others a clear "yes" .
In football, a good team with a bad coach would never reach the top of the league.
I only hope that the future Commission will overturn this rule.
