Madam President, when you look at the Commission communication on nuclear sector related activities for CEEC and NIS states and at the Court of Auditors' report, you could be forgiven for thinking that they were about two totally different subjects.
Given that the Commission claims that its communication gives an overview of funding provided and successes to date, together with new guidelines on programme implementation, the document we are considering, with just 13 pages of text and 17 pages of annexes, really is an outrage.
Nebulous statements such as - and I am quoting now - ' the European Union has undertaken a great number of activities in the nuclear sector since 1990' and 'special programmes were created with considerable budgetary appropriations' are not what I would call an evaluation!
The passage in the communication about radioactive waste management is a real gem of vacuity.
Let me quote the following: 'The radioactive waste programme is giving many CEEC/NIS organisations and institutes a wide insight into western technology and safety culture, and this has helped to specify problems in this area and to better define concrete implementation projects'.
I think these gentlemen must have been peering into a very deep hole indeed!
What projects, what problems?
What form does the EU participation envisaged take?
Bearing in mind that we do not have a permanent storage solution anywhere in the EU, but just shift waste around from one country to another and then dump it at some interim storage facility, that really is rich!
Participation by eastern European countries in EU research programmes is portrayed as being highly successful, but we are not given any evidence of this alleged success.
Or do we call it a success story when despite the agreements entered into under the Nuclear Safety Account for the closure of high-risk reactors, all of these reactors are still operating?
The Commission and the Council have specifically stressed the importance of this agreement on closures, so I find it all the more amazing that the rapporteur has simply ignored this, instead of stepping up pressure on these states.
It is simply not acceptable for us to be using EU tax revenues to increase the danger, instead of minimising it!
The rapporteur's assumption that building new nuclear reactors increases pressure to close down older ones is spurious.
On the contrary, as history has shown, old reactors which should have been scrapped will continue to operate and export power until they blow up in our faces.
And what is more, the disposal problem has not been solved in these countries and the risks of proliferation are mounting.
We should not be using EU tax revenues to create new markets for EDF.
It is generally accepted that it is cheaper to build combined-cycle gas turbines and to encourage energy efficiency measures.
There is no evidence that the money spent so far has in any way had the desired effect, and it is high time that the Commission recognised this and changed its policy.
So, although Mr van den Broek has already left again, I would like to ask when we can expect a new communication based on the real facts.
And I would like to have an answer this evening!
