Madam President, the fewer of us there are, the more we need to keep to our speaking time, and I will do my best!
Firstly, I would like to thank Mr Adam very sincerely for his report.
The more I read through it, the more it strikes me just how excellent it is.
I urge Parliament to treat this subject very seriously and to read the Adam report in detail.
The message is clear: we need cooperation, not refusal.
Older reactors, especially first generation reactors, need to be decommissioned as quickly as possible, while modern plants need to be upgraded, and we particularly need to cooperate with the CEECs and the New Independent States to develop an all-embracing energy policy.
The more the eastern electricity network is connected to the western network, the more important this issue is becoming, as these countries will use their nuclear power stations to sell power to the West as a means of earning income.
So it is by no means irrelevant to ask how this power is produced.
What is more, the applicant countries - this is what I wanted to say during the debate just now - must also observe other environmental regulations.
Not only nuclear power stations but also large combustion plant, cars and every single factory will have to adhere to the EU's environmental legislation.
We cannot make any exceptions for nuclear power stations.
Nevertheless, there is one point that I would like to make, and I shall address this primarily to the Commission.
It is not just a question of telling each other here in this forum how important all this is - we also need to draw attention to deficiencies.
I was recently told about this by a German nuclear power station, Neckar-Westheim, which has been working with Zaporazhye for 10 years on improvements to valves.
As you will be aware - and if not, I am telling you now - an accident took place there on 20 April 1995 along the lines of the Harrisburg incident.
Similar incidents have also taken place at two other nuclear power stations in Russia.
They should have reacted pretty quickly - it was only a problem with valves, a simple technical matter.
Yet it has taken four years, and up to now nothing has happened, although an application has been made.
Now there has to be an invitation to tender.
If your house was on fire, can you imagine getting quotes to see which fire brigade was the cheapest?
Your house would have burnt down by the time they got there!
We need to apply different procedures in this case, and Gordon Adam is quite right in drawing attention to paragraph 20, which states very clearly what we should be doing.
That is why I am asking for swifter action before the whole thing packs up!
