Mr President, I am gradually losing any faith in chance.
I also believe that the Conference of Presidents, sadly, does not attach very great importance to environmental issues.
But some day the people of Europe will call them to account.
Parliament is to adopt stricter EU pollution limits in order to ensure better air quality.
Just like the previous speakers, I regret that only 21 of the 28 parliamentary amendments adopted at the first reading have been accepted in letter or in spirit.
The aim of this directive is therefore to establish emission limits on the basis of the World Health Organisation's air quality guidelines.
The report even provides for a very sharp reduction in the limits for particulates, and compliance with the envisaged limits will require a considerable effort in most of the Member States.
It lays down uniform methods and criteria, applicable throughout Europe, to help prevent any further harmful effects of atmospheric pollution on human health and the environment.
The European Union is thus introducing the strict limits that have long applied in Austria.
In some cases, they have turned out to be even stricter.
I am pleased about that.
Nevertheless, I am by no means entirely happy with all the details of the report.
Annex I(I) lays down limits and alarm thresholds for sulphur dioxide, and the proposed limit of 350 grams per cubic metre with 24 overshoots is far too high in my opinion.
The reduction envisaged in the maximum number of overshoots from 24 to 8, while not satisfying my wish for a lower concentration limit, is undoubtedly a step in the right direction and will therefore have our support.
In Annex II(I) on NO2 and NOx limits and the alarm threshold for nitrogen dioxide, I should welcome the complete deletion of any right to exceed these limits.
Here too, the amendment tabled by Mrs Pollack reducing the number of overshoots from 18 to 8 is a step in the right direction and will also have the support of my group.
I know that Mrs Pollack has taken a great deal of trouble with this report, and even though it has not turned out to be everything an environmentalist could wish for, I should like to offer her my sincere congratulations on her report.
And finally, my wish for all of us here is that we shall perhaps be able one day to conduct a debate on environmental affairs in the morning.
