Thank you, Mr President.
I very much welcome the fact that the Council firstly wants to adopt a common strategy with Russia.
According to the Treaty of Amsterdam a common strategy requires the consultation of the European Parliament.
In view of Parliament's schedule the Council feels that consultation is not possible if the common strategy is to be decided at the June summit, as the final draft of the document will not be available until 17 May.
It is therefore particularly important that we make it clear to the Council that the procedure of a report with recommendations to the Council on a common strategy is a one-off solution because of the elections.
In all future common strategies Parliament will insist on being consulted by the Council.
I should like to look at a few issues of substance, although it is difficult to make recommendations about a text that we do not have before us.
I would like to emphasise one point in particular: I would oppose the rapporteur's endeavours to postpone the common strategy on our relations with Russia, which is of the utmost importance at this present juncture, as the strategy goes far beyond bilateral relations with this country.
Both the Member States and the Commission have stated clearly that any delay in adopting the strategy could be misinterpreted by the Russians, and I believe that it is in all our interests to avoid any increase in tension between the European Union and Russia in the current complicated international situation.
Russia's efforts to solve the conflict in the Balkans serve only to further underline the importance of this country for Europe's security structure, and I very much support the President-in-Office's desire to adopt this strategy as quickly as possible.
The European Union's policy towards the Russian Federation has not always been exemplary to date, but I would hope that the combination of a comprehensive strategy and the new TACIS regulation that is due to enter into force in the year 2000 will lead to a significant improvement in decision-making and implementation in the European Union's policy on Russia.
