Mr President, the struggle for equality between men and women has seen some significant successes but has also suffered some bitter setbacks.
The 1995 Kalanke ruling, which found in favour of a man who believed he had been discriminated against because an equally qualified female colleague was given preference over him, belongs in the second category.
The ruling stated that, given identical qualifications, it was an infringement of Community law for female candidates automatically to be given preference.
The Commission amended its directive and argued that a rigid quota system that did not take account of individual circumstances was unlawful, while positive action - for instance flexible quotas - was lawful.
Our Committee on Women's Rights regarded the proposal as a whole as not very useful and warned against any watering down of the directive.
While the Kalanke ruling was a setback, the European Court of Justice's decision in the 1997 Marschall judgment was encouraging.
Laws that give priority to women but also allow individual cases to be assessed and do not exclude men from the outset are absolutely consistent with Community law.
Accordingly, positive action measures must be taken to remove the still considerable inequalities on the labour market and in regard to promotion.
At the time the Commission was waiting for the Court of Justice's judgment and for the negotiations in the run-up to the Amsterdam Treaty.
So it would be consistent for you, Commissioner, to take a similar approach today.
Articles 2 and 3 of the Amsterdam Treaty stipulate that equality between men and women is a task and an aim.
All active policies will pursue that aim in future.
So I would ask you to accept the plea by Astrid Lulling, our as ever pugnacious rapporteur, which the European People's Party will of course approve again.
Withdraw your proposal to amend the directive; it dates from the time after the Kalanke and before the Marschall ruling, so it is certainly old enough!.
A new proposal must respect the evaluation of equal opportunities as a Community task, as it must the specific advantages allowed in Article 119 for the under-represented sex in the Member States of the European Union.
