I have just voted for the motion of censure against the European Commission because of the incorrect, incompetent and scandalous manner in which two Commissioners have performed their duties.
In December, the Commission itself, in a flight of rhetoric, inappropriately dubbed the refusal of a majority in the Parliament to give it a discharge in respect of the 1996 budget as a 'crisis of faith'.
At the time of that vote, the leader of the Socialist Group, Mrs Green, gave notice of a motion of censure in the hope of effectively achieving a vote of confidence for lack of sufficient votes.
Her feeble tactics, including her theatrical withdrawal of the motion of censure today, will not be forgotten in the forthcoming European elections.
The two Socialist Commissioners who stand accused, Mrs Cresson and Mr Marín, have not acceded to the request that they should resign, which was supported by a large majority of the PPE Group and unanimously by the German group of Christian Democrats.
Confidence in the present Commission has therefore been permanently damaged, as demonstrated by the result of the vote, 232 to 293.
Mrs Cresson is responsible for the lamentable management of Leonardo, and for mismanagement of funds, nepotism and considerable irregularities in the commissioning of external consultants.
Similarly, Mr Marín has failed to demonstrate economical management and effective implementation of funds and financial control in accordance with regulations.
Neither has so far been prepared to accept full responsibility for their actions.
Furthermore, last week Mrs Cresson again repeatedly demonstrated her contempt for the European Parliament.
Her attempt to trivialise accusations of fraud and to portray herself as the 'victim' of 'conspiracies' originating in Germany is laughable.
The Commission has had time enough to root out these problems, as the European Parliament decided to defer the discharge back in March 1998.
So far, there has been no sign of any follow-up regarding the serious errors made in managing external policies such as ECHO, MED, PHARE and TACIS or the suspicions of corruption on the part of officials.
We have not been given a relevant list of all internal investigations on fraud prevention, and the European Parliament's democratic control has been hindered by documents being withheld, censored or forged.
During today's voting I also voted again the committee of wise men suggested by the Commission President in his eight-point plan.
We do not need an additional outside committee of inquiry that will not be able to complete its work in just a few weeks anyway.
I regret this majority decision, which is tantamount to the European Parliament depriving itself of its own rights.
In addition to the European Court of Auditors there is another powerful monitoring body, the European Parliament's own Committee on Budgetary Control.
That committee is the place for financial investigations.
I am in favour of a strong European Commission, but it will only remain efficient and effective if it is cleaned up.
It would have been in the Commission's own interest to clear up irregularities, sack corrupt officials and protect those officials who are competent, conscientious and reliable.
It needs to reform itself from within by means of a code of conduct on the appointment of senior officials and appropriate staff regulations.
The culture of cronyism and hiding behind collective decision-making has to come to an end.
Every member of the Commission must be prepared willing to answer for his area of responsibility.
Our citizens have a right to expect a transparent, fair and hard-working Europe which manages the funds entrusted to it with due care.
They also have a right to expect Members of Parliament to exercise their control functions without resorting to party-political tactics.
