Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I regret that this interesting debate and your equally interesting statement have been overshadowed by today's other events.
But I am grateful to you for staying on.
It is a very encouraging sign of the positive attitude of the Council presidency and the Council towards Parliament.
I have three points to make.
First, I am very grateful that you went into considerable detail on the subject of eastward enlargement.
As Parliament's rapporteur on eastward enlargement and internal security, I of course think that these are pivotal subjects.
I have in mind not only the pre-accession strategy and the acquis communautaire , but also a series of measures ranging from jointly combating crime to Europol's eastward extension, which can be anticipated by means of agreements with the police in the applicant countries.
I also have in mind the vital area of education and training, which requires some restructuring of the PHARE programme, but it has been possible to achieve a great deal already.
There are also two long-term objectives which I have mentioned in my report, and which I want to drawn your attention to.
One is the protection of Europe's future external borders.
I believe that we need to provide support measures to prepare for a common European border protection system, because I feel that we will need such a system in the long term.
I would also point out that we have proposed a European academy for internal security.
The Austrian Presidency was fairly receptive to this idea and I hope that you will seriously consider this project, which would be situated in the border area between the EU and the applicant countries.
Second, I would like to mention the topic of burden sharing.
We need an EU burden-sharing system with quotas for civil war refugees and asylum seekers.
The Austrian Presidency and the European Parliament have carried out some important preparatory work in this area too.
We will judge this presidency by the progress it makes in this field.
Thirdly, without wishing to spark off any internal policy debate, I would ask you to defer the sensitive subjects of citizenship law and thus of EU citizenship law in the individual Member States ...
The President cut the speaker off
