Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would firstly like, also on behalf of my group, to express my thanks and appreciation to the rapporteur, Mr Cabrol, for leading the negotiations.
I believe this subject - the link between pollution and health - is an important one.
It is also an issue which greatly concerns the people of Europe, and I do not believe that it is simply a question of exaggerated fears.
Pollution has repercussions for health, and we must focus more closely on this.
This programme can make only a modest contribution, however.
It cannot solve the problem of pollution-related illnesses; it can merely develop strategies or help to develop strategies.
For this reason, our group, unlike the Commission and the Group of the Party of European Socialists, agreed from the beginning that we immediately need an integrated programme that includes all aspects of public health and also this programme.
At first reading we were therefore against a five-year period and in favour of a three-year period.
However, we did not agree that funds should be cut in the way that was unfortunately proposed and ultimately implemented by the Council of Ministers, as with slightly greater resources we could have done more in the first three years, including preparing for a comprehensive health programme.
I regret especially that the specific measures such as in the area of allergies were deleted from the annex, and my group and I regret in particular the fact that self-help groups were no longer expressly mentioned, as I believe that we would have genuine added value if the European Union supported self-help groups and exchanges between them, but this is unfortunately no longer referred to in the programme.
However, I would call upon the Commission, within the scope offered by the programme, to support those self-help groups which are committed to pollution-related illnesses and to combating these illnesses.
It is very important to me and to my group that this programme should not merely produce figures that are put to one side and forgotten, as it is all very well to collate data at European level but none of this is of any use if we do not take concrete action.
The Commission and the Council of Ministers have in the past been too hesitant.
For example, in terms of car exhaust emissions Parliament had to force through the introduction of strict standards and ensure that the ozone problem was really approached effectively in Europe.
I believe that we must also take health aspects into account as part of the CO2 question, as illnesses that have to date existed only in the tropics will appear in Europe as a result of global warming, and there will also be other problems.
We must also take concrete action in the area of consumer health protection if this programme is to serve any purpose.
We must include the recommendations that are developed from this in our legislation in other areas too.
