Mr President, the German Presidency's report and the way the Agenda 2000 negotiations stand - or perhaps I should say the state they are in - give cause for serious concern.
The political rhetoric and the financial perspectives are significantly out of kilter.
We are seeing a repeat, on a large scale, of the complaints made at the last part-session and, on a small scale, of those made during the Socrates debate.
The Commission comes along with an ambitious proposal: it proposes more tasks, more partners and higher quality.
And then along comes the Council of savings club ministers and hardly any of it is possible any more!
If we take a look at the figures and the proposals on structural and agricultural reform, we are faced with the same dilemma.
Two weeks before Berlin, we are still a long way from the noble aims of which the Treaty itself speaks - solidarity, cohesion and the common agricultural policy.
For the current year 1999, for example, EUR 216 billion is budgeted for regional policy.
In the longer term, the Commission has requested EUR 240 billion and at present a whole series of Member States is offering EUR 190 billion.
That cannot add up!
The gap is almost wider still for the agricultural funds.
The President-in-Office spoke of austerity constraints, but obviously some see making savings as the true objective of agricultural reform.
That would be a catastrophe for rural areas.
Many issues also still need to be clarified in greater detail, in particular those associated with the phasing-out arrangements: how much money will there be here, and for how long?
Only sketchy information has been given about the Community initiatives, and we can only hope - and I am also directing this request to President Santer - that the detailed proposals will actually be presented before the end of March.
You see all of this adds to the importance we attach to a fundamental question.
On 1 May, the Treaty of Amsterdam will enter into force.
Parliament will then have full powers of codecision for the ERDF and the European Social Fund.
How are we supposed to exercise these if the texts are not available in good time?
