Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are only just beginning to feel the knock-on effects of the financial crisis which has created such a stir over the last few months.
As we predicted, the crisis in South-East Asia has had global repercussions.
The collapse of the financial system in the Far East has led to weaker market demand there.
The question that has been raised today in the House can only be the beginning of a very fundamental debate on this problem.
The European economy, in so far as it has been adversely affected by the crisis, is legitimately entitled to financial support in the sectors affected.
This is the background to our question.
So far the EU has in large part been able to cushion the changing trade conditions which have arisen as a result of the crisis and has also borne the corresponding financial burdens.
No other market, not even the American market, has had to cope with such a substantial rise in imports both in terms of absolute figures and percentages.
The European market is now being swamped with goods which would normally be exported to markets in the Far East.
Not only does this development look set to continue, but it will accelerate.
The damage inflicted on the European steel market, for example, will be further exacerbated by the dishonest trade practices implemented in certain countries.
In this connection, the intention of the American steel industry to solve the problem through draconian trade-policy measures, or protectionist measures, constitutes a serious threat to the EU market.
I call upon the Commission to see to it that the United States Administration is left in no doubt that, if it does not demonstrate solidarity in such matters but, on the contrary, resorts to dishonest measures, it will have to reckon with severe countermeasures on the part of the European Union.
If the EU does not adopt a clear and unambiguous position, the USA will make further attempts to push forward its own world trade policy.
In view of the fact that European industry is clearly in no way to blame for the present critical situation in the US market, in which it has operated extremely well over a long period of time, the United States must be called upon, at the highest political level, to ensure that there is a fairer trade policy.
The USA and Europe play a leading role in the WTO.
Conduct that is less than exemplary would be disadvantageous for both sides.
