Madam President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Commission, rather than the whole of Europe, was embroiled in a profound crisis - of that there is no doubt - and that the crisis had already gone on too long.
To that extent, the resignation of the Commission is only logical; it is a salutary shock that clears the way for the rebirth of credibility.
The soul of Europe is embodied in its people, who rely on their representatives to continue the work of unification democratically and efficiently to the best of their knowledge and judgement - in a word, responsibly.
The Commission that has just resigned, however, had lost the confidence of Parliament and the people.
That is why the first and foremost requirement is the earliest possible appointment of a new Commission, headed by a strong European personality, a Commission that is determined to serve until the year 2004.
The ball is in the Council's court, and it must come up quickly with the necessary proposals.
I believe this has to take place before the elections to demonstrate to the public that we can get things done.
At the same time, I am well aware that, before the elections, parliamentary assent is still governed by the Maastricht rules, but it is the spirit of Amsterdam that will determine the political implications of our assent.
That is why the new President of the Commission must be granted the right to demand the resignation of individual Commissioners who transgress.
But the need for reform applies to every institution.
The constitutional fabric of Europe, the balance between the institutions, the need for greater powers of legal redress for the citizens of the Union - all of these things have been on the agenda since at least the last intergovernmental conference in Amsterdam.
For that reason, Mr Verheugen, I should like to propose that, when you give the starting signal for the next intergovernmental conference under your presidency, you involve the European Parliament from the outset and ensure that we are not left standing outside the gates again when the chips are down.
This crisis is simply crying out for the establishment of a new relationship between the Council and Parliament.
Grasp that opportunity now!
