Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the resignation of the Commission was justified and necessary on the basis of the Wise Men's report, and I am pleased to see so many of my honourable colleagues coming out in support of this report and its outcome, even though they originally opposed the appointment of the Committee of Wise Men.
But we all live and learn.
Secondly, the Wise Men's report was hard, but it was not unfair, because I believe that the less say the public have in how their money is spent, the stricter must be the criteria governing the administration of financial transactions.
Thirdly, the European Commission had to resign, because it was too weak in many respects in relation to the Council.
On the other hand, it often made a point of showing its muscle to Parliament.
Fourthly, we need a strong Commission with a strong President.
Only that sort of Commission will be a worthy and fitting partner for Parliament.
But being strong also means being open, transparent and certainly not secretive.
Point five: we need a new balance between the collegiate nature of the Commission and individual responsibility.
The public must be aware of the collective responsibility borne by the whole Commission, but also of every individual Commissioner's accountability.
Point six: some people are talking about the Commission crisis as if it were a crisis of the entire European Union, but the EU must stand the test, and it will, especially if it responds quickly, and I hope that the presidency can impose itself at the Council meeting in Berlin.
Point seven: we need a new team, not just a new President.
The Commission must be visibly renewed with new faces.
Point eight: some people see the incapacity and the mistakes of the Commission as an opportunity and a summons to weaken the Commission and even the EU.
That is the wrong way to react, and I deplore such an attitude.
Point nine: we have achieved a great deal in this Union, and indeed with the Commission that has now resigned, but I believe that a common economic area and a common currency are not enough.
And so point ten is that we must continue on the road leading to environmental and social union, on the road leading to political union, and we need a Commission and a Commission President who will not shirk any of their responsibility for the pursuit of these goals.
