Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there remain a great many important issues to be discussed this week in Parliament: the nomination of the new Commission President, Mr Prodi, Agenda 2000 and many more besides.
The framework directive on dietetic foods does not appear to be the most important issue here, as is evident, moreover, by the number of Members present.
However, I believe that there are some important points which need to be addressed here.
Mrs Sandbæk has already addressed the particularly contentious issue of pesticides in baby foods; this issue concerns the health of babies and small children.
I believe that the public would not understand it if Europe agreed to reduce this issue to its lowest common denominator; what is important here is the precautionary principle.
As Members of Parliament, we have always insisted on this precautionary principle and stated that pesticides have no business being in baby foods, and we have also made this clear by means of an amendment.
I am very satisfied with the outcome of the conciliation procedure - as is my group - since this principle was adopted in the course of the conciliation procedure, obviously not as part of the conciliation procedure, but politically as part of the negotiations.
I should like to reiterate clearly that as Members of Parliament we have relied on scientific opinion whatever the issue, such as the opinions expressed by ESPEGAM, for example, which has clearly stated that as long as there is no ADI for infants, an extremely strict value of virtually zero needs to be set.
I should like to thank the Commission which - I want to get this right - has resigned, but which is still in office.
It has not been an easy time.
I think that, exceptionally, Mr Bangemann can also be singled out on this issue for having supported the campaign for consumer protection.
I regret the fact that he initially experienced so much resistance within the Commission, particularly from Mrs Bonino, who should in fact have supported consumer protection.
However, a happy outcome is worth waiting for.
We have obtained a good result, and we shall be able to give our assent tomorrow.
