Mr President, we keep changing the subject in this debate.
It is not really appropriate, but I will now move on to the subject of the organisation of the market in wine.
We have heard that there are certainly many things to find fault with in the part of the Agenda 2000 package that deals with agricultural policy.
We must praise the Commission, the Council presidency, Mr Funke, and also Parliament for the progress made in one area; Mr Fischler, you took a long time to put forward such a good proposal, and you refused to withdraw the old one for a long time.
Together we have managed to reform the organisation of the market in wine reasonably well, and I believe that after holding a debate like this one, we should not only voice criticism, but we should also give praise.
It is sad that there is no wine here for those attending the last evening sitting of this parliamentary term.
Mr Funke was certainly present when the former Federal Chancellor, Helmut Kohl, announced his watchword for the future wine-growing policy on German National Wine Day: we must drink more.
A quotation from the past!
However, I should like to get back to the point.
We have pushed through Parliament's demands in this reform of the wine market, and I can only emphasise here once again that it would be a good thing if Parliament were able to take part in the decision-making in the future, since we have mastered horse-trading in this House just as well as the Council.
What has come out of the organisation of the market in wine is in any case praiseworthy.
Corrections have been made to the regulations on distillation and the rights for planting new vines.
The Member States have greater individual responsibility.
It is now possible to set up inter-branch organisations throughout the whole of Europe.
The reform includes programmes financed by the EU for restructuring, switching to different varieties, and modernisation of production techniques.
The Council retains its powers.
After all, we do not want to give the Commission too many powers, for instance over regulations on labelling and oenological practices.
We must therefore preserve the traditional growing methods in Europe.
Mr Fischler has also recognised and actively supported this.
We are therefore satisfied with the reform, and I think that the broad agreement on the organisation of the market in wine has been a great achievement for Parliament.
Only those who know of the dispute that has taken place in the last five years within Parliament over the issue of the organisation of the market in wine are in a position to appreciate how much progress has been made.
I should like to thank you all, and I hope that we will have the opportunity to drink to this outcome with a glass of wine in the next parliamentary term, if not this evening.
