Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the representative of the Council presidency has not been welcomed by name, so I do not know whom I should be addressing at this moment.
But I do hope that a representative is here.
Mr President, in the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs, on behalf of which I speak here, there have been serious concerns that the Council might not manage to arrive at decisions in time to incorporate the Schengen Agreement into the European Union and that the relevant legal instruments would then automatically become part of the third pillar.
That is why the fact that this agreement has been reached and that the decisions have indeed been taken has been greeted with a degree of relief.
That is the good news I am able to give the presidency.
The bad news is that the way in which these decisions and stipulations were made has drawn heavy criticism and even protests from the overwhelming majority of our committee, and I hope that the House will share our indignation, because this is a very important matter in terms of parliamentary control and codetermination in the field of internal security.
The Amsterdam Treaty itself dealt with the incorporation of the Schengen agreement, the institutional issues, the distribution of powers and the procedural arrangements in an extremely questionable and vague manner, namely by relegating these matters to an additional protocol.
I do believe we must dwell on the significance of this line of approach in order to appreciate fully the nature of the criticism voiced by the committee and by Parliament.
The incorporation of the Schengen Agreement into the European Union is surely the most important and the most complex transformation of international law into the law of the European Union.
It lays the foundations on which the freedom of the individual can be enshrined in EU law, it is the means by which the Union can become an area in which freedom, justice and security are guaranteed, and it is certainly the most significant increase of powers in the field of internal security.
It is a transfer of power that will have a massive impact on fundamental rights and civil liberties.
Let me ask the presidency of the Council at this point how the European institutions, and particularly the elected representatives of the European people, are to explain to the public that such a project can be implemented without involving Parliament, without informing or consulting Parliament.
How are we supposed to explain that this Parliament has not even been accorded the right to deliver an opinion, that we have not even received detailed documentation and information about this scheme, and that we now have to discuss it without actually having been briefed on its details?
Allow me to voice the view of the absolute majority of the committee by saying that this is not only a matter of the rights of Parliament, important though they may be; one of the roles in which this Parliament has always seen itself is as the advocate of fundamental rights, of civil liberties, of personal rights in the European Union, and it is difficult to serve as the advocate of the European people if we are excluded in this way from Council projects, an exclusion which we believe is contrary to the letter of the Treaty; no doubt we shall have to agree to differ once again on that point, but in any event our exclusion is entirely contrary to the spirit of the Treaties.
Perhaps I should also point out that the Council's approach once more raises the question of whether the theory of the Council's indirect legitimacy as a legislative authority stands up to scrutiny in the light of such occurrences, because the European Parliament is not the only legitimate representative body discussing these matters without the aid of documentation and being excluded from the Council's decisions and preparations; as we know, our national parliaments have been informed inadequately and at the last possible moment.
In other words, we can no longer speak of genuine parliamentary control in the field of internal security, of police and judicial cooperation.
That is the particular protest, the vehement protest, of the committee that I bring to your attention today, and it is not only on behalf of our committee that I call on the presidency of the Council to develop an entirely new culture of cooperation with Parliament in this extremely sensitive area of government authority and power in the domain of civil liberties and fundamental rights.
