Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is increasingly apparent that the Austrian strategy paper on asylum and immigration in Europe has become the basis for an extremely productive and, above all, necessary discussion.
It is necessary because asylum and immigration will be communitised with the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Even if they are dependent on unanimous Council decisions for the next five years, they will still be removed from the jurisdiction of the Member States and transferred to the Community.
This means that in the areas of asylum and immigration we must force ourselves to think in Community terms, and that is the task of this Parliament.
I would like to focus on one point here.
I believe that we in Europe and here in the European Parliament must answer one question very clearly, a question that is fundamental to this whole discussion: generally speaking, do we in Europe want to take in immigrants or not?
And here I am not talking about political refugees.
There is absolutely no question that these are to be taken in, a point which cannot seriously be disputed by anyone.
I am not talking either about civil war refugees, other quota refugees or family reunification.
I am discussing only the basic issue of whether we in Europe wish to take in immigrants, as we are occasionally asked to do.
Here I would say, ladies and gentlemen, that Europe is not an immigration area like the United States was in the last century and possibly still is today, or like Australia, New Zealand, Canada or any other countries which desperately sought people to fill up their space.
We are not in that situation: on the contrary, we have 20 million unemployed.
As a result of this we have no choice but to restrict immigration.
I would like to emphasise once again that I am not talking about asylum and related issues but only about immigration, and particularly illegal immigration.
In my view it is irresponsible to reject the Eurodac Convention when we consider that 80 % of illegal immigrants are victims of trafficking networks that cynically exploit the misery and suffering of these people.
One of the things that is needed in order to put a stop to their activities is the signing of the Eurodac Convention.
Those who reject is are playing straight into the hands of the smuggling networks by voting against it.
Please consider this.
On the subject of asylum we are essentially in agreement.
Everyone here is in favour of granting asylum to the victims of political persecution.
We now need to settle the matter of the procedure.
Should all asylum seekers in Europe have an individual procedure or must we resign ourselves to considering institutional guarantees?
I believe that speedy processing is particularly in the interest of applicants for asylum.
For this reason we must open up this second possibility.
