Madam President, I should also like to begin, of course, by expressing my sincere thanks to the rapporteur, who in my opinion has truly produced a very, very good piece of work.
I believe that when we speak of Albania, we must not forget that it is a country which has had to make an unimaginably huge leap forward within a few years and still has an enormous amount of ground to make up.
During the Enver Hoxha era the country was virtually dragged back into the Stone Age, and now it needs to progress by leaps and bounds at a time when the entire surrounding region is far from stable.
I believe our aid can only be a drop in the ocean, but it may serve a useful purpose inside the country, helping to overcome the barriers that exist there.
We must remember that Albania is divided into two large areas, the north and the south, with the Gegs and the Tosks respectively, traditional enemies who naturally continued to wage war during the Stone Age into which Enver Hoxha led the country, and that many of the conflicts we see today have their roots in that antithesis.
It is even reflected in the party structure we find in Albania today.
The new Albanian constitution has naturally raised high hopes.
I very much hope that it will be possible to give the opposition a suitably constructive role to play in the Albanian political system, because I believe it has adopted very constructive positions in many areas.
Only then will it be possible for Albania to bring the problems with its neighbours under some sort of control.
Naturally - and this has been emphasised several times this evening - it will be necessary to introduce appropriate verification mechanisms.
Only if these mechanisms exist, particularly in relation to the Albanian democratisation process, will the aid from the European Union be able to achieve anything.
Many other verification measures have been mentioned, especially the mechanisms designed to curb the corruption, the arms trade and the drug trafficking that exist in Albania.
We cannot achieve complete control in these areas; we can only do a little here to help the Albanians to help themselves, but we should do whatever we can.
In that respect, Mrs van Bladel's report and the efficient aid that should result from it represent a step in the right direction.
