Mr President, I should like to welcome the President-in-Office.
Ladies and gentlemen, reconciliation with Russia is the most crucial peace strategy for our continent.
In this respect the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia without a UN mandate represents the most criminal violation of this principle.
The Western community has cast aside the peace principle in view of the massive human rights violations and ethnic expulsions in Kosovo.
However, in my opinion it is a mistake whose consequences will set us back for a long time in our attempt to develop a common security strategy in Europe.
The end never justifies the means as the results for our continent cannot yet be predicted.
I would like to touch on a few of these.
Firstly, every bomb makes the return to the negotiating table more difficult.
I see only one way out: Russia must be given an increasingly central role in the political solution.
Attempts have been made, but Russia's offers to negotiate have to date been rejected and in the end it has not been given this role after all.
Secondly, the Washington option of taking military action without a UN mandate and against international practice forces Russia to define its own zones of influence and to assert its right to do the same here.
We need think only of the many conflicts in North Caucasia and Transcaucasia and the dangers that have re-emerged there too.
Thirdly, the ABM Treaty and the ratification of START 2 are likely to be indefinitely postponed, and with them goes our desire for worldwide disarmament which ties up so many financial and material resources.
Therefore it is important that we develop a common strategy, and that we do so as the first act under the new opportunities offered by a common foreign and security policy.
But it must not be used as an alibi.
I would also say that unless there is interinstitutional change in terms of involving the European Parliament's democratic right of control, then we will have less power of influence over foreign policy than we have had up to now.
This is why we need interinstitutional change.
