Madam President, Madam Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I would first like to thank you for this opportunity to discuss this interesting subject with you here today, a subject of great importance to the citizens of the Member States of the European Union.
I welcome the fact that we are not just discussing these issues today alone.
Continuing the theme already embarked upon by Mr Schily, we are at an interesting point in time.
As you, Mr Nassauer, pointed out, we are today in the unusual situation of not only having to report on the events and progress of the last year, that is on the achievements of the British and Austrian Presidencies.
We also have to give you a short overview of the German Presidency's plans for the next six months.
It is good that today is not the only chance to do this, and I am delighted that we shall have an opportunity to continue this discussion about our plans and the problems informing our decisions over the coming week in the relevant committees of this House.
For that reason, I hope you will forgive me if I limit my presentation here to a few significant points.
Mr Nassauer, I would like to start with a few general comments about relations between the Council and the European Parliament.
I am very much in sympathy with your suggestions.
We must certainly heed your comments about democratic control in areas which we have always traditionally felt - and I am sure rightly so - are subject to the law-making process.
I have read the passages in the motion for a resolution to be debated today with great interest.
You can rest assured that we will do what we can, within the bounds of the Treaty, to further enhance relations between the Council and Parliament.
Looking back over the events of the past year, in the areas on which I have to report today, of course, it is fair to say that on the whole relations between the Council and the European Parliament have been fruitful and positive.
Both the British and the Austrian Presidencies had an opportunity to present their work programme for the next six months to you and to discuss it with you.
Depending on the area of competence, these work programmes were explained in detail and discussed with the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs or in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights.
There was also an exchange of views between the presidency and Members of Parliament on aspects of mutual interest in the fields of justice and home affairs.
I think we can safely say, Mr Nassauer, that there was accordingly a chance to discuss issues before they were considered at formal or informal meetings of the Council.
We thus ensured that the views of the European Parliament had some impact at those meetings.
It was also a useful exercise for the Presidents-in-Office to give a detailed report to Parliament's committees at the end of each half year on the work done by the Council during the period under review.
We will continue that practice.
Furthermore, the presidency also continued the practice established by the Luxembourg Presidency in the second half of 1997 of consulting the European Parliament in accordance with the Treaty of Amsterdam.
We should carry on doing that.
It has been another way - a successful one to my mind - in which we have tried to take account of the views of the European Parliament.
And in each case the presidency has conveyed Parliament's views to the relevant Council body.
I would like to add that in December 1998 the Council consulted the European Parliament on a project which has a very special role to play, namely an action plan for the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice, which your resolution also touches upon, albeit from a particular point of view.
This action plan is intended to point the way ahead and broadly determine how we proceed in future, in the first five years - you yourself, Mr Nassauer, said five years plus x - after the Treaty of Amsterdam has come into force.
Let me say this again: you can rest assured that the German Presidency attaches great importance to improving relations between the Council and the European Parliament still further.
We think it was very positive that throughout the year the European Parliament demonstrated considerable interest in work in this field.
The Council received more than 100 questions, which I think is proof enough.
Lastly, I would like to talk about the conclusions of the Council of 19 March last year.
These conclusions related to openness and transparency in the Council's activities in the field of Title VI of the Treaty on the European Union, providing a wider range of information on the activity of the Council and reinforcing its external impact.
Some of this relates to matters we have already discussed and some of it to your own proposals: making the calendar of meetings available to the public, publishing Council decisions on the Internet, and having public debates in the Council.
I shall now turn to my second point.
What progress was made on judicial cooperation last year under the British and Austrian Presidencies?
The first point I should mention is judicial cooperation on civil matters.
I say that simply because we know very well that this is of special interest to Europe's citizens.
A key event in the field of judicial cooperation on civil matters was the adoption by the Council of the Brussels II Convention on jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters, and the signing of this convention by the Member States.
As you know, this convention is of great interest to Europe's citizens.
It stipulates in which Member State a divorce, legal separation or marriage annulment can be applied for, and also determines which Member State is responsible for making a judgment on parental authority for children of binational marriages when a divorce, separation or marriage annulment has been applied for.
I do not have to tell you that for binational marriages in particular, divorces involve many problems.
By virtue of this convention, we can endeavour to create a reasonable framework for legal and judicial processes and practice.
But it is of course almost impossible to legislate for the human aspect of the problems associated with this, and I think we will have to explore other options in this case.
I believe that the Members of this House also have a part to play in helping with this aspect of regulation and practice.
But let me return to the convention itself.
As soon as the courts of a Member State have made a judgment, it can then be recognised and enforced in other Member States by means of a quick, simple and inexpensive procedure.
It is also important to note that in connection with this convention the Council adopted a legal instrument simultaneously signed by the Member States concerning the interpretation of the convention by the European Court of Justice.
This legal instrument is not only important as a means of taking matters further forward, but also in that it highlights the importance of the European Court of Justice.
I believe that emphasising the significance of the European Court of Justice in this way is important as a means of furthering the concept of judicial control and thus also of constitutionality in the European Union, in exactly the same way as in all the Member States.
Important work on judicial cooperation in the field of civil law was launched in relation to revising the Brussels I and Lugano Conventions.
This too was a very positive development.
The Brussels Convention of 27 September 1968 lays down uniform rules for the Member States on international jurisdiction, lis pendens conditions, recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
The Lugano Convention of 16 September 1988 is similarly structured but, as you know, there are differences of detail.
The signatories to the Lugano Convention are, in addition to the EU Member States, the EFTA states of Switzerland, Norway and Iceland.
The German Presidency plans to revise these conventions over the next six months.
The objective of the discussions is to bring these two conventions more closely into line with each other, to make improvements on the basis of experience of legal practice and in particular to further simplify the mutual recognition and enforcement of judgments.
We particularly want to keep an eye on the simplification side.
So the aim of these negotiations is to achieve an important step towards establishing the area of freedom, security and justice which the Member States want to create together.
We hope to complete this during the German Presidency.
In July 1998, a Council working party met to consider the requirements for creating a legal instrument on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations.
This is known as the Rome II project, and it builds on Rome I, the agreement between the EU Member States of 19 June 1980 on the law applicable to contractual obligations.
The working party achieved a positive interim result and is now to produce a draft on the basis of a working document prepared by the Austrian Presidency.
I shall now turn to judicial cooperation in the field of criminal law, which Mrs Van Lancker also touched upon.
First, I would like to mention the importance in practical terms of the Convention on driving disqualification, another subject with a very immediate impact on people in the Member States of the European Union.
I have to tell you that in Germany too people are constantly asking questions and expressing their fears about this convention, although it is also widely praised.
The convention adopted by the Council on 16 June 1998 provides that judgments no longer subject to the right of appeal may in certain circumstances be enforced in a Member State other than the state of residence.
This therefore makes a valuable contribution to road safety and simultaneously, by tackling such a practical subject, helps to create a common legal area of which our citizens are directly aware.
There is another field in which I unfortunately cannot report the same degree of progress.
I am talking about improving mutual assistance in criminal matters.
Despite the extraordinarily commendable and persistent efforts of the Austrian Presidency in particular - which I would like to emphasise - there has been far less progress in this field, the reason being the different systems that exist in the Member States.
Another reason is the various expectations people have of the European Union in this field, and I think that in this case all the European institutions, and above all the European Parliament, have a duty not only to generate greater appreciation of the issue, but also to take supportive action so as to facilitate effective international negotiations.
To do this it is necessary to improve the existing instruments of international mutual assistance in criminal matters and to adapt them to the requirements of modern international law enforcement.
This particularly applies, as we all know, to modern international communications technology, such as satellite communications.
The German Presidency plans to work towards adoption of the Agreement on Mutual Assistance in Criminal Matters as quickly as possible, preferably within the six months of our presidency.
There is a considerable body of earlier work for us to build on.
In particular, there is already a consensus about simplified procedures for passing on requests for mutual assistance, and also on rules governing modern methods of passing requests across borders - the key words here being controlled deliveries and undercover agents - as well as questioning via video-conferencing.
However, I am sure that I do not need to tell you again that there are still many problems to be solved.
We may perhaps have a chance to tell the relevant committees more about this next week.
In the field of combating fraud and corruption, by adopting the joint measure on corruption in the private sector in December 1998 we have managed to create a new basis for combating corruption in business in the common market under criminal law.
I have no doubt that this too is a very important step forward that should be brought to the public's attention in an appropriate way.
Let me now turn to the fight against organised crime.
Just before the Treaty of Amsterdam was signed the European Council instructed a high-level group on organised crime to work out an action plan to develop a comprehensive approach to this task.
This has enabled the various parties involved - the police, judicial and customs authorities - to work together in a multidisciplinary team, initially for a limited period, to combat the scourge of organised crime.
This is in marked contrast to the artificial barriers which previously separated them.
I would once again like to stress that the Council very much appreciates the important contribution made by the European Parliament to the Multidisciplinary Group on Organised Crime.
I particularly have in mind Ms Cederschiöld's report on the action plan.
This report was - and still is - one of the cornerstones of the Group's work.
For example, the resolution adopted by the Council on 21 December 1998 on the prevention of organised crime goes back to an initiative inspired by the debate in the European Parliament.
Substantial progress has been made in implementing the action plan, and this was set out in detail in the report to the Vienna European Council.
I would like to draw special attention to the launch of the European Judicial Network and the adoption of a joint measure on money laundering, the identification, tracing, freezing, seizing and confiscation of the instruments used in and the proceeds from crime, and the adoption of a joint measure under which the legislation of all the Member States will make it a criminal offence for any person on their territory to participate in a criminal organisation, regardless of where it is located or pursues its criminal activities.
As you know, the deadline for implementing the recommendations in the action plan is the end of 1999.
The Council will then have to reach a decision on the follow-up to this work and on how it links up with the new action plan on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
I am sure I do not need to tell you that this decision will be a rather important one.
I would now like to say a few words about the action plan on the establishment of an area of freedom, security and justice.
The process of drawing up this new action plan was the focal point of the Council's work in the second half of 1998, making it the centre-piece of the Austrian Presidency.
As you know, the Cardiff European Council called upon the Council and the Commission to present proposals to the Vienna European Council on the best means of implementing the provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam concerning an area of freedom, security and justice.
A document was presented to the Vienna Summit in which an attempt was made to pinpoint the changes and progressive innovations contained in the Treaty of Amsterdam, or in other words its added value, and to draw up a work programme for the next two to five years.
The Vienna European Council approved the action plan and stated that it would give the field of justice and home affairs a new dimension after the entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam, thus creating a concrete framework for developing activity in this field.
I think it is right to draw attention to this.
At the same time, the European Council decided that progress to date should be assessed at the Special Justice and Home Affairs European Council to be held in Tampere in October 1999 and that that meeting should set further guidelines for EU action in the field of justice and home affairs.
This is an important task and the opinion sought from Parliament by the Austrian Presidency in mid-December will be accorded its full weight.
I can certainly assure you that the German Presidency, which will be making the initial preparations for Tampere, will ensure that the European Parliament's opinion is fully taken on board.
I am convinced that the Tampere Special Council will give us an opportunity to make significant further progress with discussions in this field and I hope that the German Presidency can count on the continuing support of the European Parliament in achieving this objective.
I would like to mention once again that we are at the interface of two interesting phases.
The European Parliament elections are about to take place, and it will be important to enter into a dialogue with our citizens about the progress we have made and the potential of a European legal area and common security area.
The entry into force of the Treaty of Amsterdam makes this a time of radical change, and this will have a special impact in our area.
We should all be aware that a key factor in driving Europe as a whole forward is the enormous interest shown by Europe's citizens in the common legal area - which will mean additional and common rights for all - and also in the common European security area.
So the challenge we face is to act jointly and to use our knowledge and ability to the full to find ways of bringing Europe as a whole closer to a social and democratic constitutional identity.
I think that is your objective, and it is also the objective of the German Presidency.
Applause
