Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, ever since agricultural policy was converted into a price support system in the agricultural reform of 1992 to 1994, agricultural debates have in fact lost much of their charm.
That is why I should like to focus on the future.
Mr Jové Peres's excellent report also talks about controlled and integrated cultivation.
I have a very clear request to make to the Commission here: this method of agricultural production is a very good one and deserves to be supported because it takes account of the environment and heeds consumers' wishes.
However, its impact and the form it takes vary across the Member States.
Integrated cultivation is not the same thing in each Member State, and that is why we need uniform directives on the integrated and controlled cultivation of fruit and vegetables to be transposed in the Member States.
However, I should now like to turn to the rural development programme - the second pillar of the new agricultural policy - and say the following: the remarkable feature of this programme is the variety of measures for farmers and rural areas.
Nevertheless, I do have a question for the Commissioner.
The risk here is cofinancing.
How can we guarantee that it will be possible to bring these programmes - which are really good for rural areas - to the people, when governments are refusing to proceed with cofinancing?
Early retirement for farmers, the setting-up premium for young farmers and modernising agricultural holdings to reduce production costs, for example, are extremely important measures, and I should like to welcome the fact that they are presented here in a separate rural development pillar.
But there is still the risk that if cofinancing is not guaranteed by the Member States, then how are the people who live in areas of this kind going to benefit from these programmes, which are undoubtedly valuable, but which cannot be implemented if they are not taken up by the Member States?
I have one final question for you: in Germany, can the Bundesländer also act as treaty partners, so that the programmes can at least be implemented in those Länder which are prepared to provide cofinancing?
