Mr President, Mr Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, if you will allow me, I would like to address my speech to you directly, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, because I believe that the European Council in recent years has become far too an insignificant factor at the heart of European discussions and has also held back somewhat when it has come down to stepping in and taking charge.
In this instance, following our unpleasant experiences with BSE, the Commission is largely blameless and the Member States have once again played their games under the guise of subsidiarity and have not been brave enough, for example, in drafting a framework Directive on foodstuffs which could be something concrete to which the Member States can adhere.
I do not want to go so far as to say that the last five years have seen an upswing in renationalisation but certainly, in that time, the Council has not become any more audacious when it has come down to, for example, in view of the obvious conclusions to be drawn from the BSE crisis, proposing real European goals which could then also be safeguarded and sanctioned.
This is very regrettable and I fear the only thing that will get the Council moving on this question will be the agreement that we have just concluded with the Americans whereby they may verify whether Europe itself is observing the same standards of hygiene as we expect from the Americans.
Only then will the Council start to act.
The days of Member States playing their games must stop; instead, they have to play a European game with European goals and, of course, proceed along individual paths in order to achieve this goal.
As a farmer, let me now come onto another issue which I am finding somewhat disconcerting.
Worldwide competition in the foodstuffs industry is causing ruin.
The Americans are squeezing the European market and the profits of processing industries are lower than ever before.
Competition is passing this onto the consumer and, in this instance, onto producers in particular.
As a result, this is clearly creating the environment for criminal dealings.
Minister, you have said that the dioxin admixture was a mixture of unsuitable raw materials.
Perhaps this is a translation problem.
As far as I am concerned, it is a criminal act which is driving farmers in my constituency to ruin.
Applause
Therefore, let's talk in clear and plain language for the benefit of consumers and farmers alike, and for the benefit of Europe as well.
Applause
