Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, responsibility for Europe and the European Union again having by the end of tomorrow a Commission which is capable of acting lies with this Parliament, with ourselves.
In an overall judgement, we have to decide whether or not, tomorrow, we can affirm our confidence in this Commission.
In so doing, Parliament accepts responsibility for the Commission, as well as for individual proposals, and that does not make our decision any the easier.
I should like first of all to say to you, Professor Prodi, that as President of the Commission you can count upon the broad assent of the CDU/CSU Members of Parliament.
The fact that we have formed different judgements about individual members of the collegiate body is no surprise.
A number of people have used the opportunity of the hearings brilliantly, for example Chris Patten and also Mr Vitorino.
However, you have on board a candidate who has been implicated in a matter regarding a donation in his home country and about whom we must, since yesterday, ask whether he has made an appropriate statement in the hearings before this Parliament.
This particular candidate could become a burden on the Commission.
I allow myself to issue this warning because the restoration of trust which you yourself, Professor Prodi, have quite rightly demanded naturally depends too upon your heading a Commission which can go to work unimpeded by reproaches of this kind.
It is precisely this which must distinguish it from its predecessor.
There has been talk of the political balance of the Commission.
It is not a condition of any treaty that there should be balance of this kind but a sign of political wisdom and, in fact, of consideration for this Parliament.
Our critical comment on this subject still stands, although we do not want to emphasise it again right now.
We therefore have high expectations, Professor Prodi, in connection with our comprehensive affirmation of yourself and of your task as President of the Commission.
You are the first Commission President to whom the Treaty grants the ability to reach agreements, and not only with the Commission as a whole but also with each individual candidate.
We can only encourage you to make energetic use of this role.
No government of any Member State should, in future, be able to disregard the President of the Commission.
In this connection, we demand that the budget and the supervision of the budget be very clearly separated.
We shall judge the Commission on the basis of whether you succeed, when legislating, in being more true to the spirit of subsidiarity than Commissions in the past have been.
A new culture of subsidiarity must enter the Commission over which you preside.
