Madam President, let me begin by thanking the rapporteur for her proposals and for taking the opportunity to put forward proposals by Parliament that go beyond what the Commission proposed.
I believe that even at the time it proposed these legislative changes we could have expected the Commission to make further-reaching proposals, instead of spending years discussing something that should have been done a long time ago.
We are now told we will be getting a green paper next year, but I cannot imagine that we will have completed the legislation before the year 2002.
Let me just point out that so far there has been no follow-up at all to the green paper on the future of food legislation which we voted on a year ago and concerning which everyone fully endorsed Parliament's proposals.
That is to say, no law was proposed to implement what we decided at the time.
I do not find it acceptable to let time pass and do nothing in an area that is so important to every citizen of the European Union.
In fact I am very surprised to find that my colleagues on the other side of the House have suddenly forgotten a great many of the things we once decided here unanimously and jointly a year and a half ago in the wake of the BSE decision.
There is another matter to which I would draw attention.
If we include liability for primary agricultural products in the directive on liability, then in my view we really will have to complete the chain.
In fact I tabled an amendment on the subject at first reading, which was accepted.
I do not think we should hold the farmers alone liable, without enabling them to go back to the producers of their primary products.
That is essential.
Perhaps it is not so much a chain as a circle that we have to close here, to ensure that in the end every producer is responsible for what he puts on the market, but that he also assumes this responsibility over a fairly long period of time especially for products which we know can cause illnesses that cannot be detected after one year or even after 10 years.
I really would ask colleagues to consider that if we grasp this opportunity we should be pleased about it.
We are taking speedier action on European legislation this time and we should not hang about and expose ourselves to the criticism that we are leaving the consumers out in the cold!
