Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Needle has gone to great trouble with the hearing in committee.
Of course many wishes and desires were voiced about all the things Europe could do.
Naturally I agree with Mr Needle that we must devote a great deal of attention to health, but unlike many previous speakers I do not believe that this can all be done in Europe
I believe that the Member States have a very major responsibility.
There is a short phrase in one paragraph to the effect that a future revision of the Treaty should provide for greater involvement of the Community in matters relating to health protection.
In my view only the Member States can take on this responsibility.
If we keep giving the Community more responsibility, I do not believe, given the relatively restricted apparatus of the Commission, that it will be in a position to accomplish everything the Member States have so far been able to do with their much more extensive administrative resources.
So I would like to draw attention to a few points I am not happy with.
At this point I would like to see the EU implement those matters that are referred to in the Maastricht Treaty and the Amsterdam Treaty but I would not like it to go beyond that or to call on the Commission to do so either.
I also think we are not in a position to create equality in health.
There are very different ideas and considerations on, for instance, cures and treatments.
I am glad we have these widely different approaches and also that we have freedom of movement.
After all, the Court of Justice has ruled that people can be treated differently in different countries.
I want to retain this and would not like to see everything forced into line in Europe.
I would far rather see the responsibility left with the Member States.
I also believe that the regional authorities are not all in a position to establish contacts with the Commission.
I would like to see pilot projects.
Information can be provided but information campaigns are another difficult matter, as we cannot conduct an information campaign that is the same for all Member States because health policy also has to be conveyed in a psychologically very different manner.
That is why I take a different view on these points and would be glad if these points, with which I am not happy, were dropped as a result of the vote.
Only then could I approve the report.
Applause
