Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, any agreement on CO2 emissions is of course meaningless without a sensible monitoring mechanism.
We have to be able to check compliance with what has been agreed.
Otherwise, we can agree or negotiate whatever we like, but without a monitoring mechanism it means nothing.
That is why we need to get to work as quickly as possible on creating a consistent monitoring mechanism for the European Union.
The Commission submitted its proposal on 4 September 1996, so we have been discussing this for nearly three years.
I think this is disgraceful when you think of all the developments since then and the urgent need to make progress on climate protection.
That is why I am anxious that there should not be any further delay, and that we should be in a position to implement this directive as quickly as possible.
Nevertheless, I do have a few reservations, especially because subsequent developments have meant that some aspects of the international negotiations on CO2 reduction have not been taken into account yet.
Nowadays, we are no longer negotiating about whether and by how many percent CO2 emissions should be reduced.
No-one is disputing that any more.
The negotiations are now about whether emissions can be traded and in what framework.
That has not been included here yet, so to that extent this legislation needs to be developed further.
And of course to do that we also need a framework guaranteeing the democratic rights of Parliament.
The Council's amendment of Article 8 is arguably so substantial that we ought to consider, in accordance with Rule 62 of our Rules of Procedure, whether this debate should continue at all.
I believe that we should finally get this sorted out here and now, so that we at least have an instrument that would enable us to make progress and set up a monitoring system.
So I do not advocate going down that particular road.
However, in view of developments in the CO2 debate, and given the issue of Parliament's democratic participation, I would like to put two questions to you here in the House, Commissioner, and I would also ask you to reply to these two questions in the House.
The first question is about comitology.
Article 8 provides for a specific regulatory committee.
However, even if our amendment is accepted, the Commission alone will bear responsibility for further development.
So my first question is whether the Commission can assure us that Parliament will be kept informed about agreements reached in this committee and about further development, both promptly and in detail.
Secondly, in view of the need for further development of monitoring systems, can the Commission assure us that a new amendment to this directive will be brought forward, and that in particular flexible mechanisms for emissions trading will be covered in this new version?
