Mr President, I am speaking here from a unique position as the only Member of this House who was born before the First World War and who, moreover, was elected to this Parliament long after reaching pensionable age; since then I have enjoyed 20 wonderful years of life and work here.
Applause
It is from that perspective that I should like to say just a few words.
There can be no doubt that far too little is said in our countries about the problem of older people and that there is sometimes an excessively strong inclination to indulge in a certain glorification of youth.
That is certainly warranted as a means of helping younger people to break through into public life.
But we build and maintain structures that make it well-nigh impossible for youth to have its head.
The electoral system in our democracies is organised in such a way that young people find it extremely difficult to assert themselves.
If there were a system whereby we really voted for candidates in small constituencies rather than parties - and such a system, I regret to say, has even been abandoned in Britain now - young people, and old people too, could assert themselves.
That would be real democracy.
What is being established today is not genuine democracy but rather a 'partiocracy', in which party officials, through their power of selection, effectively have the right to decide where democracy begins and ends.
In this connection, I should like to point out that one of our key demands is that the elderly should finally be given the greater freedom to which they have long aspired.
In the economic sector we are always talking about the free market, and rightly so.
But for the elderly there is no such thing.
Although people's pension rights are recognised when they reach retirement age, at which point they are 'brought down a peg' in terms of social status, there is no recognition of the other rights they have acquired at earlier points in their lives.
Surely people cannot be compelled to consent to the loss of these rights in order to avoid having to give up what they want to do.
There happen to be elderly people who are very glad that they can go on working.
In such cases we hear talk of keeping young people out of a job.
That is not true.
In my opinion there is only one country where this has been properly understood, namely Switzerland, strange as it may seem.
In Switzerland, in the Swiss Parliament for example, there are many pensioners who bring the benefits of a lifetime of experience to their work.
That is something on which we should insist, namely genuine freedom of choice for the elderly.
Such freedom of choice would also help us to achieve some degree of control over the demographic pyramid to which some speakers have rightly referred, for the pyramid needs a broader base, and the breadth of that base is also restricted in our part of the world.
The main thing is to safeguard the freedom of the elderly.
Applause
