Mr President, Commissioner, Mr President-in-Office, organic farmers have often been depicted as outsiders, and I believe that if this continues they will continue to be outsiders.
The basic conditions should be created to ensure that they do not remain outsiders, with the exception of ideologues.
Flexibility, which you mentioned, Mr Funke, is right, necessary and sensible, but it should take the right direction and should not be a form of protection for large industrial concerns that wish to maintain forms of production that admittedly lead to relatively low unit prices in economic terms but ultimately harm public health.
I believe this is what you meant by flexibility.
In any case that is how I see it.
In my view, the transition periods are too long.
Pointless conditions that make organic farming much more difficult should be abolished or not introduced in the first place.
But I believe that marketing and promotion are vitally important and necessary, both to change consumer habits and, in the form of commercial initiatives, to create sales opportunities for small farms, as most of the farms concerned are small holdings.
Four weeks ago a study was presented to us by the chamber of commerce in Bozen in the south Tyrol.
It was a comparative study of 1 500 cooperatives in the Alps, from France to Slovenia, and we learned that the farms that were involved in these cooperatives fared much better than the others in terms of income security.
Since mainly small farms are involved we would need to introduce greater support for cooperatives in this area.
If you do not yet have this study, I would be glad to provide you with a copy.
In Austria we have learned that almost 20 % of current production comes from areas of organic production.
I believe we are moving in the right direction.
It is an advantage for our consumers, for health, for better extensification of farmland and, I believe, it offers good future prospects for young farmers too, particularly as the average age of more than half of those employed in agriculture is over 55 years.
