Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party and also very much on my own behalf I would like to express the very sincere respect, esteem and gratitude that we owe to Otto von Habsburg.
His speech here today is typical of the speeches he has made in the European Parliament over the last 20 years, since 1979.
I remember very clearly when he talked of the former Soviet Union as being the last colonial empire on earth, with its annexation of the three Baltic states - Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania.
Mr von Habsburg, many people smiled when you said that, but I was always convinced that you were right.
You had a vision that these states should be liberated, and today that vision is becoming a reality.
They are now free to join the European Union, and you are an example of the fact that is visionaries who are the true realists.
We are discussing Estonia, Hungary, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Poland, Cyprus and Malta.
But, as Otto von Habsburg has said, we should cast our net wider, towards Latvia, Lithuania and Slovakia, and also towards Bulgaria and Romania.
We in the PPE Group see the accession and negotiation as a single process, and we are convinced that we have to prove ourselves, and that the accession of all these countries associated with us by Europe agreements must soon become a reality.
Of course, certain requirements have to be met.
These countries need to speed up their reforms and actively pursue them.
We are delighted to see that they are making great progress.
We need to encourage these countries and should not give them any discouraging signals.
Because if we did discourage them, the reform process and the momentum in these countries would founder, which would be bad both for these countries and for the European Union.
That is why we are telling these countries that they are welcome, that the people of these countries are welcome in the European Union, because they want to join our community and adopt its set of values.
That is why we are calling for the Helsinki Council at the end of this year to start accession negotiations with Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, and of course also, as we are requesting, with Malta.
The Baltic states have suffered a great deal of pain in the course of this century, as Otto von Habsburg has already mentioned.
As they have not been admitted to NATO yet, they are seeking security within the European Union.
If we look at Kosovo today, we cannot fail to recognise that it is our duty to admit in particular the Baltic states into the European Union as quickly as possible.
We need to make headway with the internal reform of the European Union.
There is clearly a need for institutional reform if we want to remain effective.
We also need to take certain practical steps.
We have proposed for example that MPs from the applicant countries could attend meetings of our parliamentary committees as observers when accession issues are on the agenda.
But in turn, we also have our own requirements.
For example, we are calling on the Czech Republic to repeal laws and decrees still in force from 1945 and 1946 in cases where they refer to the expulsion of individual ethnic groups from the former Czechoslovakia.
We are faced with a great challenge.
Back in 1989, we would not have dared to dream that we could be discussing such problems in 1999.
But we are discussing them, and that is why we must now do whatever is necessary to ensure that this vision, which is edging closer to fulfilment, actually does become a reality in the foreseeable future, so that we can welcome the people of central Europe into the European Union and the European Parliament.
