Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would be happy to answer the questions.
I have noted down 83 questions.
Do I have 83 minutes' speaking time?
No.
So I will have to try to summarise the main subject areas and give combined answers.
First, all the questions relating to supposed results are pointless.
So far there are none except for the two I mentioned.
There is agreement on the efficiency reserve and there is agreement on the question of the consistency of national aid regions and EU aid regions.
But these two agreements are also conditional on an overall agreement being reached.
Let me tell you at the outset: before the European Council meeting in Berlin there will be no advance agreements on any of the questions you have raised here, simply because the global package has to be made up of many, many components, components that will bring the individual Member States advantages and disadvantages.
The Member States' assent is bound to depend on the overall balance the package produces for each Member State.
We are talking about a lot of money for the individual states.
Unfortunately, the political majorities in the Council play no part at all here.
During the deliberations each country naturally looks to the needs and interests of its own people and tries to reconcile them with our common European objectives.
I am not counting on us being able to obtain advance results on important individual issues before Berlin because the global package has to balance out the different interests.
Most of the questions in fact suggested that agreement or plans already exist on these issues.
Nor has the German Presidency made any compromise proposal at all at this stage.
After all, our duty as the presidency is not to put all our efforts into pushing through the German point of view; our duty as the presidency is first of all to sound out where the broad lines of a compromise are emerging and then, when the time is ripe, to propose that compromise.
And that is what we will do.
But at present we are still trying to narrow the options.
I gave you a few examples of areas where we can already see majorities and perhaps also consensus beginning to emerge.
But this process is not complete yet on any single important issue.
One Member of this Parliament referred to public opinion in the Member States.
That is something I take very seriously and which the German Presidency also takes very seriously.
Let me just point out to you that public opinion in Europe is not united on these questions.
I am well aware of public opinion in Spain.
But public opinion in Germany, for example, is quite the opposite of what it is in Spain.
The same applies elsewhere.
So there is no point in telling the presidency about public opinion in a particular country.
We have to concentrate on finding a solution that is acceptable to all and consistent with our European objectives.
Let me confirm quite specifically that one of the objectives of Agenda 2000 - and we treat it as such - is to concentrate available European resources more emphatically on the objective of combating unemployment.
That is one of the key objectives of the whole operation.
The people of Europe see unemployment as the main challenge and expect us to do everything possible to combat it effectively.
Agenda 2000 can make a major contribution towards that.
I also confirm specifically that the Agenda is directly linked to the question of enlargement.
I do not believe that the question of dates is really important at this moment.
In any case there has never been a fixed date for the enlargement process.
Neither the Council nor Parliament, nor the Commission, nor the applicant states ever fixed a date.
Agenda 2000 also establishes the preconditions for enlargement.
If we do not manage to conclude the Agenda by March, that will send out a discouraging signal to the applicant countries.
That is another reason why it is so important for us to conclude the Agenda in good time.
In view of the conditions under which Parliament is meeting today, with farmers and tractors outside on the street, let me point out that agricultural policy forms one component of the global package.
It is not a question of agricultural policy alone.
That policy is a component of it in terms of financial volume, and given the structure of our budgets it is of course the biggest component.
A large majority of Member States are convinced that agricultural policy must also play its part in achieving the overall result, which is to say it must also be reformed, firstly in relation to compatibility with the WTO competition rules and, secondly, in relation to the financing of the European Union after enlargement.
Since the specific question was asked, let me also say quite clearly that the objective of a European agricultural policy cannot and must not be to jeopardise or even destroy farming.
On the contrary, the objective of European agricultural policy must be to preserve farming in all the European regions for the future.
The presidency for its part is convinced that the proposals that are under discussion - after all we are still only at the discussion stage - do not tend in a direction that would allow us to say that farming no longer has a future in Europe.
I can understand that you would like to be able to discuss concrete agreements now.
But that is not possible because, given the negotiating process that is under way, the global package will in fact not be tied up until March.
In cooperation between the presidency and Parliament we opted for a procedure that is now gathering momentum rapidly.
We are meeting more and more often and are also discussing more and more subjects.
We are fully aware that we need Parliament's assent.
During the discussions in various forums the presidency does indeed point out that when the various national positions are put forward, account must be taken of the European Parliament's opinion.
However, I must admit that some Member States take this more seriously than others.
And some people seem to think we can just leave it to the presidency to decide how it will then persuade the European Parliament to agree to the results of the special summit.
In any case we are endeavouring to incorporate as many as possible of Parliament's views in the results of the summit.
That is why I am grateful for all the ideas put forward in this debate in the form of questions.
Let me assure you that we will take account of all these ideas, comments and recommendations in our deliberations.
