Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, at the start of my speech I should like to thank the rapporteur for her willingness to compromise, because that is the only reason why the House has now been presented with a report that we in the Socialist Group are able to support.
We undoubtedly had problems in the initial stages, because I need hardly say that many things have already been decided here by Parliament in a similar manner.
But we also had problems because Mrs Hermange's first version incorporated many elements of social policy that were completely unacceptable to us, such as the expression 'Europe without Europeans' or the suggestion that Europe was committing suicide by letting its birth rate fall.
These and other misleading statements certainly made us have serious doubts at the start of the process.
There was also the fact, of course, that our committee became embroiled in an decidedly impassioned discussion on the enshrining of the traditional family model.
I shall return to that in a moment.
And then suddenly we had a number of amendments from other committee members which would have totally distorted the report; moreover, I have to say that the committees asked for an opinion did not exactly make things any easier for us.
The Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs even changed draftsmen, one draftsman having tried to refer the entire matter back on the subsidiarity issue.
That was not the position of the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs.
It is our view that the family is definitely a matter which the European Union is competent to deal with politically at European level.
What is more, we in the European Parliament are a more suitable forum than national parliaments for the discussion of this issue, since everywhere in the Member States there are ideological battles about the concept of the family, about what does and does not constitute a family.
We in the European Parliament, with the mutual tolerance and respect we practise, are undoubtedly in a position to reach agreement on a modern family model, thereby setting an example for this debate in the Member States.
Before I move on, let me examine some aspects of subsidiarity.
I do not share the previous speaker's view that the subject under discussion has nothing at all to do with our area of responsibility.
Of course, I would not wish to interpret our remit too broadly, because the family should naturally be first and foremost a matter of national and preferably local government policy.
But as we know, policies on the family are also invariably associated with issues of sexual equality, which makes them a partly European responsibility.
Let us recall the guidelines for 1999, which include a new pillar specifically dedicated to equal opportunities, and the call for modern forms of work organisation.
What else does that mean but giving women and men, fathers and mothers, new opportunities to combine work with family responsibilities through changes in the organisation of workplaces and social structures?
This position, incidentally, has also been adopted by the European Court of Justice, which has delivered several relevant judgments on subjects such as part-time work and equal pay.
This is another argument in favour of the European dimension.
We jointly adopted the European legislation on parental leave, which is another contribution to a modern, enlightened policy on the family.
The fact that the amount of parental leave taken is so unevenly distributed between men and women in Europe should, I believe, provide some important food for thought in the Member States.
Let me mention just three statistics: 30 % of all parental leave in Sweden is taken by fathers, in Germany the figure is 3 %, and when the data were collected in Greece, only three men - yes, three men - were on parental leave.
That too is an indication of how we in Europe can learn from each other.
Let me finish with a point which is of great importance to me, a point that should stir us into action.
We have legally guaranteed freedom of movement for employees in the European Union, and that naturally extends to their families too.
For that reason and because of the single market, we have a duty - a shared duty, of course - to pursue a European policy on the family.
