I could only approve with reservations the resolution of the European Parliament regarding the European Council Summit, held in Cologne on 3 and 4 June 1999 under the German Presidency.
Those who had hoped that the success of the German Presidency would continue smoothly through this year would have been bitterly disappointed.
There is a big difference between someone like Helmut Kohl shaping policies in the German and, at the same time, the European interest, coming to an agreement in advance with partners in the Member States, and thereby achieving something tangible as a result, and someone like Mr Schröder attempting to do this.
The entire world has noticed that he is uneasy on the international stage.
This has been evident in the lack of progress in the fight against the predominant problem in Europe, the lack of jobs and the inadequate employment situation.
Back in 1994, with a German as EU President-in-Office of the Council, Helmut Kohl, a milestone was reached in Essen when agreement was reached on the first elements of a co-ordinated European employment strategy.
On this basis, the Employment Summit in Luxembourg agreed upon significant guidelines.
Jean-Claude Juncker demonstrated the path to changing the structure of the labour market with the aim of securing a higher employment level through increased efficiency.
The grandiose announcement by Mr Schröder concerning the European Employment Pact was, as usual, premature.
A lavish menu was planned but what transpired was meagre fare.
All the' Cologne process' means is getting macro economic dialogue under way, i.e. conducting negotiations between the Council, Commission, social partners and the European Central Bank.
Nothing more was achieved.
This takes you back, embarrassingly, to the 'Alliance for Work' , which has transformed into an 'Alliance for Rhetoric' , lacking in effective structural reforms worthy of the name and where agreement cannot be reached on low wages, wage policy and wealth creation.
Citizens, and primarily those who are unemployed, are sick and tired of rituals lacking in substance.
Recently, the Kosovo conflict has overshadowed everything, but nothing can be concealed for long.
With bombastic Schröder maxims, the Federal Government going it alone, unauthorised and arbitrary personnel decisions à la Hombach and through rough behaviour instead of sensitivity, there has been absolutely nothing to write home about, either at a national or at a European level.
The European elections gave the necessary resounding slap in the face: The outgoing Council Presidency was a flop, not a success.
Kosovo
