Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is and has been the wish of the Council, the Commission and Parliament to achieve three objectives by means of Agenda 2000.
The first is to make the Union fit for enlargement eastwards.
The second is to reform its own policies, especially its agricultural and Structural Funds policies, in a sense to bring a breath of fresh air into our policies.
The third is to safeguard the financing of these policies over the next seven years.
The master plan presented by the Commission to this end did not come through the more than two years of discussions in Parliament and the Council unchanged, and I admit that this was not advantageous in every respect.
It will become apparent that we have not entirely achieved the objectives I have just listed.
But it is also true that we have come very, very close to doing so.
The result of Berlin is a compromise.
That it came into being at all is also thanks to the German Presidency of the Council, and in particular to the German Chancellor.
Every compromise, including of course the Berlin compromise, has some more and some less satisfactory aspects.
Perhaps in the European Union maximum satisfaction can be achieved only if the dissatisfaction is equally distributed.
Here too the German Presidency can boast some success.
But so can Parliament!
Never before has the European Parliament been so closely involved in the decision-making on a reform project of this scale.
From the time of the first reading of the reports in the European Parliament up to the Berlin European Council at the end of March, Parliament influenced and modified the results in the course of intensive discussions, and in intensive negotiations after Berlin.
This result is certainly not quite what we had hoped and wanted.
However, we are also aware that for the first time the European Parliament has managed to change important aspects of a European Council decision.
We succeeded in ensuring the implementation and funding of a fourth URBAN Community initiative, so as to promote the economic and social regeneration of cities and urban neighbourhoods.
I want to take this opportunity to particularly thank the Commissioner, Mrs Wulf-Mathies, for supporting the European Parliament's position on these questions, as also on a range of others.
We would not have carried off this success without having her on our side.
It will be thanks to us if more attention is paid in future to land-use planning, to remote regions and islands.
It will be thanks to us that more support is to be given to education and training, and above all it is thanks to us that the flexibility instrument can be increased.
Also to our credit is the review clause for the financing of future policies, especially in the external policy area and in relation to aid for the reconstruction of the afflicted Balkan regions.
It is thanks to us that codecision has been introduced at least in some areas of agricultural policy.
I think the future President of the Commission has us to thank that this Commission will have considerably more staff available for carrying out new tasks than the old Commission ever had.
The large majority of my group will approve the interinstitutional agreement on medium-term financial planning and we will of course give our assent to those parts of Agenda 2000 that require such assent.
As we declared back in November 1998: we, the Parliament, will do all we can to ensure that the Agenda 2000 package is adopted before Parliament is re-elected and we want to get this Agenda 2000 under way now.
It makes a vital contribution to the Union's ability to act during a difficult period.
With our decisions on Agenda 2000 we will make the European Union more able to move into the future.
