Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, in Parliament's view the decision-making procedure for Agenda 2000 deserves to be praised and to be met with approval.
In view of the timetable for ratifying the Amsterdam Treaty, the Council and the Commission have already agreed that as far as possible, the European Parliament should be granted those rights to which it has only formally been entitled since 1 May this year, particularly in the area of structural reform.
As the European Parliament and perhaps also as representatives of the Member States, we can agree under these circumstances, and with a clear conscience, to the results of Agenda 2000 and the decision-making procedure regarding this.
The most important objectives which the Commission had already envisaged are entirely reasonable.
Concentrating on the real problems and problem areas, less bureaucratic structures, and greater efficiency and transparency generally make good sense.
If other important practical, national and regional concerns have been dealt with in addition to this, the matter is a really coherent one.
In this respect, as a representative of my country, I welcome the special consideration given to rural development under the new Objective 2.
I also approve of the new phasing-out regulation for former Objective 1, 2 and 5b regions where regeneration has almost been achieved but a little bit more is needed.
I welcome the new Interreg regulation in particular, because we have worked long and hard on it, and I hope in particular that the regions bordering with the applicant countries at the EU's external borders will take advantage of the time and money available.
At any rate, for Austria this amounts to ATS 5 billion over the next seven years.
My enthusiasm for Agenda 2000 is limited on one decisive issue.
Is it really justifiable to celebrate the fact that we all want Europe to cost us less in the future as one of the most successful conclusions of Berlin at a time when we are all rightly calling for more European integration in employment, structural reform in general, the EU enlargement process, and solidarity for the wider Europe?
Is 1 % of Europe's gross domestic product really too much for the Member States to pay when national quotas are 40 % or more?
I do not think so!
