Madam President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am actually against waste incineration because I believe that it does not solve the problem, it merely shifts it elsewhere, and in the end the volume of waste may be reduced a little but does not disappear.
I would nevertheless like to congratulate Mr Blokland on his report and particularly on the patience he has shown, given that both these reports were in committee for a long time.
I also believe that we still need waste incineration plants because we are still a long way from a circulation economy in which everything that is produced can be recycled or buried underground.
If we need such plants we must ensure that they affect our health as little as possible and that they protect the environment as much as possible.
For this reason I also believe that it is necessary to have more stringent limit values for emissions and to bring the limit values for the various types of incineration closer into line with each other.
I do not believe that we can expect someone living near a co-incineration plant to put up with different air quality than someone living near a municipal incineration plant or someone who does not live near an incineration plant.
So we must look to improve the values here.
I tried in committee to take a step in this direction by means of a number of amendments.
I would also like to comment on the combining of the two directives, which I believe is right and for which I would like to express my support.
In my view the fact that the same limit values apply for the incineration of hazardous and non-hazardous waste is not a step backwards in environmental terms; on the contrary, I believe that it makes the values for municipal waste incineration plants more stringent.
I also believe that it may make it possible to change the way in which hazardous waste is transported in small countries such as mine, where waste from Bregenz, which is closer to Paris than to Vienna, has to be brought to Vienna.
I would welcome that.
