Mr President, Mr President-designate of the Commission, no-one should take the decision regarding the new Commission lightly.
What the citizens of Europe are expecting is for work finally to begin again after the long months of crisis and paralysis, but under better conditions which increase people' s confidence in the Commission.
The great weakness in the construction of the European Union is still there, whether or not, at the end of the day, we can only approve the Commission as a whole (and this despite the fact that we have grave reservations, at least about one Commissioner-designate).
I am aware of the fact that, as President-designate of the Commission, you have already accepted significant political demands on our part in order to make it possible for the principle of individual responsibility to be transposed.
I especially emphasise this because this demand for individual responsibility is anchored in a proposal of mine which was included in the European Parliament' s resolution of 23 March 1999.
What I wish for on behalf of my delegation but also as one of my country' s MEPs is proper supervisory control over the Commission and confidence on the part of the citizens in both the Commission and the European Parliament.
Confidence of this kind cannot be taken for granted but has to be justified over and over again.
We cannot just issue a blank cheque, nor would we want to.
We need strong, functioning institutions.
Otherwise, the European idea will not translate credibly into practice.
I subscribe totally to your programme, which is dedicated to glasnost, which is not about just tinkering with the institutions but about far-reaching reform, which strives for sustainable job creation through consistent liberalisation of the economy, which attaches a high value to the principle of subsidiarity and which considers it necessary to find adequate responses to demographic developments in Europe.
The European Union must remain attractive as a model.
The zone of peace and prosperity must, with credibility and a sense of vision, be extended to include the candidate countries for accession to an enlarged EU.
The European idea which forms the basis of the EU needs a new impulse.
The personalities who translate this idea into practice must be in a position to do this.
Individual responsibility and co-operation with Parliament in all phases of the process are indispensable prior conditions of this.
