Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lange has just mentioned that if we want to achieve objectives, we also need to produce proof.
It is intended that in order to counteract the greenhouse effect the level of emissions recorded in 1990 should not be exceeded.
It is of course because of carbon dioxide, that is CO2 , and other greenhouse gases that, as the experts have it, warming is occurring.
Admittedly, looking outside, it does not seem to be getting warmer, quite the opposite.
Nevertheless, you know that the seasons vary quite dramatically and that overall there will probably be a warming effect here.
That is why there has been a call at global level for each region to make its own contribution.
I can only say that this version of the directive as it stands in the common position also fully reflects the wishes of my group.
Various amendments proposed by Parliament have already been accepted, but now there are more.
I would like to ask Commissioner Bjerregaard if she is able to accept the committee's amendments.
This is important for us, because we believe that our amendments make for greater precision.
However, I would like to repeat that we believe this system gives us a reliable basis for preparing further legislative action, as without this overview we are really fishing in the dark.
We will only be able to ensure that we have reliable data once effective measuring and monitoring systems come into force.
Important decisions have been taken at international level since the first reading, and these have been picked up in the common position.
For example, the European Union's greenhouse gas monitoring system has been adapted to the requirements of the Kyoto Protocol.
This legislation therefore has an important part to play in implementing European climate protection policy.
I believe that Europe is really well ahead of other parts of the world in this field.
This also applies to the reporting requirements of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which stipulate that a body of data is required and that we cannot examine results until we have this data.
So I must say that the work done by Parliament in conjunction with the Commission and the Council has been a success.
I hope that we will be able to complete it as soon as possible, and that there will be no more delays, as it is important for Europe to set a good example.
