Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I want to address two points: employment policy and the announced intergovernmental conference.
Let me first take this opportunity to thank both the President-in-Office of the Council and the President of the Commission for constantly bringing up and resolutely following up the question of employment policy, even though the Santer plan was not followed up to the same extent and came to nought in the Council.
So I welcome the proposal once again to conclude a European employment pact in Cologne, especially after the preliminary discussions during the Austrian Presidency.
For I think it would be very dangerous if the grave crises of today - such as Kosovo - led us to forget that we have a social crisis within the European Union.
The President-in-Office of the Council rightly said that unemployment is the most urgent social problem of our time.
I was painfully aware that the candidate for the presidency of the EU Commission failed to address this problem in equally clear and unambiguous terms yesterday.
Let me also emphasise strongly that we need closer cooperation between the European countries and between monetary, financial and wage policy.
It is an illusion to think - and I do not think anyone would pretend it was possible - that national or regional employment policy could be replaced by an EU-wide policy.
What approach the European Central Bank takes, what kind of interest-rate and monetary policy it formulates, what kind of infrastructure is built up, whether it would not finally be possible to strengthen the European infrastructure in particular, all these things have a major impact on competitiveness, on unemployment and on the employment situation in Europe.
In my view we must not desist here but must make greater efforts to coordinate these policies.
Let me make a brief comment on the second point, the intergovernmental conference.
I want to say quite openly and plainly that I am sceptical about the notion that the European Union can be reformed simply by holding a kind of intergovernmental conference.
What the President-in-Office of the Council said here today in fact backs up this scepticism, for he said that far more comprehensive reforms will have to be undertaken.
But can the representatives of governments whose powers, means of action and influence are being taken away and transferred to the European level put together a genuine reform package by themselves?
After all Amsterdam did not just fail because of the ill will of individuals, it also failed for structural reasons, because of the way these matters are approached.
I believe we need a parliamentary constituent assembly in which this Parliament and the national parliaments cooperate at least as equal partners, as a complement to the intergovernmental conference, otherwise we will end up with another failed intergovernmental conference.
I think it is essential also to involve this Parliament more closely in this process.
