Mrs Pack, I really think we do not need to quarrel so bitterly.
Let me stress again that in connection with Kosovo, as also with Bosnia, I was not using the term emotional in any gender-specific or even discriminatory fashion, for I too feel very emotionally affected whenever I look at this issue.
I believe nobody who is concerned with it can feel otherwise.
In that regard I can also understand people taking an emotional approach - and in the case of Bosnia emotion was not the worst counsellor, if I may point that out again - but nevertheless, we must think things through to the end.
After all there is no point, Mrs Pack, in saying that an international force has to be deployed against the will of the sovereign government of that state, unlike the sovereign government of Bosnia which created a definite international legal basis for these international troops.
That is an enormous problem.
So it would create a great problem for an international force to intervene for the first time on the territory of a state recognised by all EU Member States and by the international community against the will of that state's government.
My second point concerns the participation of Russia.
At this moment in time the Russians in fact take the opposite view.
You will not get them to participate now.
Thirdly, what is the aim?
Secession?
But what does secession mean?
What does it mean, when one third of the population of Macedonia is of Albanian origin?
These are all just questions, in order to make it clear that it will do nothing for our common interests if we seem to be exchanging blows on this issue.
For these are questions which all the responsible parties ask themselves a hundred times a day.
In fact my group and also the German Government's new human rights representative and former deputy, Mr Popper, really have spent years trying to persuade the EU to become more closely involved in Kosovo and to make progress with seeking solutions there.
At a time when the KLA did not yet exist we were calling for more support to be given to Rugova, among many other things.
Unfortunately things did not go as we wished.
Today the situation is different.
But we have tried.
We invited the Albanian interlocutors to Bonn and we are remaining in close contact.
But it is also apparent that the Albanian side is of course thinking it can use the West for its own strategic ends, for goals the West does not endorse.
You must realise that too.
The Western community of states is in favour of an autonomous status, which we consider urgently necessary.
Whether and to what extent there is any historical prospect of achieving that is a legitimate question, raised by freely elected Members of the European Parliament.
In view of the experiences we have had, I consider it only natural that it should be discussed, that these issues should also be aired publicly.
But when I think of the practical end results, Mrs Pack - and I beg you not to misunderstand my words as any unseemly criticism of your position, for which I have great sympathy - I believe there is no option other than a strategy of stabilisation, however imperfect it may be at present.
And in that context, the achievement followed by the implementation of an interim political settlement for Kosovo, endorsed by the Kosovar and the Yugoslav side, is of central importance.
In my view there are only worse alternatives to this strategy of stabilisation.
That is why I have explained to you that we must do our utmost to bring about a peaceful solution, working together with our partners in the Contact Group, but also in the European Union and in other institutions.
I am of course thinking just as much of Norway, which holds the presidency of the OSCE, as of all the others who are endeavouring to bring this about.
