Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, my dear Mr Verheugen, we did nothing about Kosovo in the early days.
We have known what is happening in Kosovo since 1989.
We took no notice; we only took notice when we ourselves triggered the KLA movement.
Those are the facts and anyone who denies them has not been watching the story unfold.
Today we applaud ourselves and pat ourselves on the back for providing so much funding, which we would never have had to provide had everything not been destroyed, had the West intervened sooner.
Our group also supports the Rambouillet negotiations.
And I am glad the Europeans are playing a more important role, but as always, of course, they are too late.
I hope they are not entirely too late, but I believe we should realise that we could have made an earlier start, for instance last October.
Many people would not have died in Racak and elsewhere if we had done in October what we are doing now.
NATO's threat of air strikes must be credibly maintained.
Here I am addressing some Members of this House who are against this.
With the unconstitutional destruction of the autonomous status of Kosovo in 1989 Milosevic set in motion the disintegration of Yugoslavia as a whole, after which he stirred up nationalist resentment with his Kosovo propaganda.
He is now facing the end of his pointless policy of violence against the Kosovo Albanians and will try to extend the 15-day deadline by any means possible.
He does not and cannot want a solution to the Kosovo conflict forced upon him by the West.
For then he would lose all international significance and would finally have to govern his people.
And then his political mediocrity and incompetence would very soon become apparent.
The long-overdue prosecution in The Hague would then also become inevitable and our countries would have to produce the evidence in their possession.
So the NATO threat is indispensable.
Should an interim solution be found in Rambouillet, as we hope it will, it would have to be safeguarded by ground forces to protect the Albanians and Serbs in Kosovo.
But even if no solution is found, air strikes alone cannot secure our objectives.
We will need ground forces then too.
We are all hoping to see results, but at the same time we expect the West and NATO to show their steadfast resolve, otherwise we will bear responsibility for throwing away this last chance!
