At long last the European Parliament has now had the opportunity to discuss a Council directive regulating the organisation of the driving and working time of professional drivers and to adopt it with a few proposals for improvements.
I hope that this directive, which has been overdue since at least 1993, is finally nearing the end of the road and it remains to be hoped that it will survive the deliberations still to come in the Council without changes.
In 1993 all the transport sectors were excluded from Directive 93/104, which laid down the general working time rules.
This directive is designed to make up for what was omitted at the time.
I wonder how many people today remember the vehemence of the discussions about Directive 3820/85, which the unions believed did not go far enough, while the employers believed it interfered far too much in working life.
Today we can say that even if Directive 3820/85 did not regulate everything as might have been expected, it was a good thing that it existed at all and tried to bring order into a profession in which labour law conditions had not progressed since the time of Emile Zola's book 'Germinal '.
However, today we may well ask how the mobile workers, meaning everyone employed in transport, could possibly have remained excluded from the general social rules on working time, periods of rest and driving time.
After the negotiations with the employers on collectively agreed rules failed again, the Commission now found itself forced to decide on a legal initiative.
So the weekly working time of all professional drivers has now been fixed at 48 hours.
However, this can be extended to 60 hours a week provided the average weekly working time over a period of four months remains 48 hours.
There was in fact an amendment calling for the four-month reference period to be reduced to one month but, although appealing, it was rejected by a majority.
It is also a pity that in fixing night-work time, the formula of 10 p.m. to 6 a.m. that is usual in all other occupational sectors was not retained.
One might indeed ask why night work for transport workers is now to be calculated from midnight to 5 a.m. even though many of them work right through the night.
This means that long-distance drivers and taxi drivers who work at night are deprived of well-deserved bonuses.
The greatest improvement introduced by the new directive is in driving and working time.
Here the Commission has finally realised that replacing the concept of driving time by that of working time would improve road safety, improve the drivers' working conditions and help harmonise competition between undertakings.
In the past driving time was the sole criterion, but now the criterion for professional drivers is the period from the beginning to the end of their work, thus including all the activities involved, such as driving, loading and unloading, technical standby duty, the time spent on customs formalities, and so on.
However, the practical problems relating to controls and to monitoring compliance with social rules on road transport need to be resolved.
A first means of ensuring this is the new tachograph that will apply from the year 2000.
It not only automatically checks the time worked over a period of four months but also shows the hours worked over a one-year period.
Perhaps it can even be used as evidence that professional drivers work far longer hours than any other workers and therefore also have a right to retirement at age 55 as called for by the unions.
Be that as it may, the entry into force of the new directive, if it is respected, will bring major improvements with it, even though much will still remain to be done.
Blokland report (A4-0183/99)
