Let me say this from the point of view of the PPE: I hope that what I just heard Mrs Jensen say is not the point of view of the entire PSE Group, for that would mean the talks we have been holding over the past weeks were not very constructive.
But I believe we will manage to agree on many points during the vote tomorrow.
I particularly thank the rapporteur, David Bowe, for going to such great trouble with this report, for always being open to discussion and also being very pragmatic and determined, even if we do not agree on every point.
I hope therefore that we will manage to adopt the report tomorrow on the basis of a very broad consensus.
What is the PPE Group's standpoint?
We want safety for man and the environment, but we do not want more red tape.
I believe it is a big mistake to believe that more and more red tape will protect man and the environment from harmful effects.
We need clear rules that match up to the risk.
If we bear that in mind, as we in the PPE Group do, then we could say there is both good and bad in the Commission proposal.
And there is both good and bad in the report from the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection.
In the Commission proposal we particularly welcome the improved labelling provisions, compared with those in the original directive, and we welcome the fact that the Committee on the Environment has improved them again.
We particularly welcome the fact that the Commission has opted for the simplified procedure.
We also welcome the fact that provision is made for at least a rudimentary majority-state procedure.
What is very negative about the Commission proposal is that it lays down that consent shall generally be granted for a fixed period of 7 years.
Let me ask the Commissioner: what is the scientific basis for these 7 years?
What risks arise after precisely 7 years?
Do they occur after 7 years for all GMOs?
Why not after 6 or 8 years, why not after 12, 15 or 2 years?
We are in favour of the approach that has become established in pharmaceutical law.
If there is a risk, then the consent must be withdrawn at once, without waiting until the seventh year.
If there is no risk, then there is no need for a time limit.
So we are very much against any general time limit.
We agree with the Committee on the Environment's proposal to make this a discretionary rather than a fixed provision.
I would prefer to be even more specific here.
That is why we have tabled an amendment.
We want time-limits to be the exception, justified on scientific grounds.
But the Committee on the Environment is moving in the right direction here.
On another question the committee is moving in the wrong direction.
I listed a number of points in the preliminary discussions.
One important point we are discussing again tonight is the question of socio-economic criteria.
I believe that you are giving the Americans a through ball here.
If we make authorisation conditional on socio-economic criteria, we will be taken for a ride at the WTO.
Then we will not have a chance to gain the support of any panel in this area.
For that reason alone we should not take that decision.
The PPE Group's decision at the final vote will depend on whether the disputed points, which we have also raised in committee, are properly clarified and agreed.
I hope we will all be able to vote for the report tomorrow and thereby send out a good signal for biotechnology in Europe.
