Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I listened to your statement very carefully, Mr Verheugen.
I have something to say on one point which may well be important for the negotiations.
Tomorrow, when the House votes on Mrs Haug's report on own resources, it may pronounce itself in favour of 50 % cofinancing in agricultural policy.
In view of both this decision tomorrow and the forthcoming elections, I think it is absolutely essential that we do actually have all the alternatives on the table for the final showdown.
We all know that cofinancing of agricultural policy is actually the right way forward.
It may not be accepted because of opposition from individual countries, but it is the only approach which leaves the way open for a genuine structural policy for rural areas.
Should there not be a move towards cofinancing, however - which is of course likely - then we need, in any case, to develop corrective mechanisms or capping systems which come as close as possible to meeting the desired objective.
I would like a scheme, a capping system, which, once we have taken the first step, will inevitably lead on to further reforms.
Were we not to succeed in doing this in the negotiations, then in my view we would be faced with a complete disaster on the first day of enlargement, because we all know that step-by-step reductions and capping alone are not much help to us when the question we really need to answer is how to restructure agricultural policy.
We also know that the real problem with agricultural policy does not lie in the agricultural policy of the 15 present Member States, but in the agricultural policy of those who are to join us, because that is where the heartland of European farming is to be found.
That is why I would emphasise once again that it is important for absolutely all of the alternatives to be on the table.
Only then will it be possible to find a genuine compromise, which the German Presidency can then pull out of the hat with the kind of flourish which people like to see at a summit of this sort.
For this I hope you have a good hand!
