Mr President, we have been discussing this subject here in Parliament for roughly two and a half years.
We are now nearing the completion of the work.
Of course some questions and problems remain unresolved, but I do not want to go into that in my statement today at the close of the debate.
I think it is important to ask what lessons should be drawn from the BSE crisis and what lessons should be drawn for the European Union's future policy.
How can we prevent this kind of thing from ever happening again?
I would be interested to know: can this kind of disaster happen again, yes or no?
That is what we really need to know today.
Has our perception - by which I mean the perception of Parliament, of this Commission and of a new Commission - and has the style of our policy now changed radically in relation to what they were three, five or even 15 years ago?
Of course absolute transparency is important here.
For instance, scientific advice, scientific checks, tests, inspections and controls must be carried out and accepted as a matter of course, even if the results may be inconvenient.
It is also important, as Mr Böge just said, to make preventive consumer protection and the precautionary principle the first principle in all other policy areas.
That may often be inconvenient, as indeed it was in the past.
It may be inconvenient for agricultural policy.
It may also be inconvenient for economic policy or foreign trade; it creates an enormous disturbance in these policy areas!
But only if the Commission and the European Parliament uphold and opt for the precautionary principle in cases of doubt will we prevent something like BSE from happening again.
In relation to the negotiations with the World Trade Organisation that logically means giving precedence to the precautionary principle over the smooth running of world trade.
We will very soon be facing the acid test here, with the question of whether we will in future allow growth hormones in meat from the United States in the European Union.
Will the Commission go on taking a tough line here, be hard as nails?
It remains to be seen!
During the work on BSE Mrs Bonino took a very steadfast and positive approach.
We appreciated that, and Mr Böge has just acknowledged it too.
For me as also for my group, the criterion for a new Commission must be whether consumer protection and preventive health protection are given precedence over the smooth running of trade policy.
I am convinced that only then can we give a vote of confidence to a new Commission for only then can we hope never to experience another disaster like BSE.
We will find out in the next few months whether that will be the case.
We will see what names are put forward for the new Commission and what approach the president-designate of the Commission takes.
In his statement to the European Parliament yesterday Mr Prodi never once used the words consumer protection, precautionary principle or anything of that kind.
We hope they are on his mind if not on his lips!
But we do not know.
We will find out in the future.
But I am convinced that we ourselves here in the European Parliament would all be making a mistake if we supported him or a new Commission that did not say very plainly whether in a situation where there is reason for doubt it will decide in favour of trade or in favour of agriculture.
We too must carry out our tasks, which is why we have always questioned the Commission.
Our task in future will be carefully to examine and question this new Commission which - whoever its members are - will not yet be in office.
We must ask it how it will decide in a given situation.
If we are being serious here, we must only give this Commission a vote of confidence if the answers are satisfactory.
Then perhaps we will have some slight hope that preventive consumer protection will really play an important part in the Commission's discussions, to ensure that nothing like BSE ever happens again.
