Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, a key theme in the debates in the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights has of course been whether we should go for the principle of maximum harmonisation proposed by the Commission or whether we should stick to minimum harmonisation for the time being.
In the end, a majority was in favour of the minimum harmonisation approach.
We agreed that it might be sensible to switch to maximum harmonisation in the foreseeable future.
However, the starting point for this principle should not be the financial services directive itself.
Instead, the directive on distance marketing of goods should be included in this right from the beginning.
There is an urgent need to bring the two distance marketing directives into line with the directive on electronic commerce, as soon as we know what form it will finally take.
Despite the need for such adjustments in the future, we should point the way now towards the healthy development of distance marketing of financial services in Europe - healthy for service providers and healthy for consumers.
I therefore welcome the fact that the committee responsible shares my view that we should not have a reflection period, which is an absurdity in legal and practical terms, but that a general right of withdrawal should be introduced instead.
However, what I do not agree with is the length of the withdrawal period, which is now 30 days in the committee's report.
I feel that this is far too long and will above all make financial services more expensive for consumers.
I think that 14 days as from the time when the customer has full knowledge of the contractual terms and conditions is adequate.
Furthermore, the list of exceptions to the right of withdrawal still needs to be added to.
In particular, it should take account of mortgages and the contracts already mentioned by the rapporteur, 'contracts which have come into being with full notarial advice given to the consumer'.
Nor do I share the scepticism and anxiety about electronic communication which is evident in some amendments.
A consumer who does not want to make use of it will not have to, and can continue to have personal contact with his bank and insurance company.
But we should not make things too difficult for those people who do want to use these new facilities, by demanding that everything is duplicated on paper, for example.
That is not the way to develop the enormous potential of distance marketing of financial services for business and for the consumer.
