Mr President, the reform of the organisation of the market in wine is another case where the EU must eliminate the problems at their source, instead of only intervening - as it always does - when the floodgates have already been breached.
Distillation and the grubbing-up premium are typical end-of-pipe solutions.
They actually ought to be abolished, because distillation is an invitation to produce massive quantities of lower-quality wine, and the grubbing-up premium encourages the transfer of production from regions which are problematic in terms of labour costs, but important in terms of regional culture, to rationalised, export-driven production.
We will only counter overproduction by introducing comprehensive new quality criteria.
I would caution against the belief that here too genetic engineering can be of assistance.
We wish to retain the historical lands developed and cultivated by man and to safeguard an appropriate income for wine growers.
In the long term, quality is the only way this can be achieved.
I am particularly concerned about this, because I believe that we will only be able to defend our European viniculture at the next WTO round if we are able to throw something into the ring related to the environment, social policy and quality, because the Americans would like to have our designation of origin off the negotiating table and to negotiate about brand names instead.
That would mean that Coca-Cola could buy the Bordeaux name and then resell the cheapest wines in the world under that name.
But that is not what we want!
We must therefore have good arguments to explain why designation of origin needs to consist of more than alcohol content, quality grade and colour.
The much vaunted EU model of agriculture will only carry weight and have any substance if we are able to designate regional, social and environmental characteristics for each wine and thus also enter into the negotiations on the offensive.
We support Mr Martin's report and we say one thing: quality not quantity!
