Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, Mr President of the Commission, reaching a compromise in Berlin which is acceptable to everyone is not only about keeping to our timetable for Agenda 2000; it is also - and this should be made clear to the German Presidency - about our credibility.
It is about our credibility in the eyes of all the people in the Union, but above all it is about our credibility towards the 27 million who are unemployed, whom we repeatedly assure that both the Member States and the European Union itself will make every effort to combat unemployment as effectively - and above all as quickly - as possible.
The Social Fund is the only instrument of labour market policy which we have at European level, and that is why it needs to be pressed into service for the employment strategy as soon as possible.
It is not without reason that we also want, in the future, to use the Social Fund throughout the European Union to combat youth and long-term unemployment.
Unemployment is not a problem which is only confined to particular regions; it is a problem which extends across the Community and that is precisely why it would be wrong, if appropriations for the Structural Funds were reduced, to cut Social Fund appropriations outside the eligible areas by 40 %, as allowed for in Council plans.
If you cancel Objective 3 resources in this way, how do you expect people to continue to believe that the Social Fund is going to help to make the employment strategy, which we want so much, a reality across the European Union?
In fact, we all know from past experience that it was not least the Social Fund which time and again forced Member States and regions to adopt new and innovative methods, in order, with European money, to get people back to work or indeed to shield them from unemployment.
Let us take the example of preventive labour market policy, which is today one of the four pillars of our employment strategy.
In 1994, however, when the Social Fund introduced this prophylactic approach to labour market policy in the Member States for the first time, many Member States - and also the German Länder - fought it tooth and nail.
But its success speaks for itself, and it really does show once more the significance of European added value.
The same is true of vocational training in Italy.
Without the Social Fund, the relevant measures would perhaps still not exist today.
I am also thinking of the certification system for training courses which has been developed so successfully throughout Greece, and of the support provided by the Social Fund for the disabled, which has moved the United Kingdom from the bottom of the European league to the top in terms of integrating the disabled, or I might think of the school drop-out rate in Ireland, which has been reduced by almost half.
This is not just progress in terms of labour market policy; the Fund also works to create social change and makes Europe something people can experience in a very practical way in the place where they live, which also increases its acceptance.
In Portugal, they can tell you a thing or two about this.
For example, without the Social Fund, illiteracy here would not have fallen by anywhere near as much as it has done.
Or you only have to consider mainstreaming.
Here too, and this is long overdue, Europe is forging the way ahead, although - and I am under no illusions here - the path is certainly still a hazardous one.
That is why we must ensure that no Member State is able to avoid implementing specific support measures for women.
That applies equally to the four other spheres of intervention: measures to combat youth and long-term unemployment; social integration; general and professional training; and preventive labour market policy.
I will conclude, therefore, with this urgent plea to the Council: do not free the Member States from their obligation to take action in each of the five spheres of intervention of the Social Fund.
Cherry-picking does not give European added value; instead, it reinforces national single-track approaches.
