Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, may I say that in my view you made a respectable statement which was fine-tuned and showed great courteousness towards Parliament.
Yet I am still not entirely satisfied with the Berlin conclusions.
Agricultural policy is not necessarily your political field, but what you produced in this respect was not a huge success.
You said in your statement that a clear signal must be sent out to the markets.
That signal is being sent out in the wrong direction.
Adherence to intervention signals to the Central and Eastern European states that they should abandon their markets and aim at intervention.
That is the wrong direction to take.
You also spoke, in a different connection, about solidarity with the weak.
But there are weak groups in agriculture too, and the absence of a degressive system and the graduated system have done nothing for the smaller farmers; instead the smaller undertakings will now suffer from the price reduction and the fact that they are not fully compensated.
I do not want to hear any more from you, the Chancellor, about how efficient the large undertakings are, for it is into the large, rationalised undertakings that EU funds are flowing, which makes it easy for them to operate.
The smaller undertakings have adjusted to the market.
That is where the real achievement lies, and they should have been supported.
I admit that provision is made for this under the second pillar.
That is the only glimmer of light in the agricultural field.
Thirdly, on budgetary discipline: to save is not in itself a quality.
I hope you agree with me there.
There should have been a more definite restructuring here, the kind of modulation of agricultural funding proposed by the Commission.
In fact I would like to praise Mr Fischler here.
What the Commission proposed would also have sent out a signal to the smaller undertakings, who adjust to the market.
That institution must now remain able to act.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, please urge the intergovernmental conference to include agricultural policy in the codecision procedure.
It is urgently necessary for Parliament to obtain the right to specific and substantive codecision powers in this area too.
