What we are voting on indirectly is to grant the Santer Commission discharge for 1996, so I shall be voting for the discharge and thus expressing confidence in the Commission presided over by Jacques Santer.
This has been a difficult decision for me too, as the European Court of Auditors' report quite rightly drew attention to the sloppy way certain Commissioners and some of their officials carried out their work.
However, Jacques Santer is not to blame for that, as with the best will in the world he cannot intervene in his Commissioners' individual departments.
However, it has to be said that the European Parliament has repeatedly called on both the European institutions and the national authorities to manage the money entrusted to them more carefully.
Unfortunately, the President of the Court of Auditors has once again reported that the Community lost billions last year because individual administrative units failed to cooperate satisfactorily.
But in this case it is not the Commission we are calling upon to discharge its duties properly, but rather the individual Member States, who have failed to equip their administrations so as to enhance European cooperation.
Although the European Court of Auditors and the European Parliament have repeatedly called for improved and more rapid checks, it is obvious that the Member States do not have the will to act here.
Remedial action is called for.
This cannot be achieved by sacking the Santer Commission.
Of course, it would have been in the interest of the Commission as a whole if a couple of Commissioners had accepted political responsibility for their actions, but as they have not done so, we shall in future have to find a way of avoiding a cliff-hanging censure vote potentially leading to the removal of the entire Commission.
As the supreme monitoring body, Parliament should be given the right to fire individual Commissioners and officials who do not carry out their duties in the general interest, even if this does not suit certain governments.
If we cannot achieve this, then I feel sorry for any future Commission President, as the present system, with all its faults, will go unchanged.
All the more so in view of the enlargement of the European Union, which will certainly not make matters any easier.
Furthermore, the European Parliament will not in future be able to opt out of exercising its absolute control function.
In the hope that this will never be necessary again, I shall, as I have already said, vote to grant discharge to the Commission under Jacques Santer.
