Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Budgetary Control has repeatedly considered the system of own resources on the basis of the various reports by the Court of Auditors.
Mrs Haug has now done an extremely comprehensive job on behalf of the Committee on Budgets, but I am sorry to have to say that the great number of amendments tabled in committee have not made the whole business any clearer or more convincing.
Basically I would like to point out that as long as the issue is confined to the fair distribution between the Member States of the own resources that have to be found, we will keep having to deal with conflicting financial and budgetary interests, to bemoan the lack of transparency and lack of ascribability of both revenue and expenditure.
Only if the contribution of each individual taxpayer throughout Europe is taken seriously and evaluated could this dispute be brought to an end.
That is why I particularly regret the rejection of the proposal from our Committee on Budgetary Control that the Commission provide information concerning the possibility of personalising the contributions that feed the own resources system.
We should adhere to the principle of own resources, even if only traditional own resources - duties and agricultural levies - are genuine own resources, which in addition have been regressive for years.
In addition, the Member States deduct these own resources as their contribution and ask for 10 % of them back for their customs administrations.
One should at least check whether this 10 % can be appropriated for the customs administrations in the first place.
At any rate, there is still quite a lot of circumvention and evasion in this area by the Member States.
VAT-based own resources are tending increasingly to take the form of national contributions to the EU budget.
Their share is being distorted because of the size of the black economy in some states.
GNP-based own resources still correspond most closely to contributions.
But I am sorry that the net-contributor issue is not being resolved at all.
I am in favour of cofinancing, I am in favour of the phased abolition of the British rebate and I am also in favour of examining the question of new own resources.
