Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is the diversity, its variety, the special characteristics, the taste and - last but not least - the way it is identified with specific regions that ultimately sets European wine apart.
We now find ourselves faced with the difficult task of trying to regulate this diversity within a Common Market Organisation, and to regulate it in such a way that this diversity is preserved.
We do not want a uniform European wine, but we do want a legal framework that is workable.
I come from one of Europe's northern wine-growing areas, from the Mosel region.
Our wines grow in different climatic conditions, which makes them different, but they have their connoisseurs, and there is certainly a market for them.
I would like to thank the Commission and our rapporteur Mr Martin, and also the Agriculture Committee, for making it possible to reach a compromise on this common organisation for wine, which, in recognition of the specific characteristics of individual regions, provides for traditional wine-growing practices to be maintained.
This means the wine from Europe's regions that we know and appreciate will be preserved.
Jobs in upstream and downstream sectors will also be preserved, as will our agricultural landscapes.
You can regulate the market, but you cannot regulate nature, the weather and the harvest.
I am therefore in favour of setting a quantity of wine that can be marketed in any given year.
Our wine-growing regions have already set corresponding maximum yields per hectare.
But I am vehemently opposed to the Commission's proposal that if the yield per hectare is exceeded by 120 % the entire harvest would lose the right to be designated as quality wine.
Up to now, quality wine has not been regulated in this way.
Every farmer and every wine grower is dependent on the weather, and good years are needed to compensate for bad ones.
Wine from years when there was a good harvest can be marketed during years with poorer yields, as a way of ensuring the income of family businesses.
So we should allow carry-over.
I would particularly ask you to consider this point again.
