Madam President, I would just like to say first that last week we really got a lot of work done.
I was very pleased to see how attentive you were, as President, to all the requirements and questions which we or the administrative officials had.
To the Members I would like to mention really two points, which were mentioned here and which were decided in the College of Quaestors: your filing cabinets have not only been decided upon, they have already been ordered.
We are assuming that they will also be delivered as quickly as possible.
Secondly, the matter of the building decoration.
French law in this connection is very strict and treats this building as a work of art, over which the architects have intellectual property rights.
But we have decided - intellectual property rights or not - to discuss things with the architects to see if we can make all the dark areas somewhat brighter.
If it is already dark in the July season, how is it going to look in the December light?
We do not want to do that to ourselves or to you.
I hope we can make the red more pink, the dark blue perhaps light blue or something similar, and the black perhaps a champagne colour, Madam President.
A third point which seems very important to me and to all of us is safety, something you yourself, Madam President, did not necessarily mention in detail.
You recall that it was mentioned, and now it has also been decided, that the safety of the building should be retested twice a year, that is, every six months.
We consider it essential that a building which is used so intensively by so many different groups, and sometimes used in a somewhat chaotic and anarchic manner - this chaos says something for the liveliness of European politics - is also inspected on a very regular basis.
A body such as the European Parliament cannot itself vouch for safety, cannot be responsible for it; it must be able to delegate it.
Indeed that is what we intend to do.
By the way, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the College of Quaestors I would like to ask you, if you have complaints, to formulate them, and come to us.
With your support, Madam President, matters will be rectified as quickly as possible.
