Mr President-in-Office of the Council, on behalf of my group I want to express our full support for the joint action by the EU and NATO states, whose sole purpose is to put a stop to the genocide in Kosovo.
The plight of the Kosovar Albanians finally sunk in last year.
Finally, every political means was applied, but they had no prospect of succeeding against the Belgrade butcher.
Bosnia could have taught us that.
I do understand, however, that democracies are finding it hard to use military force, since they were not constantly updated on Milosevic's reign of terror in Kosovo.
Milosevic has no interest whatsoever in the people living in his own country.
He has no respect for mankind!
That is shown by the mass graves in Croatia and Bosnia.
It is shown by the deportations in Kosovo, by the countless acts of rape and the cruel murder of many Albanians.
Over all the years of the apartheid regime, Milosevic's governors had already committed countless murders and acts of torture.
I myself found evidence of many of these atrocities in Kosovo between 1991 and 1998 and repeatedly denounced them, at a time when all the western politicians were simply looking the other way.
Milosevic does not care about the welfare of his Serbian citizens either, who have been the economic and psychological victims of his policy for many years.
Unfortunately, however, the bomb attacks on Serbia have led a good number of Serbian citizens to mistakenly rally round Milosevic.
Milosevic has always used nationalism as a means of maintaining himself in power.
But nationalism dumbs people down and leads them astray, as we have seen on several occasions during this century.
Milosevic did not in fact set in motion his devilish machinery to wipe out a whole people at the moment when NATO started bombing.
Unfortunately these bombing raids were the only logical response to his atrocities.
Continued inaction would have made the west more guilty before history than this targeted bombing which, we hope, has a definite political aim.
But the political solution must on no account be the partition of Kosovo.
If we accepted that we would ourselves be creating a potential flashpoint there for the next hundred years.
Since 1990 I have been trying in vain here to make the Council and the Commission aware of Milosevic's planned strategy.
The sanu memorandum of 1985 drawn up by the Serbian Academy of Sciences spells out that strategy.
It also states that Kosovo will be partitioned if he cannot be contained, a partition into the wealthy north with its rich mineral resources, what is known as 'the cradle of the Serbians', and the poor south, whose existence would sooner or later destroy the state of Macedonia and thus create serious difficulties throughout the region.
In my view, the only solution at this point is an autonomous Kosovo, in which the citizens are returned home under the protection of international troops.
The further political future of Kosovo depends very much on a change in the Belgrade regime and the democratisation of Serbia.
The leading figures round Milosevic and Milosevic himself must also be brought before the Hague tribunal.
On behalf of my group I support all the diplomatic efforts made by the presidency of the Council.
But there is one other thing I would ask of you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council.
I beseech you to make even greater efforts to enable Mr Ibrahim Rugova, our Sakharov prize-winner, and his family, to leave the country.
Applause
After abandoning him for years by its pacifist tolerance of the apartheid regime, the west now owes it to him to at least ensure that he and his family receive exit visas.
I cordially ask you to do this for humanitarian reasons!
Loud applause
