Madam President, I too think that Mr Cox's proposal is very reasonable, and I am prepared to vote in favour of it.
I should also like to thank Mr Spencer, who has, after all, kept the home fires burning for many years.
Unfortunately, the fire will probably have to burn for even longer, because I suspect that the Council of Ministers will not reach an agreement.
That is also illustrated even now by the very inconsistent picture here in the House.
That is the real problem.
In this respect, I think that the Commission proposal is sensible, because it does not in fact take the environment as a starting-point, but Article 99, and therefore the harmonisation of existing taxes.
I think that is much more sensible; it brings us closer to our goal perhaps, simply because liberalising the markets means that we are compelled to harmonise the background conditions too.
The fact that this also has an environmental side-effect is all to the good.
Whether the Council appreciates that, I do not know; I suspect that there will be substantial difficulties there, but in any case I wish the German Presidency the best of luck with making further progress on this.
I have one more comment: paradoxically, it is actually industry which has had the greatest success in cutting its energy use in recent years, while private consumption and consumption in the transport sector have tended to increase.
This is plain to see in the countries of Central Europe.
In proportion to gross domestic product, energy consumption has fallen, in some cases dramatically, while the energy consumption of households and the transport sector has risen.
If, therefore, we wish to have a device, an environmental device, for reducing energy consumption, we must, I am afraid, mainly target households and the transport sector and design a tax instrument in such a way that it particularly affects them.
That is probably also why this tax is so unpopular.
No party will win an election if it puts this at the centre of its campaign.
Nevertheless, I see this as a long-term task which we have to set ourselves, and I should like to thank all those who are working on introducing these thoroughly unpopular, but reasonable measures.
