Mr President, Commissioners, Mr Azzolini's report on the links between regional policy and competition policy is a most important one.
It deals with concerns that directly affect the people in the Member States and the regions.
The resolution may not have any direct impact on the progress of the regional policy reform, yet it must be regarded as directly linked to it, given that we are talking about coherence between European and national regional aid.
Some Member States have no problem with the requirement of coherence which the Commission is laying down in order to secure its competition policy aims because almost their entire territory is covered by European aid.
But the situation is different in some other countries.
Here the dual approach of concentrating the European objective areas on the essential ones, which is right, while at the same time calling for maximum coherence with national aids, sometimes imposes a double burden that is very difficult in regional policy terms.
How can we explain to the people living in the regions concerned that both European and national aid is prohibited, despite the imminent threat of unemployment, despite the absence of promising job prospects?
It is a contradiction in terms for the Commission quite rightly to provide for multiannual transitional periods for phasing out European aid, which ensures that the regions have time to adjust, while using a sledge hammer to reduce national aid and calling for this to be phased out as quickly as possible.
The 2 % flexibility margin is not enough, nor is it convincing.
Nor is there any justification for it being 2 % rather than more or less.
That does not mean that the Commission's endeavour to bring about greater coherence is wrong as such.
In the long term we need a more balanced coverage if we want to avoid distortions of competition.
But the Commission is not taking sufficient account of the special problems of the regions when it subordinates everything to the imperative of free competition and tries to cut back European aid while at the same time taking away any means of granting national aid to compensate for this in a flexible manner.
That would take away any chance of adjustment for many of the regions.
In that respect I welcome the fact that agreement seems to be emerging between the Council and the Commission on taking a more flexible approach to the flexibility question, on not specifying any target dates and giving the Member States more margin for decision.
So the discussion we held in Parliament has had the desired effect.
