Mr President, this Commission proposal is intended to replace, from 1 January 1999, the existing directive 88/166/EEC on battery cages with a directive on the protection of laying hens kept in a variety of rearing systems.
These are only minimum standards.
The Commission's proposal implements the revision clause in Article 9 of the existing directive, whereby, on the basis of a report by the Scientific Veterinary Committee, it must put forward proposals for adaptation to take account of advances in our knowledge.
All new rearing systems will have to have nests, perches and litter.
Conventional cages without nests and litter may continue, exceptionally, to be permitted by Member States, but they must allow at least 800 cm2 floor area per bird and be at least 50 cm high at all points.
Under certain circumstances, old systems may continue in use until 31 December 2008 at the latest.
Our committee welcomed the Commission proposal because it is a step in the right direction, in other words it seeks to improve the conditions in which laying hens are kept.
In the first place, there is the increasing of the minimum floor area per bird from 450 to 800 cm2 , a measure which we particularly welcome, since the widely held view is that the current rules do not allow birds to follow their natural behaviour patterns, with the result that they are not kept in a manner appropriate to their species.
Regrettably, in formulating minium requirements for other rearing systems, the Commission only went half way.
The rules for non-cage systems in enclosed premises are incomplete, and above all there are no provisions on stocking density.
On free-range farming, there are no provisions at all.
We find that unfortunate, since the new directive will mean greater competition between the different rearing systems.
We therefore call on the Commission to bring forward a proposal on this shortly.
Also regrettable in the committee's view is the fact that the new 'enriched' cage with a nestbox, perches and litter, which in future is to be the standard cage, is not defined in detail.
I think we have helped to remedy that.
We also suggested that the date on which the new directive comes into force should be put back by two years, because the timetable envisaged by the Commission is totally unrealistic.
By the deadline it is setting, there will not be any cages on the market in the form specified for commercial use.
We also want a tighter definition of the Commission's monitoring activity.
This is because if the Commission merely tightens up the conditions for farming and changes the obligation to conduct on-the-spot inspections into an option, it is not carrying out its duty to ensure that the directive is complied with throughout the EU.
I shall move on now to the socio-economic considerations.
In addition to the option of cofinanced investment aids under the efficiency Regulation 950/97/EC, the committee is proposing the introduction of a system of aid which is independent of production, limited in time and paid on a reducing scale.
We think this tax mechanism will encourage reluctant Member States to adopt higher standards of animal welfare, and we urge the Council and Commission to consider this proposal closely.
The committee also wants care to be taken to ensure that Community producers are not disadvantaged vis-à-vis imports from non-Union countries.
In particular, this means that imports must meet the same animal welfare, veterinary and hygiene standards as EU products.
At this point, I should like to add a few words on the demand for a total ban on battery cages, made primarily by animal welfare groups.
The committee did not use the term 'battery cage' in connection with the new proposal for a directive, because it is inadequate and misleading.
There are at least three types of cage and each one, including the so-called 'enriched' cage, can be used as part of a battery.
So the term 'battery cage' only tells us how the cage is used, but nothing about its dimensions and properties.
Our committee therefore suggests that the term 'conventional cages' should be used to describe the cages defined in the current directive.
It is true that the October 1996 report of the Scientific Veterinary Committee concludes that 'because of its small size and barrenness, the battery cage as used at present has inherent severe disadvantages for the welfare of hens.'
But the key words here are 'at present', because the Veterinary Committee also says that alternative farming systems have serious disadvantages due to the risk of pecking and cannibalism ...
The President cut the speaker off
