Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, I am convinced that my group too supports you, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, in the pursuit of human rights and in the action to protect the people in Kosovo.
We know what a heavy responsibility has to be shouldered at a time such as this.
And here we certainly must be in a position really to define the aim of the war and to bring the operation to a conclusion.
Mrs Doris Pack will be discussing that in more detail.
But I believe this should also be a warning to us that we must at last embark on a viable European foreign, security and defence policy.
Applause
During the remainder of your term of office until the end of June, it is your task, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, to implement the appropriate provisions of the Treaty of Amsterdam in relation to key issues.
It should not be left to the technocrats.
Instead, this potential should be put to real political use, so as to give us a greater ability to act and enable us in future to pursue the kind of foreign policy that will not allow a situation such as that in Kosovo to arise in the first place, that will not mean having to resort to armed force.
Applause
On Berlin, I believe that a number of mistakes were made not in Berlin but before Berlin.
I agree with you that the choice of Mr Romano Prodi was a good choice.
But if the presidency of the Council had cooperated with Parliament on this matter earlier on, in January this year, then we might not have got into this situation at all.
Applause
When I think back to some of the statements made in December last year I am tempted to measure the outcome of the negotiations on Agenda 2000 against what you yourself considered necessary at the time from a German perspective.
However, I speak here not as a German representative but on behalf of my group.
That is something else you had to learn as President-in-Office of the Council: that these are two different things!
Laughter
I agree that we should not undo the Agenda 2000 package.
But the European Parliament attaches great value to obtaining margins of manoeuvre in relation to other policies, margins of manoeuvre in foreign and security policy, margins of manoeuvre that would, for instance, also relate to enlargement.
After all, the uncertainty in relation to agricultural policy has given rise to new concerns among the applicant countries about time-scales.
We should make it clear that these uncertainties inherent in Agenda 2000 will not mean any delays in enlargement.
Kosovo teaches us that we should use every means available to push enlargement ahead as quickly as possible.
I believe it is our political responsibility to do so.
Applause
You will have to prepare the Cologne summit.
This concerns the intergovernmental conference.
We eagerly wait to see what kind of mandate is defined and in what way the European Parliament will be involved in that intergovernmental conference.
We would like to be involved in the same way as the Commission.
For the rest, it would have been a good step in that direction if the President of the European Parliament had also taken part in today's informal summit.
He was not invited!
Applause
I also think it would be a good idea to make use of the possibilities offered by the Amsterdam Treaty in relation to justice and home affairs.
In the light of Kosovo, we should move rapidly towards the possibility of majority decisions on questions of asylum and immigration policy.
That could be achieved by a simple Council decision and it should be done in order to create a genuine ability to act in this area.
I think it is right for the Cologne summit to attach great importance to employment policy.
But we should ensure that the discussions are substantive.
We should make it clear who really can actively pursue employment policy in Europe.
If an employment pact is concluded that has no real substance but that gives the impression that Europe can resolve this problem, and if it then turns out that it cannot resolve the problem because it does not have the necessary instruments, that will damage Europe.
European employment policy must not be used as an alibi for the failure of national employment policies!
We will put great emphasis on that when we evaluate the Cologne summit.
Loud applause
