Mr President, we have arranged that I will speak first and try to respond to Mr Azzolini's report.
My colleague Mr Van Miert will then address the many concrete questions raised in connection with the competition report.
First I want to thank Mr Azzolini for his most interesting and careful report.
I am also grateful that we agree at least on the question of principle, namely that we need greater coherence between national and regional aid policies.
Let me emphasise again, as others have rightly said, that different problems are involved here.
In relation to Objective 1 we already have equal cover between competition aid and regional aid from European resources.
So no problems can arise here, whereas problems can indeed arise in areas where we have less competition aid and where the need for concentration - for Agenda 2000 to lead to greater geographical concentration - basically means that the aid must be reduced from two sides.
Nevertheless I believe that we must begin by emphasising the logic of our policy.
For it makes no sense, given that we concentrate European resources on a minimum number of eligible regions, namely those that have to undergo the biggest structural adjustment processes, for us then to allocate all the resources to these regions, not just European money but also the higher aid intensity.
It makes no sense to embark on a kind of division of labour that would mean that European structural policy looked after the less eligible areas and that national aid was then concentrated on the areas most in need of structural adjustment.
I do not think that would be logical.
What we are in fact proposing is to widen the Member States' regional margin for play, for as a rule national competition aid covers areas wider than those that can be supported through the Structural Funds.
That means that over and above European structural aid the national states and the regional authorities have a variety of means of supporting their structurally weak areas.
Mrs Randzio-Plath was quite right when she said that unfortunately far less use is made of aid that is authorised, aid for environmental improvement and technological development, than of aid for individual undertakings, which very often does not offer any guarantee that this investment will lead to integrated regional development.
That is why I believe that it does indeed make sense to establish more congruence between Objective 2 aid and Article 92(3)(c).
A number of Members have pointed out that on 25 January this year the Foreign Ministers' Council reached agreement on a compromise, which I shall briefly describe to you because it is important to your further discussions.
Let me take up what Mr Rack said, namely that Parliament can play a careful part in the discussions and in seeking Agenda 2000 solutions only if it also has the appropriate information.
I shall therefore read out part of the Foreign Ministers' agreement: 'In the interests of efficient programme planning, the regions undergoing economic and social adjustment must to a large extent be the same regions that are assisted by the Member States under Article 92(3)(c).
Here the Community's aim should be to achieve better coherence by the end of the period 2000 to 2006, with the Member States making the appropriate efforts - in accordance with their situation at the time.'
As I am sure you will notice, this is not necessarily the most direct way of saying that we want to improve the situation.
And I am sure it is no secret either that Mr Van Miert and I myself would certainly have wished to see better coherence.
Nevertheless, I believe that the compromise the Council has now reached will at least lead, on the one side, to rather more flexibility, which is something Parliament has always called for, but - and I believe it is important to note this, given also what Mrs Schroedter said - will also impose an obligation on the Member States to contribute through this regulation to a greater concentration.
Mrs McCarthy may no longer be here, but I would say that consensus will win the day only if we actually succeed in the end in bringing about greater coherence, not because we are purists or take fundamentalist positions in the Commission, but because that is the only way we can actually achieve the effects we want.
In regard to timing, the problems of competition policy and structural policy do indeed differ.
We take the view that the agreement that has now been reached in regard to the common communication will help us find sensible and closely coordinated solutions in both competition and structural policy.
Regarding subsidy shopping, let me point out that we are calling for a certain sustainability of investment for both policies, to ensure that once they have pocketed the aid undertakings do not then relocate and then claim new aid, be it national or European.
In relation to structural policy I just want to point out that I believe that if the monitoring committees play more part in the evaluation and are also given a more substantial role, there will be careful discussion about the sustainability of the investments and that the a major criterion for granting or not granting aid will be whether the assisted undertaking really is established in that region.
That could mobilise a substantial steering instrument.
I hope that in future the monitoring committees will ensure this too.
Let me return now to the concentration of aid on the most disadvantaged regions.
During this debate many speakers have said that this concentration is the crux of the reform and that without concentration any positive effects for poorer regions would be reduced out.
That is why I think it is so important that we do not counteract our own endeavours by watering down the 75 % criterion.
For the rest, the ultraperipheral regions do not face any problems, because they all fulfil the strict 75 % criterion.
In the case of Objective 6 regions we must indeed differentiate, as we must for islands, because there the state of development differs widely and we must all take that into consideration.
We would be doing ourselves no favour if we said that exceptions would guarantee everyone their own special rules; instead we must ensure that the level of aid is adjusted to the severity of the problems.
In that sense I hope we will agree during the further discussions on Agenda 2000, and above all its implementation, on the need jointly to promote the necessary coherence so that the structurally weakest areas can catch up.
