Mr President, Ombudsman, Commissioner, it seldom happens that the quality of a rapporteur's work is quite so pleasing as the content of this report.
The European Ombudsman's annual report for 1998 shows that his institution has now become one of the best-functioning and most effective in the European Union.
This applies particularly in terms of closeness to the people, which as we all know is one of the fundamental principles of the European Union.
Mrs De Esteban Martín highlights this point so convincingly in her report that one can only hope it will be very widely read, particularly by those who would be responsible for fulfilling Professor Söderman's requests for his office to have its own budget and for the change of status he has suggested, developments that would enable him to continue his work.
Against the background of the Commission's resignation, the call made by the Ombudsman for a code of good administrative practice to which citizens would have recourse is extremely topical.
Foremost among the responsible parties I referred to is the European Parliament, since the European Ombudsman is commissioned by Parliament.
One of the duties of the Committee on Petitions is to discharge that responsibility.
How can it do that if it is not adequately equipped for its work?
The Committee on Petitions has already approached the parliamentary administration on this point, although its plea did not elicit much of a response.
Every Member of this House should look at the annexes to Mr Newman's report in particular, which bring home the absurdity of the proposition that the work of the Committee on Petitions could be divided up among other committees.
I am sorry to say that I must close by asking certain bodies in this House how they feel about the rights of their constituents when they seek to diminish the status of the basic right of petition by abolishing the Committee on Petitions, or when they try to change the name of the Committee on Legal Affairs and Citizens' Rights and call it the Committee on Legal Affairs and Consumers' Rights.
The people of the Union are citizens first and foremost, then consumers, and any rights they have as consumers surely only exist by virtue of their civil rights.
Allow me, Mr President, to thank Mr Newman, not only for his instructive and authoritative report but also for the work he has done in this important committee.
I was only on that committee for a short time, but I was able to experience at first hand all those things for which my honourable colleagues have been expressing their gratitude.
Thank you, Mr Newman.
