Madam President, this is certainly the first time that the European Union has been in this situation, and I hope it will be the last.
Following the scathing report from the Committee of Wise Men, the resignation of the Commission was a necessity, but it could have come sooner.
We could have had a different outcome if the Commission had taken advantage of the stay of execution we granted it when the budget discharge was deferred.
Had that happened, we should not be in this situation today.
Parliament could also have brought this whole matter - which has been described here as both a crisis and an opportunity - to a head two months earlier if it had made full use of its powers and passed a vote of no confidence.
Secondly, it emerges clearly from the Wise Men's report that the European Parliament and its Committee on Budgetary Control acted correctly.
They exercised their powers of scrutiny.
They brought the problems to light.
And now the consequence of this is that we must initiate the action set out in the Elles report.
We must look to the future, introducing and implementing appropriate reforms.
A third point I take from the report is that the information Parliament was receiving from the Commission was inadequate; it was misleading and even fraudulent.
This will have to be investigated.
We have a right to information.
We are a controlling body, and it is up to us to determine what we need to inspect and which oral and written information we require for that purpose.
What do we do now?
We must look forward, because for us in the European Parliament, elections are looming.
But the public image of Europe is also on the line.
So although we must get to the roots of the present problem, it clearly makes no sense to indulge in a surfeit of retrospection and soul-searching.
The first thing we need is the rapid appointment of a new Commission.
I believe it has to be an interim Commission, one which will take the action that needs to be taken, so that the year 2000 will see the installation of a competent, efficient and trusted Commission.
Fourthly, the institutional gap between the administration and the Commissioners in terms of accountability must be closed as quickly as possible.
This was one of the most damning criticisms of the Commission.
I am not in favour of any further reports by the Wise Men; the real priority now is to implement with all possible haste the programme of work we have drafted, so that by the year 2000 we shall truly have eliminated all the abuses which have come to light here.
It is important to look ahead and to create more democracy.
I believe the citizens of Europe understand that we in the European Parliament have begun to grow into our role as the taxpayers' watchdog and the people's advocate.
That is the path we should continue to follow.
