Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to endorse what Mrs Krehl said.
I too consider it to be a mistake to postpone the issue of our relations with Russia and what form the strategy should take.
I believe in fact that, particularly in view of current events, it is absolutely essential that we not only maintain the line of communication with Moscow but develop it further.
It has been said several times today in the various debates that without Russia a European security structure and a flourishing Europe would be inconceivable.
It is also the case that on visits to Russia and in talks with Russian colleagues we are repeatedly asked about the European Union's strategy towards Russia.
In fact - at least this is the impression I get - this strategy has up to now been inadequate.
We have had the partnership agreement, but what should come after that and how it should be developed are questions that have so far not been given sufficient attention.
I believe these questions must be answered so that we can tackle the issue methodically and in accordance with our objectives.
When we are in Moscow our Russian partners often end up by asking whether we can imagine Russia perhaps one day even becoming a member of the European Union.
I always reply that I cannot imagine it today but that I cannot say whether I might be able to imagine it in 30, 40 or 50 years' time.
Our strategy need not go this far but I believe that at least the framework conditions for the development of this thriving cooperation must certainly be established immediately so that the Russians also know where they stand.
In addition, the work from the partnership agreement must also be developed further, of course.
Russia itself continues to have a great many serious problems.
I can only say that it is also our duty as the European Union and as a party in negotiation with them to do our best to make it easier for them to tackle and resolve many of these home-made problems.
Wherever we can lend support we should do so.
