Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by thanking our rapporteur, André Fourçans, and congratulating him on his report.
The report tells us that the main European economic indicators remain strong, that investments are achieving good returns, and that inflation and interest rates are at an all-time low.
At the same time, however, we note that previous growth forecasts are now having to be scaled down quite drastically.
We must investigate the reasons for this.
It is undeniable that the slowdown is partly due to external economic conditions.
But they cannot be the only reason.
The very fact that our trade with the regions in crisis, such as Russia, Brazil and South-East Asia, accounts for a minimal percentage of the GNP of the European Union shows that this factor is not solely responsible for the slowdown.
The real reason for our low rate of growth - and I believe there is broad consensus on this - is a lack of investment.
Some people blame the European Central Bank and claim that the base rate is too high.
That, however, is an astonishing claim, given that both short-term and long-term interest rates have already fallen to unprecedentedly low levels.
Part of the responsibility for the sluggishness of economic growth in the European Union lies with the uncertainties in the economic policies pursued by some of the larger Member States, as a result of which business confidence is sapped and investments fail to materialise.
Companies will not invest if they have no means of knowing how high their tax and national insurance bills will be at the end of the year.
This is the first problem that the economic policy of the European Union will have to address.
The main reason for weak growth and the threat to jobs lies squarely in the realm of economic policy, and not with the Central Bank.
As an institution engaged in dialogue with the Central Bank, we must not let it be used as a scapegoat for the faults of others.
Another topic that is currently high on the economic agenda is the strength of the European currency.
What determines the strength of the euro, and what matters to the people of Europe, is not the drop in the value of the euro on the world market but its internal stability.
With an average inflation rate of 0.8 % in Euroland at the present time, we have price stability.
The rate of price increase in the United States, with which we tend to compare ourselves, is more than twice as high as it is here in the European Union.
But the reason for the decline of the euro against the US dollar lies primarily in the international finance markets' lack of confidence in the economic policies of our large Member States.
In the report before us, the majority of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy expresses its support for an economic policy based on the principles of welfare capitalism and its opposition to a dilution of the stability pact.
That is the only way to win back the confidence that has been squandered and to start fostering growth and employment once again.
