Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have already had the opportunity today to explain the Commission's position in some detail.
There is therefore no need for me to repeat myself now.
I should simply like to thank very much all those who spoke in the debate for their constructive contributions and to respond briefly to three specific questions which have been asked in the meantime.
Firstly, as far as garlic is concerned, I said that we want to work on two fronts here.
We want to make use of the existing safeguard clause again, and to activate this for a further period.
In this respect, I was asked how this will be monitored.
It is quite clear that the task of monitoring falls on the Member States.
We have already alerted the Member States several times to the fact that their customs authorities, in particular, must make it known that there is a risk of garlic being imported illegally from certain countries.
The countries are also sufficiently well known.
In addition, we have introduced our own certificates to make monitoring easier.
We are aware, however, that these measures - at least in the way they have been implemented so far - are not sufficient to achieve satisfactory results.
That is precisely why we are also prepared to go a step further.
We will be tabling a proposal for a negotiating mandate so that we can negotiate a suitable mechanism for fixing quotas in the WTO.
On the second question - raised by Mr Sturdy - about the WTO, Europe's position and how it proposes to act, all I can say to you today is the following: although this Commission is only an acting Commission at the present time, I believe that it is necessary and important - and I have therefore issued instructions to this effect to the services responsible - for us to develop a negotiating strategy based on the agreements reached as part of Agenda 2000 as soon as possible, so that we will then be in a position in the second half of the year to liaise with other countries about this forthcoming WTO round.
You can safely assume that part of our strategy will be to take measures to strengthen Europe's position.
I can reassure Mrs Keppelhoff-Wiechert: the object of our proposal for an amendment is precisely no longer to include only sales on the producer's holding - when they take place on the holding - but to treat sales at weekly markets and all the other direct sales measures you mentioned in just the same way as direct sales on the producer's holding, that is to say as an exception and thus as part of the 25 % rule.
