Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, I should first like to thank Mrs Ghilardotti for her report, which we support in every respect.
I should, however, also like to thank the Commission for presenting a report here which has made it very easy for us to endorse its conclusions on this issue.
This directive constitutes a further building block in a social Europe, coming after our adoption of the European works councils and - I hope - shortly before the European Company and worker participation legislation is adopted.
However, it also constitutes a counterweight to capital in Europe.
I believe that this is very important and sensible, particularly at the present time, so that the public realise that Europe does not adopt laws in a vacuum.
I agree with Ms Oddy's assertion that of course this will not lead to national rules being abandoned.
Those Member States which believe that employee involvement gives them increased and more extensive consultation rights will obviously keep their own rules.
If you take a closer look, however, you will see that in many countries - including Germany - there are sectors in which employees are still unable to participate in decision making.
The specific issue which I should like to address here is the size of the company.
There is inadequate provision for small and medium-sized enterprises, including in Germany.
That is why we would have preferred the company size threshold to have been set at 20 employees.
I am mentioning this here quite specifically and hope that the PPE Group can, after all, decide to go along with our proposals.
Similarly, I also hope that you, Mr Menrad, and the other members of the PPE Group will vote against excluding certain media companies and charitable organisations from the information and consultation obligations in connection with the provision on the protection of certain interests, and will endorse our proposal.
The view expressed by one media company in a letter to us - that the human rights and fundamental rights associated with the freedom of the press will be violated if we do not vote for it - is one which I find absolutely absurd.
In my opinion, there is a pressing need for there also to be worker involvement in media companies.
I do not share Mrs Ghilardotti's misgivings about UNICE.
I think that perhaps it is even a good thing that UNICE declined to negotiate.
As a result, we have a reasonable proposal from the Commission which, particularly in terms of sanctions, contains much more far-reaching measures which we all support and which would certainly not have emerged from a social dialogue.
Finally, I should like to express my hope and voice my request that the German Presidency and the Council as a whole should support this important building block in a social Europe as soon as possible.
