Mr President, Commissioner, it has certainly emerged from the statements on behalf of the various groups that this is not a purely technical agreement but that there are many political aspects involved, a point which the rapporteur made perfectly clear too.
It is true that there have been voices in all the groups, including the group to which I belong, which have spoken against the conclusion of such an agreement at the present time.
However, it is my experience of foreign policy more than anything else which makes me think that the reasons against concluding the agreement are far more tenuous than those in favour of concluding it.
Whenever anyone says that we need a few good cards in our hand to engage in diplomacy and that such agreements should be used for that purpose, I can certainly endorse that argument.
But if we in the European Union want to make our voice heard more clearly in Israel, which we do, and if we want to have more influence on the decisions taken by the State of Israel, we have no option but to approve this agreement.
We would forfeit any credibility as a negotiating partner and any possibility of bringing our influence to bear in Israel if we did not approve this agreement now.
By so doing, we shall not be endorsing the current government.
The choice of government is a matter for the people of Israel.
They will decide who should be prime minister and they will no doubt decide on the composition of the Knesset.
The agreement will scarcely influence their decision.
The present government could perhaps use our rejection of the agreement to illustrate how ill-disposed and hostile Europe is to Israel at heart, which is not the case at all.
The only reason for our heavy criticism of the present government is that it has done nothing to promote peace and has failed to do many things that it could have done.
We do not know who the next prime minister will be; nobody knows that today.
Above all, we do not know what the composition of the Knesset will be.
That is why a postponement will achieve very little.
The same situation, or even a far more difficult one, may result from the elections.
Things cannot become all that much easier, given the abundance of parties and candidates.
That is why it surely makes good sense to decide now.
To my Palestinian friends - and I do not hesitate to say that I have very many of them and am in close contact with them - I should like to say here and now that, precisely because we are developing ideas in Israel, with Israel and for Israel, because we are establishing cooperative mechanisms that can help to break the deadlock on the peace issue, we in Parliament should, and indeed must, decide to ratify this agreement in order to maintain the common ground that can underlie and justify our continuing dialogue with Israel.
For that reason, the Palestinian people have a special interest in our approval of this agreement, which I, particularly as someone involved in foreign policy, can certainly commend to the House.
