Mr President, first of all, I believe we have to thank Mr van Dam for stepping into the breach here and taking on the thankless task of continuing this report.
Unfortunately, I believe - and I am not the first to say this - that we have the classic case here in which a principle that we welcome and support, namely combined transport, in other words the effort to shift traffic away from the roads and onto the railways and waterways, has been dealt a severe blow by a single inappropriate measure.
That was the criticism last time and, sad to say, nothing has changed.
I do not think it makes any sense to create a rule which virtually makes every ban on Sunday and night haulage negotiable.
Nor does it make any more sense to allow a 44-tonne weight limit without any other restrictions at all.
We have criticised this several times.
We rejected it here in Parliament.
The Council, for its part, did not take up Parliament's proposal on the inclusion of tax incentives to promote combined transport.
The fact is that we rejected this on the last occasion.
The Commission has had the opportunity to make changes, as Mr van Dam rightly said, because it is after all the initiator of the legislative process and can revise its own proposals.
We in Parliament made our position perfectly clear.
We said we rejected this blanket solution and asked the Commission to come back with concrete proposals involving tighter rules.
And I have to say to the Commissioner, even if he is not here at the moment, that sending a letter to the committee is not a proposal.
It is not enough!
I shall make no bones about this: a letter does not suffice as notice of intent.
That is why we await a more concrete set of proposals from the Commission.
I believe Parliament is disposed to support the principle of combined transport.
But if no proposals are forthcoming, we can do nothing.
For that reason, we can only endorse the concluding words of the report: '... rejects the Commission proposal and calls on the Commission to withdraw its proposal'.
That is the position.
There is nothing else we can do at the present time.
The Commission may be slightly incapacitated because of the current situation, but we hope that it will be able, as soon as possible after the start of the next legislative term, to present some reasonable proposals that we can discuss.
That would enable us to see this business through quite quickly, and there will be no need for us to make full use of our speaking time, because this issue practically generates its own momentum.
