Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I wish to draw your attention to one aspect of these directives and of this report by the Commission.
Parliament, through the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy, has called for a marked increase in the thresholds, and I believe, Commissioner, that the Commission ought to display considerably more courage in this matter than it has done in the past.
The thresholds that apply today are far too low in many areas.
In particular, experience has shown that, with cross-border transactions accounting for less than 3 % of public procurement, the whole bureaucratic fuss, if I may say so, is a waste of time, because the thresholds are so low that no genuine competition takes place at all.
That is why our amendment provides for a marked increase in the thresholds, amounting to an average rise of 100 %.
It is a proposal that we ask you to incorporate into the next amendment of the directives, and we would urge you not to wait until something happens on the international front, but to ensure that Europe takes the lead in increasing these thresholds.
There is no point at all in insisting that all procurement contracts are put out to tender if the procedure is insufficiently transparent, small and medium-sized businesses do not bid, and these thresholds are ultimately devoid of impact on the competitive structure in Europe.
That is why we ask you, Commissioner, not only to improve the transparency of the public procurement system, but also to take the initiative now in preparation for the next round of international negotiations in the GATT framework in the year 2000 by substantially increasing the thresholds, not only for services but also for public works contracts.
I believe that this, along with the exemption of telecommunications from the utilities directive, will signal Europe's future intentions with regard to the development of public procurement.
If additional transparency can also be achieved through the use of modern media, such as the Internet, I believe all these things will put us on the right path, and I am convinced that the Commission can also take action to that end with the support of Parliament.
