Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, with the implementation of the Amsterdam Treaty, the European Parliament has new powers of determining relations between the institutions.
If we summarise the provisions of the Amsterdam Treaty in the usual terms, it must be said that the European Council only has the right to propose the President of the Commission and that the European Parliament has the real right to elect him.
This adds a new dimension to their relations and so we will also have to agree the procedures that need to be introduced in the course of this summer and autumn.
The political groups must grasp this new opportunity from the outset, which is why both the Committee on Institutional Affairs and I myself consider it right that in the long term we should adopt Jacques Delors's proposal that the major political movements should nominate their candidates for the office of President of the Commission during the European election campaign.
I believe that is extremely important because it personalises European policy and can thus also stimulate greater interest among the people in the European idea.
But I believe it is also important for the European Council and the governments to accept the results of the European elections as a determining factor in the nominations.
That is why we think it is wrong for the presidency to propose nominating the Council's candidate nine days before the European elections, for the European Council cannot know the outcome of those elections at that point.
So it could make a proposal that was not compatible with the outcome of those elections.
A special summit must therefore be held after the European elections, so that, in line with the parliamentary majorities that emerge from them, a candidate can be proposed who is likely to win Parliament's confidence.
Here we will probably have to follow a new direction if we are to make the necessary headway.
So we will attach great importance to negotiations with the European Council's nominee, so that we can vote on the basis of the nominated president's undertakings with regard to his political guidelines, the quality of interinstitutional relations, but also of the criteria which he and the governments will follow in the nomination of the other members of the Commission.
Here, too, the nominated President of the Commission elected by the European Parliament has new opportunities, for the Member State governments can only submit a proposal in common accord with him.
That means this President of the Commission is also responsible for meeting another demand made by the European Parliament, namely to ensure a reasonable balance between the sexes and between the main political tendencies in the European Union within that Commission, so that it can act impartially.
In our view that is also a real criterion for the conduct of the hearings of nominees.
In that respect a number of improvements are still needed after the experiences of 1995.
It is also extremely important to make it clear that the Commission will become more independent because any conflicts of interest will be prevented by the declaration of external interests, by the obligation to refrain from taking part in certain discussions and other aspects addressed in the report.
I believe that will help us avoid some of those situations that are currently the subject of criticism.
This also offers new opportunities to hold Commissioners more politically accountable - as we tend to do in the case of national ministers - so as to make provision for their compulsory retirement and enable the President of the Commission to withdraw the portfolios of Commissioners who have failed politically, as laid down in the Treaty of Amsterdam.
Much of what we are discussing at present would not even have arisen if such instruments existed, because there would be more means of resolving the situation.
If possible, the President of the Commission should submit his proposals even before the summer break, after the European elections, and they should be voted on as early as possible so that the procedures for appointing the individual Commissioners can be initiated.
I believe that on the basis of the timetable submitted to us we could find a solution that the Council and the future Commission could also come to support, so that in this way we can create the basis for new relations between the institutions, which would bring a new dimension to Europe.
