Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Commissioner, let us see what you have to say to Mr Sarlis's and Mr Swoboda's proposals today.
Compared with my own objectives, I do not think the demands made by either of them are tough enough.
A year ago we called for a gradual liberalisation that took account of social framework conditions but was sufficiently clear-cut.
Nevertheless I endorse both reports.
They are a balanced mix of Parliament's views and I hope, Commissioner, that you will prove a rather more generous benefactor this time and accept the amendments.
Let me address a few points.
In my view we cannot accept that the railways should decline as a result of your deliberate policy of not applying European legislation.
Directive 91/440/EEC - separation of infrastructure management and operation of trains - has been applicable by all Member States since 1986.
Some simply refuse to do so.
I hope that at least you, Commissioner, are in favour of the call in both reports for progress to be made towards this objective in the next two years.
If need be, we will have to initiate proceedings here.
For only if we separate the two can other railway undertakings also effectively use the railways; we want to see effective use made of the railway network, we do not want some countries to seal themselves off and not let anyone through.
That is why we need a clear separation between infrastructure management and operation services; we need clear rights of access, as both colleagues called for, we need wider rights of access, lenient rights of access, but definite improvements; and thirdly, we need uniform rules on transport charges.
Mr Swoboda, in your place I would have preferred not to bring up the idea of marginal costs.
After the hearing in committee, we should not get involved in this.
For the rest, I agree with you that if we look first at road costs - building and maintenance costs - we would say that external costs may only be increased if the other transport modes are required to bear similar costs.
In the same way I would like to see the railways given greater opportunity to compete with the other transport modes on the basis of sensible and reasonable transport charges.
But I also think we must then say that regardless of how high or low we set the transport charges, they must be charged in all the Member States.
We cannot have some Member States saying that temporarily, for the next two years, we will not impose any transport charges, at least not on certain routes.
In this respect it is then up to the Commission to ensure equality under the law.
In this difficult battle between Council, Parliament and Commission to open up the railways so that they will become client-oriented and effective, we are on your side, Commissioner, and I hope you are on our side!
