Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the subject of my report is the transposition of EU competition law by the Republic of Lithuania under Article 64 of the 1995 Europe Agreement between the EU and Lithuania.
I would recommend that the European Parliament approve the Community's position on this in the EU-Lithuania Association Council.
The subject we are concerned with here may appear rather technical, but in the context of pre-accession relations with Lithuania it is of extreme political importance.
After all, competition policy is an important instrument for ensuring free trade and for turning the Lithuanian economy into a viable social market economy that can hold its own in the single market.
Of course the introduction of the complex EU competition rules represents an enormous challenge for all applicant countries.
After all, in the transition to a market economy, they must first develop their own national competition law.
I would urge the Commission to take greater account of that when it evaluates the extent to which these countries have adjusted.
So we will still need to show some flexibility in the coming years in regard to the implementation of EU competition rules.
Setting conditions that are too rigid is more likely to prove counter-productive.
In particular, we must always look at the social implications of adjustment if we want to ensure that the citizens of the applicant state give their broad support to democracy and the social market economy.
That is very important to the stability of Europe as a whole.
Many Lithuanian economic sectors will not be able to do without state aid for some time at least, in the course of adjusting to the EU acquis in competition law.
In view of the aggressive market strategies of western competitors, we should not judge individual defence mechanisms and supports in certain sectors too harshly.
But, all in all, Lithuania has made substantial progress in approximating its laws to EU legislation and is endeavouring to establish the requisite implementing structures.
The Lithuanian Government submitted new draft competition legislation in 1998.
The Lithuanian Parliament passed much of it last December.
The competition rules for undertakings are generally consistent with Community law and in 1997 the Lithuanian Government also submitted a decision on monitoring state aid.
Meanwhile Lithuania has endeavoured to facilitate free trade with the EU, for instance by ambitious tariff reductions.
That is to be welcomed.
My conclusions are as follows: we should not pursue too rigorous a policy of approximation to Western competition rules, for it could be damaging to the long-term process of transformation to ask too much.
Secondly, Lithuania evidently needs greater support for the training and further training of the officials of its State Competition and Consumer Protection Office.
Furthermore, a targeted information policy must be pursued to promote acceptance in the private economic sector of the new competition rules and economic liberalisation and restructuring measures.
Account must also be taken of social and environmental aspects during the adjustment process.
Let me conclude with two points.
Since the Lithuanian economy, like for that matter all the Central and Eastern European economies, is undercapitalised, the EU should consider providing direct capital aid for setting up and modernising undertakings, over and above the existing structural aid measures, where appropriate through the European Investment Bank or the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development.
Secondly, it is certainly regrettable that Lithuania is not at present among the first wave of applicants.
While appreciating all the obstacles that still remain, I believe that the accession negotiations between the EU and Lithuania should begin before the scheduled date, which is not until the end of 1999, if possible even during the German Presidency of the Council, for that is the only way to sustain the optimism and willingness to adjust that have developed in that country.
