Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, following Mr Titley's very impassioned plea there should really be no need to discuss this report further.
Let me begin by thanking Gary Titley for his report in which he tirelessly addressed and discussed a subject that is most important in both economic and defence and security policy terms.
Economically, we should have no illusions.
The United States of America, which of course always stands up for totally free trade, for totally free economic development, shows enormous interest and activity when it is a question of defending its own industry and securing its position on the world market.
That is particularly true of anything to do with the defence industry, the aircraft industry and so forth.
So unless it is to be naive, Europe must respond to this kind of competition, but without creating new monopoly positions.
But what we have here is in fact global competition, to which we must of course respond.
Secondly, in regard to defence policy, we are currently talking - and for the time being we are merely talking but I hope we will soon be taking concrete steps - about a European defence identity.
We are talking about Europe having to assume certain tasks without always stealing a glance at NATO or in particular the United States to check what they are going to do.
This kind of European defence identity cannot imply full self-sufficiency, yet a minimum of independence for our arms industry, coupled, of course, with cooperation with the Americans, is absolutely necessary.
I hope Gary Titley is right in saying that what is currently happening between British and American undertakings does not prevent the corresponding decisions and mergers from taking place at European level.
On the contrary, perhaps this will even create a pressure for rapidly taking the necessary decisions now to build up a European industry, not against the Americans but as strong partners.
Lastly, let me point out something that is also contained in the report although it is not its main subject.
We in the European Parliament should also talk about disarmament when we talk about defence.
The Social Democrats do not believe that all these endeavours to create a European security identity, a European defence industry, conflict with further steps towards disarmament.
That is still on the agenda!
The safest world is a world in which disarmament is writ large, which is why we should not play one aspect off against the other.
Sadly this is a world in which arms are necessary, in which we have to continue to modernise.
We should do so at European level while at the same time fighting for global, world disarmament.
