Mr President, there is a proverb from the Ladin hills, not far from your own home area, that goes Qui va prudan', va sicur' e lontan' .
It means, he who goes cautiously, goes safely and goes far.
I believe it is a proverb that the rapporteur, whom I thank for his work, has borne in mind in his proposals.
He has made the Commission proposal more precise, careful and safer in a number of areas.
I believe it is indeed necessary to take that approach in a field in which we do not yet have the necessary experience.
I do not have the time to go into every individual point so I will only comment on a few that I regard as most important.
I think it is most important that the precautionary principle is specifically enshrined.
In my opinion, now that it is enshrined in the Amsterdam Treaty, we should do so in all legislation.
I also consider it most important that Parliament's proposal makes greater provision for information, for involvement of the public.
It is also most important to ensure that genetically modified products and organisms can be identified, to make it easier to recover them and also to assess the risk.
Risk evaluation of long-term effects has been enshrined, as has the possibility for Member States to set additional requirements for environmentally sensitive areas.
I also consider it most important - and here I would second the rapporteur's question to the Commissioner - for consent to be limited rather than unlimited.
There are other areas of environmental legislation where we find that unlimited authorisation has been granted for plant and then at a time when we already have quite different legislation, that plant can go on operating under the old limit values for a long time and does not have to adapt to new technology.
So I believe it is necessary to set limits.
But I would also have liked to ask the Commissioner whether seven years is the right period, or whether there could not be a different, more appropriate number.
For it is important when we inform the people to be able to tell them why a particular decision was taken rather than another one.
I hope Members will endorse the Environment Committee's proposals at the vote tomorrow, so that we can present the Council with a proposal that takes account of what this Parliament stands for, namely concern for the citizens of Europe.
