Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have not always been able to take it for granted that Parliament and the Commission would regard rules on working time as part of protecting health and safety in all sectors.
Thanks to the two reports we are debating today, this does at least seem to be clear now.
I should therefore like to thank both the Commission and the two rapporteurs for their work, and in addition express my hope that the same opinion will prevail in the Council.
I am speaking here on behalf of the PPE members of the Committee on Transport when I say that it is good that road transport - a sector with over five million employees - is not going to be excluded any longer; in my view, it is simply obvious that this should be the case.
In road transport in particular, there is a direct correlation between working time and the numbers of accidents.
I should like to stress once again how important it is for this to be implemented quickly, but also for compliance with all the measures to be enforced in all the Member States.
Even though there is strong competition in the transport sector, it should not come at the expense of health or public safety.
The two directives are being dealt with and adopted in parallel.
This shows that we intend to be consistent.
It seems to me that it is important - as the rapporteurs also emphasise - for these directives to establish minimum requirements, and thus for certain countries which might have stricter criteria on safety not to interpret the directives as a licence to dismantle them.
Although these directives certainly resolve the working time problem to a large extent, let me nevertheless draw your attention to a particular problem, that of local transport.
Local transport covers the carriage of passengers by both road and rail.
To my mind, given that many countries already have appropriate rules in this sector, the derogation in Article 7 of Directive 98/319 ought to be maintained, or this sector should quite simply be incorporated into the 1993 directive.
I believe that this is what both the Commission and the employees and employers in this sector would wish to see.
