Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you may not be surprised to learn that I cannot see this whole situation in such a rosy glow as it has been presented here, especially by Sir Leon Brittan.
We know each other only too well, of course, from the Committee on External Economic Relations.
The few good points to be found in the KEDO programme, namely the desire to arrive at an alternative form of energy and to make a contribution to North Korea in terms of promoting reconciliation or improving people's living standards, are swamped by a whole series of points which Mr Tindemans presents in detail in his explanatory statement.
Mr Ford has also told us what is really happening over there in North Korea.
I cannot help wondering whether we should not be trying to solve quite different problems there at the present time, rather than helping to build two light water reactors.
How is North Korea ever supposed to repay the debts it is incurring in this domain?
If we reply to this question by claiming that we need to have a foot in the door, economically speaking, and to profit from projects and contracts, then I have to say that this is surely a very mercenary approach; to put it more bluntly, we have taken a policy that is supposed to provide a country with a helping hand in its pursuit of development and have succeeded once again in turning such a policy on its head in spectacular fashion.
We are building a new white elephant under the guise of development aid.
That is surely not designed to provide long-term assistance.
Reactors are to be sited somewhere in the landscape, and there is not even any certainty as to how the energy is to be transmitted from there.
And what about the disposal of the nuclear waste?
That, of course, is another question you have yet to resolve.
You may find that amusing, Sir Leon.
But as an aid worker who has worked long enough in the shanty towns of this world, I have to tell you that this sort of solution is certainly not one that springs to my mind.
Let me conclude by stating the obvious, namely that the way Parliament has been treated throughout the period of the KEDO negotiations has been anything but brilliant.
If you are now presenting us with a letter, Sir Leon, the content of which I can certainly endorse - well, I have to say that it may have come late, but at least it has come.
However, we are being given sight of this at a very, very late stage in the proceedings.
I know that you are always keen to inform Parliament and that you do that and come to our meetings.
But in terms of substance - and let me make this very clear - we are usually sold short, because our questions often receive extremely flowery answers.
That is something we very often experience in the Committee on External Economic Relations.
Be that as it may, I have some different ideas of what would help these countries.
For that reason, even though much of the content of the report may be right and proper, I regret that we shall have to vote against it.
