Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, coming at a time when Europe faces difficult decisions concerning its future development, the resignation of the European Commission is a severe test of our resilience, but it is also perhaps a salutary shock.
First of all, our thanks and recognition are due to the European Parliament.
It has vigorously exercised its parliamentary right of scrutiny, which is only right and fitting.
Without the dedicated work of many of your staff from all the political groups, the beneficial process that is now taking place would never have happened.
The people of our Member States rightly expect the institutions of the European Union to use the revenue from their taxes in a responsible manner.
But let me add in the clearest possible terms that the members of the Commission and their staff also merit our respect and thanks.
They deserve respect for having accepted political responsibility for the circumstances described in the independent experts' report; and the Commission and its staff also deserve our thanks for the work they have done over the last few years to deepen and broaden European union.
Strategic decisions were taken during their tenure, such as the introduction of the euro and the start of the present enlargement process, decisions in which the Commission played a vital part.
Not least among its achievements is Agenda 2000.
The Commission must complete the work it has started on this initiative while it is still in office, which I hope will be done within a few days.
Europe, the presidency and all of us here must be able to depend on a fully operational Commission in the coming days.
The resignation of the Commission has highlighted the slow but steady development of a European public opinion and the strengthening of parliamentary democracy as a component of the Union.
It is my belief that the principles of democracy have stood this test, and I welcome that from the bottom of my heart.
Applause
But the deplorable errors that have now been uncovered must not bring the entire institution into disrepute.
Since the European Communities were founded more than 40 years ago, the Commission has been the key institution in the unceasing advance of European integration.
It has to represent the common good of all 15 Member States in an impartial way and must also continue to be the driving force and initiator of new developments in the realm of European policy.
If we wish to achieve the aims of the Union - and there is surely no doubt of that - we cannot afford to discredit an institution which is unparalleled in the history of our nation states.
The European Union needs a strong Commission with authority to act, and needs it quickly.
What is now required is the total radical reform that President Santer has already initiated.
That too must be explicitly recognised.
The MAP 2000 programme for better organisation and personnel management and the SEM 2000 programme, designed to improve financial control, are steps in the right direction.
The Commission's internal inspectorate, UCLAF, must become an independent control body.
Where do we go from here?
It is absolutely crucial that the European Union should demonstrate its effectiveness at this difficult juncture.
As far as the special meeting of the European Council in Berlin is concerned, this means that the German Presidency must do everything it can to broker a political deal on the Agenda 2000 package.
Success in Berlin is now more crucial than ever.
Applause
Let me add that this will be one of the most decisive weeks Europe has faced; not only do we have the Berlin meeting this week, but the crisis in Kosovo has regrettably come to a head.
And we have had the resignation of the Commission.
The accumulation of these three crises also shows how much we in Europe - our nations, the Commission, the European Council and Parliament - have to do at the present time; we have a huge burden of responsibility to shoulder if we are to overcome these crises together.
The results of the round of visits undertaken by Federal Chancellor Gerhard Schröder, as well as yesterday's discussions in the General Affairs Council, have convinced us that all the Member States ardently desire success in Berlin.
The resignation of the Commission is neither a political nor a legal obstacle to the achievement of the success to which we all aspire.
In accordance with the Treaty, the Commission will continue to perform its official duties until it is replaced by a new Commission.
That arrangement is an essential means of ensuring a stable transition.
I am confident that Berlin will be a success and that Agenda 2000 can be formally adopted before the end of the present legislative term.
The way has been prepared by regular contacts between the European Parliament, the presidency and the Commission for progress briefings.
The European Council in Berlin will also have to deal, of course, with the consequences of the Commission's resignation.
Without wishing to anticipate the discussions of the Heads of State and Government, which will certainly not be easy, I think we can already say that the decisions which need to be taken to appoint a new Commission will have to be reached in a difficult political and legal context, at a time of transition from the situation created by Maastricht to the new Amsterdam regime with the accompanying constitutional issues, coupled with the fact hat we are dealing with all these matters for the first time.
The Council presidency has a great deal of sympathy with your President's proposal, which is supported by all political groups, that the procedure to nominate a candidate for the office of President of the European Commission should be initiated as soon as possible.
According to that proposal, the European Parliament could approve the nomination of a new Commission President at its part-session in April, and then in May - which is a very ambitious target - it could approve the nomination of the new Commission.
Applause
This in turn raises another specific problem, which concerns the length of time for which the Commission is to be appointed, given the fact that its appointment coincides with the transition from the present Parliament to the one which will be elected this summer and which, I am informed, is due to convene on 20 July.
The sovereign decision of the new Parliament cannot and must not be pre-empted.
The decisions that have to be taken are of enormous political importance.
Let me assure you that it is the concern of the Council presidency to arrive at a speedy and constructive solution in close coordination with the European Parliament, the Member States of the European Union and the Commission which is in office.
In Berlin, the Heads of State and Government will deal in detail with the question of the next steps to be taken and - if possible - may even move on to talk about specific individuals.
The presidency will try to secure a political agreement among the Heads of State and Government on a candidate who could be nominated in time for your part-session in April.
Besides requiring us to resolve the burning issues of the moment, the latest developments also give us cause to devote more thought to the future working methods and composition of the bodies of the Union in general, especially in the light of the forthcoming enlargement of the European Union.
The protocol on the bodies of the Union which is annexed to the Treaty of Amsterdam, as well as the relevant conclusions of the European Council summits in Luxembourg, Cardiff and Vienna, have established the framework for our reflections.
In preparation for the Cologne meeting of the European Council, the presidency will shortly present proposals as to how and when we should address the institutional questions which were not settled by the Treaty of Amsterdam and which have to be resolved before enlargement takes place.
However, we may have to go even further than that.
After all, it is absolutely essential to keep developing the democratic control that this House has exercised so efficiently.
Public confidence in the institution must be fully restored, and that is precisely what the present crisis offers us the opportunity to do.
The developments we have witnessed must never be repeated, otherwise the ideal of European unification would be seriously prejudiced.
In adopting reforms, we must also consider the relative power of the various bodies and their role within the constitutional fabric of the Union.
The Commission, with its exclusive power to initiate legislation, is an important instrument of European lawmaking, for which the Council together with this House are ultimately responsible.
The Commission is also empowered by the Treaty and secondary legislation to perform executive functions.
Greater care must be taken in the forthcoming reform process to ensure that the Commission is not constantly being entrusted with new tasks without being given the material, human and financial resources it requires in order to perform them.
Applause
I hope that all of us will also make this clear to our populations at home during the European election campaign, because in this domain - at least in Germany - I encounter a certain ambivalence between, on the one hand, a proclaimed willingness to transfer more funds to Europe, which is essential for the European Union to go on assuming new responsibilities if it cannot raise its own revenue, and, on the other hand, the domestic discussion which then ensues.
I believe that if we are serious about European unification, the conclusion to be drawn from this crisis is that the new Commission must be given the funds it needs to guarantee the orderly management of our affairs.
Applause
Every future reform must focus on strengthening the democratic control and legitimation of the executive and legislative branches of the European tier of government.
That is not only dictated by the constitutional traditions of all the Member States; it is also an absolute prerequisite for a viable Union.
The present crisis also presents an opportunity to accelerate the reform process and, or so I hope, to make the reforms more incisive than was initially envisaged.
We must, and indeed we can, seize that opportunity together for the sake of Europe.
Applause
