Mr President, the two very thorough - and fortunately also well coordinated - reports by Mr Galeote Quecedo and Mr Torres Couto are an attempt by the European Parliament to adopt a position on the measures which are so important to us and which are intended, within the framework of Community policy, to contribute to developing and consolidating democracy and the rule of law and to respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms.
When this was first discussed, we said that we would have liked the measures on developing countries and third countries to be adopted on the same basis, so that the same article of the Treaty could be used as a legal base.
But the Council insisted on different procedures: Article 130w for developing countries and Article 235 for third countries.
Of course, this has more to do with the balance of power between the institutions than with a rational consideration of legal bases.
This is comparable with the way in which portfolios are distributed in the Commission, which is illogical as far as human rights are concerned and is done instead on the basis of Commissioners' responsibilities.
The cooperation which is urgently needed in these areas in both cases ultimately needs a solid foundation, however.
That is why we also support this.
This policy is becoming an increasingly significant part of Community policies - that has already been said here - and needs legal protection, as we know of course from the unfortunate experiences of recent months.
However, promoting the rule of law, democracy, human rights and fundamental freedoms is a need which we have already made a prerequisite - or wish to do so in the future - in the democracy programmes under PHARE, TACIS and MEDA, and also when granting financial aid to developing countries.
We have introduced this into many cooperation agreements in the form of so-called democracy and human rights clauses.
Our definition of human rights has not been dictated by Europe, but is based on conventions and definitions as they appear in texts ranging from the UN Charter to European Conventions.
It is therefore not something which we have invented.
It has helped us to have a period of stability and peace in the European Union, and this is what we want other countries to have as well.
We also wish to have a solid basis for cooperation with the NGOs.
The many examples mentioned in the report are precisely what we want to support.
We therefore very much support the proposal to set up an advisory committee.
We have already requested this in Parliament on more than one occasion.
Certainly, there must be a clear division of responsibilities, but of course advising does not necessarily mean deciding.
The Council has rejected a whole series of amendments.
The European Parliament should insist on these amendments if it wishes to strengthen its own role in the future.
It is and remains the spokesperson for its own message and for the people who are hoping to see this become a dimension of their own countries' policies.
I am pleased to note once again that our views are so similar where human rights, the principles of democracy and the rule of law are concerned.
