Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the rapporteur, Mrs Hautala, and I have been very firm in our dealings with the Council about the Auto-Oil programme.
We also went into battle over the reduction in the sulphur content of fuels and really thought that the fight was going to go to a second round.
But it has now turned out that this is not really necessary.
Which is just as well, as the problem of acidification is of course vital for the northern Member States, and we are therefore delighted that the Council has taken almost all Parliament's requests on board, which means that we finally have a really good piece of legislation.
I cannot help thinking of the words of a German pop song called 'Miracles keep on happening'.
I must say that in this case the Council has shown that this is true, and that it can sometimes simply accept the proposals made to it by Parliament - well-founded proposals of course.
I would like to highlight one particular point, and that is the inclusion of bunker oil for ships and the need to make progress with negotiations at international level to ensure that the fuel used in ships is as low in sulphur as possible.
I say this because potential emissions from this source are now far greater than from power stations on dry land.
Of course there is also a little link with the Auto-Oil programme here: if you demand that oil with a relatively low sulphur content should be supplied for use in cars, it is quite conceivable that the refining industry will hit upon the idea of offering the rest, the mucky stuff, to ships.
In the interests of consistency, identical or at least similar legislation must also apply in this field.
That is why I particularly welcome the inclusion of bunker oil in the directive and I recommend that we should press for regulation at international level.
I have just one very small request relating to Amendment No 1, which is about the sulphur content of heavy oils.
This is the only thing it will take to make me perfectly happy with this legislation.
In this case the Environment Committee proposes bringing forward the relevant date by two years, from 2003 to 2001.
This is not an unprincipled suggestion, but really just a reinstatement of your own proposal, Commissioner.
I would therefore urge you to accept at least this one amendment and make my day!
