Mr President, unfortunately, the principle that if you wait for long enough the outcome will be good does not always apply in European social policy.
Many important decisions certainly take a long time, but then are not as good as we social affairs politicians would like them to be.
The question of informing, consulting and participating has been under discussion at European level since 1974.
All the Commission initiatives were defeated in the Council, because until the Maastricht Treaty came into force, unanimity was necessary for them to be adopted.
The framework directive on the working environment was the first to include the field of information and consultation.
Then in 1994, it became possible to adopt the EWC.
Nevertheless, constant change and increased cross-border activities mean that there is an urgent need for action to be taken on this issue.
As a result of limitations and shortcomings, workers have not been given sufficient information and opportunities to be consulted on issues that really matter for undertakings.
Admittedly - and this is true - legislation does exist at national level.
Unfortunately, this is increasingly ineffective in cases involving cross-border activities.
That is why a minimum social standard is absolutely essential in this case too.
This is nothing more than that.
In this way, subsidiarity is fully guaranteed.
After lengthy discussions in the committee, we agreed on the threshold of 50 employees.
In smaller companies, business developments are clearer and information harder to conceal.
The protection of certain interest groups has remained an open question.
The PPE Group supports it here as it did in the case of the EWC, and we are still hoping for the PSE Group's agreement.
However, we all agree that the minimum requirements must be adhered to, as must be the case for all minimum social standards.
The right to have expert support must definitely be guaranteed, in the context of subsidiarity, because without it workers could be taken for a ride.
After 25 years, I am looking forward to this directive for the benefit of workers finally being adopted.
The idea behind this directive is also that European companies are different from American and Japanese ones, and work best if a consensus is achieved between the companies and their employees by means of information and consultation.
