Mr President, the proposals before the House on closer police cooperation in Europe are good ones.
That applies, firstly, to the idea that when the Council group on police cooperation meets, those who actually do the work must also be involved, namely the police officers.
Secondly, I agree with the proposal that the police should carry out operations on recognised routes.
This approach has already been tested successfully in the cooperation between the Schengen states.
It works.
The experience that has been collected - I have spoken to a police officer who is organising something of the kind - justifies introducing this as an instrument of police cooperation in the European Union.
Sir Jack has tabled amendments that we welcome.
We also do so because we know these proposals are based on talks with experts.
In particular, we endorse all his proposals concerning the joint action on police cooperation and agree with him that it should cover not just the police but also those working in customs and other relevant authorities.
Mr President, we have a problem with the German translation.
The phrase 'law enforcement agency', whose meaning is clear in English, has been translated into German as 'Vollstreckungsteam ' and 'Vollstreckungseinrichtung '.
They mean something quite different in German.
In German, Vollstreckung relates to the execution of death sentences or orders to pay.
It means something quite different.
So we have tabled an amendment to rectify this.
I fear we have a similar problem with Sir Jack's proposal about operations on routes.
The English phrase is 'the best and most sophisticated intelligence'.
All I can say is that he is right.
This was translated into German as 'die besten nachrichtendienstlichen Instrumente '.
In German that means including the secret services.
There are Member States, including mine, in which the secret service is strictly separate from the police.
So we emphasise that the English version is the authoritative one.
Then we can endorse the proposals.
I offer the remaining seconds of my speaking time to any one of the speakers to follow!
