Madam President, Mr Stockmann sounded rather resigned when he said that the issue of energy efficiency is not exactly centre-stage in political debate at present.
However, I believe that energy efficiency is very much uppermost in the minds of people who are concerned about saving money.
I have many contacts and discussions with industrial leaders who say that energy efficiency - and this applies particularly to the basic goods sector - makes it possible to use less energy, and to cascade energy, that is to use it two or three times.
This does not just mean saving a great deal of money, but also making technological advances which ultimately mean that we develop new methods and that, as Mrs Bloch von Blottnitz said, we remain competitive on the world market and can create new jobs in new industries.
We have discussed the promotion of renewables in Parliament at length and in great detail, and I think that there is little new that I can add.
We need to invest in renewables if we want to achieve the Kyoto objectives to which the EU has committed itself.
I also expect, Commissioner, that during accession negotiations you will pursue a strategy of increased use of renewable energy sources, because the other countries have signed up to the European Union's Kyoto objectives and the first six applicants, which will already be Member States at the relevant point in time, will have to comply with these objectives in exactly the same way.
In addition to these reports, on which I congratulate the respective rapporteurs, we will also have to make further efforts.
Mr Linkohr has already mentioned that we are waiting for a proposal from the Commission on how renewables can be promoted now that the directive on feeding in renewables, which Mr Linkohr himself proposed, has failed to find majority support in Parliament.
We need a proposal along these lines because it is necessary, when bringing renewables onto the market, to create a certain buffer, and to offer some support until they become commercially viable.
We need to start by discussing energy taxation again, because the present situation is that the costs associated with energy production - and above all electricity generation at power stations with high emission levels - are spread equally, and not borne by those whose actions give rise to these costs.
This cannot be allowed to continue if we wish to observe the polluter pays principle.
I hope that in future the sun will play a greater role in determining where our energy comes from than it does today.
