Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot go into detail on all the issues that concern us in every debate on Kosovo.
We have been discussing Kosovo constantly in this House since 1989.
Unlike all the governments, we in this Parliament correctly assessed the explosive nature of the Kosovo conflict from the beginning.
Now we are having to use military means to solve the problem.
What annoys me about the whole story is that we are only now talking about economic sanctions and possibly implementing them.
Surely it is not possible that 15 states could reach agreement on military means before agreeing on sanctions affecting the economy.
I find this truly regrettable.
Of course it is also very difficult for our citizens to understand why, with all our military efforts, we have not been able to stop the expulsions carried out by Milosevic.
It is also regrettable that we too, with our bombing, are killing people in this war.
Yet we in the European People's Party take the view that NATO must undertake further military attacks in order to make the aggressor give way.
Time will tell whether this will succeed.
We welcome all diplomatic measures attempting, alongside the bombing, to bring about a political solution.
We welcome the fact that Russia is coming on board.
We welcome all UN measures and we call upon the President-in-Office, following our experiences in Bosnia and in Kosovo, to take steps to finally update the 1949 UN Charter in line with current circumstances.
Unfortunately, thousands of new refugees are being driven into neighbouring countries every day by Milosevic's henchmen, having been displaced within Kosovo itself, and women are being raped and men executed.
Assistance for refugees in the region must be much better coordinated than hitherto so that care is not duplicated for some while people in some areas receive no assistance.
It is important to have well-organised reception facilities for refugees in the region, but unfortunately it will also be necessary for a while to accommodate refugees outside the region.
I believe that this House should appeal for a fair sharing of the burden in the EU states.
It is not acceptable that Germany, for example, should once again take in the highest number and is now even preparing to take in more.
I welcome this of course, but it sends the wrong signal to your colleagues in the other states who are refusing to take in refugees, under the flimsy pretext that it would be better to provide care for them in their own region.
We are in favour of as much as possible being done in the region, but there are constraints after all, and therefore I appeal to the President-in-Office, along with the German Minister for the Interior, to ensure greater justice and more burden sharing.
I would like to take this opportunity to point out once again that dividing up Kosovo will not solve this problem.
The problem can only be solved if Kosovo is preserved and Macedonia and Albania are not further destabilised by it, as Milosevic wishes to do.
We support everything the President-in-Office said in this context.
You have our full support if you continue to work towards stabilising the region.
