Mr President, this supplementary and amending budget 5/99 is an important step towards ensuring that the new anti-fraud office, OLAF, will soon have the power to act.
I welcome the fact that the expert recommendations provided by the OLAF monitoring committee were also taken full account of on this occasion.
This was not always the case, as we have heard.
This has been put right, which is good for OLAF.
It underlines our desire to secure OLAF' s independence.
The decision as to how these posts are to be filled will lie with the future director of OLAF.
Last night, the Committee on Budgetary Control established a hearings procedure for the candidates.
It is our intention to compile a list of three names which the President of our House will then be able to decide on in concert with the Council and the Commission.
As such, we are following the recommendations provided by our Committee on Constitutional Affairs.
What we still need from the Commission though, in order to be able to start the process - and I agree with Mrs Theato here and am specifically addressing this comment to you Mrs Schreyer - is a formal decision on the candidates to be considered for the post.
There were 450 applicants.
The OLAF monitoring committee whittled this down to a list of 11 names.
Vice-President Kinnock and you yourself informed us that the competent services of the Commission have endorsed the monitoring committee' s vote.
As far as I know, however, the Commission has not yet reached a formal decision itself and rumour even has it that the Commission is to decide on a list today that now comprises only four names.
Would you be so kind as to correct me if I am wrong.
It is quite clear that such a decision would be in violation of the OLAF Regulation, which sets out that you as a Commission, require a positive statement from the monitoring committee.
Parliament and the Council decided that this is how it should work, so as to ensure that the new director would be independent of the Commission.
But you only have a positive statement of this kind for the list of 11, not for a list featuring more names and not for one featuring fewer names either.
I am not nit-picking; the point is that as this process unfolds, it must be beyond all doubt.
Particularly in view of the incidents of the last few months and the crisis in the Commission, it would, to my mind, be a severe handicap if the new director were to be appointed without EEC legislative procedure having been fully complied with.
