Mr President, as Deputy Chairman of the delegation which has just sat on this subject, and as a rapporteur to this country for many years, I can seamlessly follow on from the previous speaker.
We know that we are faced with a very, very difficult situation on account of the fact that in this country, such dubious Stalinist values are enjoying a renaissance and it appears that nothing has really changed.
On the other hand, Belarus is important for the entire European security structure and it is - and we should not forget this - one of the countries bordering the European Union.
Therefore, we are naturally clutching at any semblance of hope that we can again support a democratic movement in this country.
But the situation is unimaginably poor.
The work of the OSCE is marking time, in spite of the enormous motivation of the working group and despite the fact that it is really looking into every opportunity in detail.
All attempts at dialogue with the opposition are counteracted in practice by human rights' violations on the streets and in the prisons and by violations against the free press.
Lukashenko has to be told in no uncertain terms that he cannot speak with a forked tongue.
The drama attached to important people, rivals of Lukashenko, suddenly disappearing, shows that the opposition is to be rooted out.
As soon as a critical article is written, the newspapers are threatened with closure.
We really have to strive to speak a clear language in this regard, even if we naturally want to promote the process of dialogue and not obstruct it.
In this connection, Lukashenko, however, must be the first one to set an example.
Such an example would amount to him approving the 5 Million programme for civilian society in the event that the Commission were to travel to Minsk tomorrow.
A second example would be releasing his opponents from prison.
That would be a sign to begin a dialogue.
I would question the sense behind this resolution when Lukashenko will not listen to us in any case.
But it does have a point, because we would like to show the people that we will never lose hope for a change in Belarus, and that we will do all we can to ensure that democracy is restored to this country.
