Mr President, I should like wholeheartedly to congratulate the rapporteur, Mrs Gröner, on her efforts and on the energy with which she has moved this project forward.
I should also like to thank the Members of the Committee, for it is them we have to thank for the fact that we can today vote on a project which will in fact be available to young people very quickly.
Speed was required, and speed was what we got.
Please accept my sincere thanks on behalf of the Commission.
I must also highlight the very positive attitude of the Finnish Presidency, which has also done its best to ensure that work progresses, and I think that the cooperation established between the two institutions in order to take the negotiation forwards as quickly as possible is quite exemplary.
As the point has been raised, I would like to inform you, on the subject of information on the "Youth" programmes, that the Eurodesk network, a combination of Internet sites and youth advisory services, is available in all the countries of the Union and in all its languages.
This is a first step towards achieving what Parliament is requesting and I shall say, for the sake of the anecdote, that it is a programme that was developed on the basis of a Scottish project.
This shows that the things that work well in the regions are taken up by the Commission.
I would also like to tell you that the Commission is receptive to the conclusions of the report that your Parliament has produced.
I am therefore able to accept almost all of the amendments.
The 13 amendments tabled by Mrs Gröner will be totally or partially accepted at second reading.
We rejected certain parts of amendments for what are basically institutional reasons.
This is the case, for example, regarding the interinstitutional declaration on the significance of the sums deemed necessary, amendment 9 part 3.
One aspect of the amendment may also concern implementation.
I am thinking here of amendment 12, part 2.
Concerning finances, I have listened very closely to what you have said and I agree with you.
As you know, in the initial proposal, and in accordance with the priorities established in Agenda 2000, the Commission proposes a financial package of EUR 600 million over a period of five years.
Given that I agree with your amendment to extend the period from five to seven years, we will of course have to review the sum provided by the budget accordingly.
I think, like your rapporteur, that in order to maintain consistency between the programmes on education, training and youth, we must extend the length of the period from five to seven years.
I have indeed just confirmed this.
I also consider it essential to find a solution to the obstacles that remain in the area of youth mobility, whilst of course respecting each State' s own competences.
This is why we are able to accept amendments 2, 3 and 6.
Besides, some amendments provide useful clarification for the text of the Council' s common proposal and we feel able to accept these too.
These are amendments 1, 4, 5, 9 part 2, 10, 11, 12 part 1, as well as amendment 13, tabled by Mrs Gröner and Mrs Scallon.
It goes without saying that article 7 concerning the programming committee will have to take into account the new decision on commitology.
We are thus able to accept, in principle, amendments 7 and 8, as long as the appropriate wording can be found of course.
In order to follow up this report, I am intending to propose to the Commission that we adopt a modified proposal on the basis of the amendments that we can accept.
We will present this modified proposal to the Commission before the Council meeting due to take place on 23 November in order to assist the Ministers for Youth in reaching a decision.
As you well know, ladies and gentlemen, we still have a small battle to fight, but I remain confident in the objectives and stakes of the "Youth" programmes, and I have no doubts that these objectives will be accepted just as completely by the Council and by the Member States.
I must tell you how delighted I have been to note the enthusiasm that has been expressed here, the enthusiasm with which young and not so young Members have committed themselves to ensuring that the youth of our continent may, in future - even more so than in the past, because everyone was also in agreement in pointing out that the "Youth" programme has already given a great deal to millions of young people - build on what has already been well done.
Young people are our present.
Together with us they are building the future.
They are building their future.
With this programme we will be giving them a helping hand.
I thank you, on behalf of the young people of Europe, for having contributed towards giving them this helping hand.
(Applause)
