Mr President, the military coup that took place in Pakistan in October immediately after the army Chief-of-Staff, General Musharraf was stood down is condemned in the strongest possible terms by the PPE/DE Group.
The constitution was declared to be invalid.
The national parliament and the provincial parliaments were temporarily suspended.
Even if the take-over of power by the military occurred without great protests from the population, there is no alternative to a properly functioning democracy brought about by free elections.
The attempt to prove that the former Prime Minister Mr Sharif had participated in a criminal conspiracy and had built up a system of nepotism, should not become a show trial.
Any legal proceedings must be fair and transparent to the general public.
On meeting the EU' s special envoy, Walter Sari, on 2 November, General Musharraf rejected a timetable for the establishment of democracy.
There is therefore no reason why the EU should be prepared to follow other states, which think that the stability programme that has been announced has a good chance of success.
The first signs are quite hopeful: the assurance of a climate favourable to investment, tax relief, the thinning out of the bureaucracy and the ending of the personal enrichment of those in charge.
The national banks must stop the custom of awarding generous loans to officials.
The new, stricter anti-corruption legislation is a step in the right direction.
The loss of confidence and flight of capital can only be stopped if democracy is restored and human rights are guaranteed.
International investment has been suspended until the IMF accepts Pakistan as a full partner.
We therefore demand that the military government return to constitutional rule.
Politics must be taken over by a democratic legitimate civil government.
The suspension of both Commonwealth membership and the European Union Cooperation Agreement can only be reversed when all the conditions for the urgently needed economic, social and humanitarian reforms in Pakistan are met.
