Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent report.
She was willing to make proposals in the second part and she also formulated suggestions for future policy.
We are discussing production aid for processed tomato products.
This aid is based on processing quotas which correspond to a specific quantity of fresh tomatoes.
The regulation makes provision for quotas to be distributed between Member States every year on the basis of production in previous years.
The weather in Portugal was particularly bad during the 1997/98 marketing year.
This resulted in a net drop in tomato production, which in turn led to a reduction of 83,468 tonnes in the Portuguese tomato concentrate quota when the quotas were distributed for the 1999/2000 marketing year and a concomitant increase in the quotas of three other Member States.
A similar situation will arise when the quotas are distributed for the 2000/01 marketing year.
The purpose of the present draft regulation is to solve this problem; in other words, it increases the Portuguese tomato concentrate quota by 83,468 tonnes for the 1999/2000 marketing year and includes special provisions for setting quotas for the forthcoming 2000/01 marketing year.
What we have is a one-off change to the quota distribution system which is limited in time.
Its purpose is to solve a specific problem which has arisen in one Member State.
This amendment notwithstanding, the Commission intends to conduct a comprehensive review of this regulation.
The Commission will forward the results of this review to the Council during the year 2000.
Any amendments needed to the regulation and subsequent amendments to the regulation could then be applied with effect from the 2001/02 marketing year.
The Commission will look into the recommendations in the three proposed amendments in detail as part of this comprehensive review.
The purpose of the amendments tabled is mainly to replace quotas with a guarantee threshold, to be divided between the Member States, and to increase these quantities.
Until such time as the results are available from this comprehensive review, which will also take account of budgetary constraints, the Commission cannot accept these proposed amendments.
I say this because these proposed amendments go far beyond the very limited specific problem on which a decision is needed today, but I would like to stress that the Commission acknowledges that the proposed amendments are most constructive.
