Mr President, I cannot share the opinion of Mr Väyrynen that this Parliament does not have enough credibility.
Two months ago we took up a clear position as a single international institution, albeit not every individual in the House.
I am pleased that everyone has now come on board and that the Council and Commission also now support what we in this House clearly declared on this matter with a small majority two months ago.
However, we have now moved on considerably, having come to realise that it is not enough to direct threatening words at the Russians.
Rather, we must reach conclusions.
We must stop financing this war, which is a bloody, colonial war for oil and an especially bloody form of electoral campaigning.
This means, Commissioner, that we must stop financial payments, including TACIS funds.
On the other hand, we must clearly say to our partner that, as far as we are concerned, a partner is no longer a partner when he becomes a murderer.
This should also be obvious between states.
I would also like to clear up a few myths.
No mention is ever made of the democratically elected government of Chechnya.
This is not another internal affair for Russia.
This government was elected under the supervision of the OSCE on the basis of a cease-fire agreement which the OSCE brokered.
We must resolutely support this government against the breach of this agreement by Moscow, which is a contravention of international law and which has come about as a result of the fact that Moscow has restored a KGB puppet parliament, which was in place in Moscow before the agreement, in order to have a comfortable negotiating partner.
We must also clear up the myth that this is a response to terrorism.
Mr Cohn-Bendit is right: we do not know who carried out the bomb attacks in Moscow, which we condemn.
Much points to bogus machinations.
We must state quite clearly that anyone dropping bombs on civilians is not fighting terrorists; rather he is inciting terrorists by traumatising whole generations which will suffer the consequences of this particularly brutal form of colonialism.
We therefore need a wholly clear and energetic policy and not the assertions of alibis which we have had in recent months, including from our governments.
I would like to urge the Council and the Commission to use the same clear language at tomorrow' s OSCE Summit as the European Parliament has used in its resolution.
