Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, I should like to remind you that this Parliament or the previous Parliament decided, on the basis of my motion and my report, that a timetable should be drawn up governing how Turkey and Europe can move closer together.
This is in complete agreement with what the Commissioner has also said here today.
With commendable candour, the Commissioner has clearly set forth what he is in favour of.
I would also like to spell out clearly that my group cannot today say either yes or no to it, because we are familiar neither with the progress report nor with the discussions which the Council is having with Turkey.
I would however like to say just as clearly that I deeply regret, Mr Pöttering, not that you do not accept the consolidated resolution, that is not the essential thing, but that you are going back on the decision which this Parliament reached with a very large majority.
I find that lamentable.
We must pursue this process of rapprochement, which is a difficult one, and which will last a long time - of that I have absolutely no doubt - in the interests of the development of Turkey.
What has changed within Turkey?
Firstly, particularly on the initiative of the Greek Foreign Minister, to whom I should like to pay great tribute, a considerably better, though still not perfect, relationship between Turkey and our fellow Member State, Greece, has been achieved, as well as a step in the direction of finding a solution to the Cyprus issue which is so important.
Secondly, on the Kurdish question there was, albeit in unfortunate circumstances given the death sentence on Öçalan, still the first step towards a political solution.
Also, in the field of human rights, it was not only possible to achieve the release of Akim Birdal, even if only for health reasons, but there were also some legislative changes, which will hopefully also be put in practice.
I do not want to exaggerate matters, I do not wish to paint a totally rosy picture, but there are changes which we must respond to.
What should a country make of it if we keep saying "You must take this step and that step," and then, when it does take these steps, there is no real positive answer and no sign of recognition?
My criterion and our criterion in the Social-Democrat Group is as follows: by sending a positive sign can we reinforce the positive changes which are emerging in Turkey, or not?
That is the crux of the matter.
Secondly, what do the human rights organisations say?
What do the representatives of the Kurds in Turkey say?
Whoever you speak to in Turkey, even in the field of human rights, even with the representatives of the Kurds, you will hear the message loud and clear: relations between Turkey and Europe are improving!
This is our opportunity to be able to take more action, this is our chance to be able to do more to bring about the appropriate changes in Turkey!
In this spirit, Madam President, I would like to make it clear.
We shall give an equally clear response to the clear statement by the Commissioner when we have all the facts and all the documents.
But we have one goal as Socialists and Social Democrats and that is to change things and relationships in Turkey in such as way as to be able to speak of real democracy, freedom and respect for human rights there.
If a signal is given in Helsinki, then it must have that as its goal, and it must give full support to those who fight for human rights in Turkey.
In this spirit, on behalf of my group, I am hoping for a good decision in Helsinki.
