Mr President, Shakespeare wrote that Bohemia was located on the seacoast.
Bavaria lies in the neighbourhood of Bohemia, so perhaps Bavaria has a coastline too, and I may say that this has become true in the present-day EU, since today in the EU Morocco is in the neighbourhood of Bavaria and Spain shares a border with Poland.
All European problems are the problems of all EU states, and I therefore wish to say that this fisheries agreement is a problem for Europe as a whole.
It concerns the European Union as a whole.
It is not a local phenomenon.
Of course we must safeguard the interests of the fishermen concerned, but we must recognise that there are general ecological problems in connection with this fisheries agreement and general problems relating to both foreign and security policy, affecting the whole of the EU.
It is our task to support stability in Morocco, and I am therefore dismayed at the notes which Mr Jové Peres has introduced into this debate, in both his proposed amendments and his contribution today.
We must be glad that the remarks appropriate to the class struggle which he has expressed today have not previously led to the establishment of a socialist system in Morocco, like the ones in Libya and Algeria, with whose consequences we are having to fight a running battle today.
Instead, democracy is slowly maturing there under the new King, and we must try to support this tender shoot of democracy.
Spain has just achieved something exemplary for Europe, thanks to its intelligent policy of compensation for Morocco, in which Mr Medina Ortega, for example, also had a part.
I found his speech to be a very fine one and very important, and I would like to say quite clearly that it must be in our interests to safeguard the fishing interests of the Spanish and the other European fishermen affected, but to ensure that a sensible agreement is obtained in the near future, which includes the interests of ecological, foreign and security policies and which does not make the mistake of working with a demagogy which destabilises our neighbourhood, so that we do not wake up until it is too late, as in the Balkans or in the Caucasus today.
