Mr President, Commissioner, in undertaking our first reading of Budget 2000 today, we are discussing the first budget under the guidance of the new Commissioner, under your guidance Mrs Schreyer.
And it is the first budget to be treated in accordance with the Berlin decisions on Agenda 2000 from March of this year.
I think that both these points are worth mentioning.
Firstly, because I had expected more involvement by the Commissioner in the budgetary procedure; there was actually little to be seen and heard.
Secondly, because in the first year of implementation of the decisions on Agenda 2000 there is already a need to discuss revision of the Financial Perspective.
This also I consider to be fully worthy of note because the wish list of the foreign ministers, which has grown in recent years, means that today we can no longer cope financially.
The buck has been passed to us to bring about a solution in this and to find a way to handle matters from a budgetary point of view.
To be perfectly honest, I find this unacceptable.
First of all, the foreign ministers should be at one with their own finance ministers and then we can also sensibly implement this in the budget.
However, I would also like to say a few words on the so-called "small budgets" .
Firstly: I do not consider it credible that, as the European Parliament, we should, on the one hand, require the most stringent tests from all other institutions, in particular the Commission, that we should expect the staffing structure to be adapted to new challenges and that we should want to accomplish this through the European budget, when, on the other hand, we are not prepared, here in our own domain, in the parliamentary budget and in the parliamentary administration, to take the necessary action.
For this reason, as the Group of the European Peoples' Party, we have commissioned a study which, for our own administration, will bring about opportunities for staff development and task allocation within our departments.
We have - and I would like to state this quite clearly - started an initiative to find a neat solution to the budget funds which we must manage ourselves as a Parliament - I am referring here, in particular, to travel costs.
In this regard, in the very near future I am expecting specific proposals from our parliamentary administration which can then be treated accordingly by our Bureau.
It must not be the case that the initiative which we as the Group of the European Peoples' Party have started leads in the end to savings being made where it makes least sense, i.e. in the very place where real work is done, Strasbourg.
In the European Court of Justice, there has been an urgent need to increase the number of interpreters.
It must not be the case that Court processes are delayed for two or three years due solely to problems with interpreters.
Here we as a Parliament have seen the need and assume our responsibility.
The Committee on Regional Policy has now found a solution for solving its staffing problems internally.
It is not a matter for the budgetary authority, but something they can do, and indeed are doing, by their own efforts.
I would like to thank the rapporteurs for their loyal cooperation and hope that in the second reading also we can adopt a sound budget.
