Mr President, the main themes are now generally known, and it is not only since the Dehaene report that everyone has been talking about them.
But, in addition to these main objectives, without whose attainment an enlargement of the European Union would scarcely be conceivable, a number of basic questions, relating naturally to policy on fisheries, ought not to be forgotten.
With the Amsterdam Treaty, no satisfactory solution was found for the fisheries sector.
Firstly, I demand - as I also did in 1996 - that fisheries be mentioned specifically in the Treaties.
Fisheries must no longer be regarded as a mere appendage of agriculture.
The importance of fisheries as one of the few existing sectors for which there are Community policies must at last be emphasised by fisheries' being given their own chapter.
This chapter must state the goals of the common fisheries policy, its principles and, above all, the legal procedures governing its regulation.
Secondly, Parliament must be more thoroughly involved than it has been so far in defining the most important themes in the fisheries sphere.
I demand genuine decision-making powers in connection with the basic aspects of the common fisheries policy and the regulations governing, for example, market organisation, the preservation and management of stocks, supervisory regulations and the tools of structural policy; in other words, nothing less than codecision making by Parliament.
Thirdly, it is also necessary in the field of international politics to strengthen the role of Parliament and to introduce the procedure for agreeing to the conclusion of all international fisheries agreements.
My final point is that Parliament' s participation is also to be desired at meetings of bodies forming part of international organisations.
The points mentioned, which take account of the importance of fisheries in Europe, must therefore be picked out as central themes at the next Intergovernmental Conference when the role of Parliament is being considered.
Happily, I have just heard from Giorgos that a compromise Amendment is being submitted which also refers to the subject of fisheries.
Thank you for that.
I trust that the House will support this.
