Mr President, Commissioner, for a member of the Greens, seven and a half minutes speaking time is a real shock to the system - I do not think we have ever had so much time.
You understand the importance of the subject.
I shall not repeat everything that has already been said and I may therefore not need the full seven and a half minutes.
You may perhaps even see that as an advantage.
For me personally, cross-border fixed book prices would represent a possible answer to the possible question: "What exactly is a European cultural policy?
What does it mean and what could it do?"
Apart from the market and competition, we also have Article 151.
This article, as we know, contradicts Article 81.
As Mr Rothley has already mentioned, an exemption would have been possible.
There was a transition period, but there was no exemption.
My question is, was that a political or was that a purely legal decision?
Is this Europe of the regions, are the slogans "cultural diversity" and "the Europe of common language areas" no more than election promises?
Is no serious work being carried out on them?
From a purely legal point of view, Commissioner, you must intervene in this case, in the case of cross-border fixed book prices.
I do not understand, however, why Article 81 is valid for culture, but Article 151 is not valid for competition.
The paragraphs have different weights, legal texts are interpreted and the side which has more weight also has more merit.
Such is life.
But I see politics as an attempt to even things out, as an effort to strike a balance.
I am against neither the market nor competition, even if it may appear so.
As an artist I was exposed to competition day in, day out, I still am and sometimes it is a matter of keeping one' s head above water.
Perhaps that is precisely why I am in favour of competition, but I am also in favour of a European cultural policy.
However, I now have a problem Commissioner.
Sometimes we are not talking about the same things because we are using different studies.
You have just reminded us that the United Kingdom, like Ireland, has no book price fixing, despite the fact that they are the same language area.
You are forgetting that the huge American market also dominates these two countries to a large extent.
You are also forgetting the culturally different approach to books and that there is now a different approach to books in each Member State.
I am countering with arguments from a French study, which the Commission has only accepted in part, if at all.
You have been so kind as to promise to let me have a list of your studies, the studies on which you base your information and make your decisions, because as long as we are using different studies, we will be talking about different things and will not arrive at any conclusions.
In my view, neither the Council nor the Commission has taken over the cultural brief in this European Union in toto.
This is not meant as a slight on the promotion programmes, God forbid.
They are wonderful, they are a huge step in the right direction.
That is a hackneyed phrase, but I really mean it.
It is not enough, however; a European cultural policy is missing.
The European dimension of the promotional culture programme is embodied in books to the highest degree and it does not cost the Union a penny extra, it only costs the consumer or rather the 'dear reader' .
Books are not therefore just goods; they also have a cultural value, on that we are all agreed.
But what is the Commission doing about this?
I too am unable to absolve you, Commissioner for Competition, from responsibility for cultural policy.
We must not all decide strictly in a single direction without looking first to the left or right for ways of bringing things together.
I understand that a book is not a car and I thought that we had a legal basis for that.
However, that appears not to be the case.
I therefore ask you, Commissioner, to consider our motion for a resolution jointly.
We are all agreed that this could be a sign that competition does not behave as culture' s adversary, but as culture' s partner and that it can behave in support of cultural policy.
It can also be a sign that what we might call, on the basis of the French law, 'European' fixed book prices also give the Nation States a clear hint that they should assume responsibility rather than giving the standard response: 'that is being decided in Brussels' .
Then you could also take a huge step in the right direction!
