I must object to the element of doubt in your question as to whether I actually received the paper.
If I tell you that it was not sent to me and that no mention was made of it at the discussions in Prague, then you must believe me.
Good, then I am satisfied.
It sounded otherwise.
Regarding the question: I had a detailed discussion with the Chairpersons of the parties which you mentioned last week in Prague.
I also had discussions with other leading members of these parties.
I would not describe this in the harsh way that you did as the policy of the largest non-governing party in the Czech Republic, since that is who we are talking about.
Nevertheless, it is known that the previous Prime Minister Klaus, who is the leader of this party, has different views on the nature of the European Union from the current government and most of the parties represented in the Czech parliament.
From the point of view of the EU, I can only say that the same applies to the Czech Republic as to all other candidates.
The strategy is that the applicant countries must and wish to become full members with full rights and with full responsibilities.
The completely mistaken notion of membership à la carte, partial membership or anything else was at no time and in no place suggested by representatives of the Czech Republic in the negotiations with the Commission.
We are negotiating with the Czech Republic as with all others.
In connection with your question I would like to also point out that I have a certain hope that the extremely marked polarisation in the Czech Republic will prove surmountable.
In any case, the result of my visit last week was that, interestingly, all the parties represented in the parliament, including the extreme right and the extreme left, publicly declared, on the occasion of my visit, that they support the government' s policy of European integration.
It was very interesting to hear that they support this policy and, this is the crucial point, are prepared to rapidly develop processes which can ensure that the very complex procedure of aligning Czech laws can be carried out somewhat quicker in the future.
