Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Schreyer, ladies and gentlemen, according to an ancient Chinese proverb 'women are half of Heaven' and it is only right that in the European Union women should also be involved in the budget in the same proportion.
Perhaps that is why the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities is the last in the series of Committees to be heard this morning.
We in the Committee on Women 's Rights and Equal Opportunities have few priorities: firstly, actions specific to women and, secondly, gender mainstreaming in all Community policies.
The Fourth Action Programme for Equal Opportunities expires at the end of the year 2000 and I would like to remind Commissioner Diamantopoulou of the promise which she made to the Committee to submit as soon as possible a proposal for continuing this programme so that the Fifth Action Programme can follow on seamlessly.
DAPHNE, the programme for combating violence against children, youths and women, must pass through the second reading as quickly as possible in order to retain here also continuity with the promotion period which is expiring.
The Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities is asking here for a broad interpretation of the term "health" which covers not just physical but also mental and social well-being.
The Community initiative NOW is expiring and therefore funds must be made available in the new Community initiative EQUAL specifically for promoting women.
The labour market, education and training are key areas for the active promotion of women and accompanying measures, e.g. support for dependants, play a major role for women in particular and help to make access to the labour market easier.
Unfortunately it is still the case that in the European Union, we need special promotional opportunities for women also.
The same also applies to public relations work and the information society where we should direct our attention to women in the applicant countries in particular.
The funds for the European Women' s Lobby, which also represents the interests of women in Europe, must also be made available in Budget 2000.
Europe is facing up to its responsibility in development policy and therefore the funds here must not be cut under any circumstances.
It makes sense to group together the budget lines B7-631 and B7-6211 into a single line.
But this must then be allocated the corresponding monies.
Family planning and health care for mothers and children are among the most important principles of population policy.
Here, women are a key factor which we must use to lead developing countries out of poverty.
The involvement of women in social, economic and political life must be expanded.
By purposefully promoting women within population and development policy, we can help to produce a stable social background, to modify existing structures and to develop new structures.
The Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities is proposing only a few amendments and I would invite you to support them.
