Mr President, the new WTO round is sending out its subliminal signals.
For example, even America and China have come closer together over the WTO question.
It is precisely a rapprochement of this kind that we in the EU-China Delegation have spent long years trying to achieve.
So the wheel of history, for whose fashioning we are partly responsible, does turn constructively and progressively provided that traders' concepts and ideas, stamina and charisma have the power to convince.
That applies across the board but also to particular sectors of industry and, naturally and quite specifically, to the maritime sector, therefore.
Waterways bind routes and continents on our planet, and they are rich in as yet unexhausted natural resources.
Through new technological developments, shipping and shipbuilding can again be sectors of the economy which are aiming high.
Who would have thought so just a short time ago?
We are fighting for a similarly positive status for the fisheries sector, too.
In spite of the basically different methods of management, I am therefore appealing, for example, to Mr Cunha, as agricultural rapporteur, to also consider the fisheries sector, particularly since Mr Cunha is also my coordinator on the Committee on Fisheries.
Who would want to dispute the fact?
In spite of the tiny budget allocated to it, an efficient fisheries sector forms a not insignificant part of any dynamic trade and budget policy for the EU and should be seen as a sector of the economy in its own right and as a significant branch of the food industry.
There are also a large number of jobs concentrated there - in the EU, in third countries and worldwide.
If we lose this sector, we weaken those regions which are already structurally weak anyway, and all in a quite irresponsible way.
Let us beware, therefore, of regarding the WTO as a panacea for our problems.
Only if we start from a healthy position at home will we make a convincing case to competitors on our planet.
Even a totally liberalised market may possibly mean the exploitation of fish stocks beyond their ability to replenish themselves.
I therefore want us to have a responsible and sustainable fisheries sector characterised by partnership, and I wish Mr Schwaiger and his team every success in the negotiations, not least for our own benefit.
