Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, I am new to this Parliament.
Allow me to make a comment: debates about cultural policy - a handful of people are present who are, however, by and large like-minded.
I believe we have an almighty struggle ahead of us.
And because there are so few of us, we must also stick together here.
Turning now to the Observatory.
As rapporteur for the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy that was asked for an opinion, I naturally speak in favour of the Community' s participating in the European Audiovisual Observatory.
I also concur with the Commission' s proposal that the period of this involvement should be set at five years.
As already mentioned, the Observatory counts 34 European countries as members and therefore almost anticipates the forthcoming enlargement of the EU as well.
It does not just confine itself to market research and to gathering statistics and does not therefore only juggle with figures.
Instead, it offers qualitative analyses and goes so far as to provide legal information.
It is, above all, especially important to have information about the resources available to particular branches of industry.
Information of this kind is of course important when overseeing, evaluating and formulating Community programmes in the audiovisual sector, and it is of decisive importance to industry itself and especially to small and medium-sized businesses.
This is where my only criticism comes in.
According to my researches, it is, in many Member States, precisely the small and medium-sized businesses which know anything from not enough to nothing at all about the Observatory.
And yet it is they which would find using this service of great importance.
Respective contacts were challenged and questioned about this matter at various levels, and I am pleased that, at my suggestion, the Commission has made a really good proposal, namely to include a clearly visible link on its home page.
I hope that this proposal is also soon translated into action.
In view of the forthcoming negotiations with the World Trade Organisation, during which the audiovisual sector will also be discussed, it is becoming ever clearer how important it is for reliable information about markets in Europe to be available not only to political decision-makers such as the Community bodies, the governments of the Member States and the social and economic decision-makers of the Member States and regions, but also to researchers, universities and the media.
