Mr President, an historic decision has indeed been taken in Helsinki.
It is a cheque made out to the future and, to be frank, neither you nor we know how we can honour it.
After the unanimous vote on the enlargement process, no further doubt can or will be cast on the seriousness of our intentions and of Turkey' s intention to meet the Copenhagen criteria as quickly as possible.
It is the will of the Helsinki Summit that the European Union should number 28 Member States in a few years' time.
However, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Mr President of the Commission, a number of questions then arise as to the scope of the decisions which have been taken.
Do you really believe that, once the Amsterdam leftovers have been cleared up, our Union will still have the power to act and will still be transparent and democratic with 27 or 28 Member States?
Do you really believe that we can maintain the present language rules in our institutions with 15, 16, 17 or 18 languages?
Do you believe that we can maintain the present internal modus operandi of our institutions, of the Council, the European Parliament and the Commission and the balance between them with 27 or 28 Member States?
Do you really believe that Turkey, the European country with the largest population and a long history its own, will merely join the European Union as its 28th Member State rather than changing the very nature of it?
Do we not need a plan for moving the Schengen borders to the Euphrates and Tigris?
Do we not need a plan for dealing with accession applications received by the European Union from the States of Eastern Europe and the Caucasus in the wake of the Helsinki decision?
And for dealing with Russia if we receive accession applications from the States of that region?
I trust that we will find the flexibility within the European Union, the flexibility which has so far completely eluded us - what we previously described as flexibility notwithstanding - in order to safeguard the cohesion of the European Union.
I trust that we shall, over coming years, find the strength and the courage to answer these questions and to find answers of our own before others find them for us.
