Mr President, Commissioner Liikanen, the questions have actually been asked, and there are a great many questions about this regulation.
We too welcome the fact that there has been some movement at last.
But it is regrettable that the Commission has only reacted to pressure - pressure from the Austrian Government - and has been proposing legislation piecemeal for years.
Where, for example, is the novel feed regulation?
How, Commissioner, can you reconcile this with the new Commission slogan that there should be greater transparency, when for example more than 80% of soya production goes into animal feed?
I would have liked you to tell me this evening whether you are prepared to announce your support for a moratorium until we have a novel feed regulation.
Because anything else means misleading packaging with the result that our consumers are secretly sold quasi-genetically manipulated food under false pretences.
I would have liked to learn from you this evening how long these tactics of submitting to the pressure of the feed industry are going to last, or whether you are finally going to deliver on the promise which Mr Prodi made here of greater transparency for consumers.
Incidentally - but you know this already - we also think that the 1% is far too high.
The level ought to be at least as low as half, as this is possible to analyse.
If you are going to assume that there is unintentional contamination then, Mr Liikanen, you will have to explain to me how, in a shipload of soya, 3000 tonnes - that is 1% - becomes unintentionally contaminated!
I do not believe that this has anything, anything at all to do with it.
We expect you to do what you have already said you would do in the committee, which is to endorse Parliament's vote, finally invite everyone to a round table and propose a new threshold as quickly as possible.
Secondly, I expect a clear statement from you this evening on how long the Commission's delaying tactics on the novel feed regulation are going to last, and whether you consider it appropriate, with a view to consumers finally having a clear picture, to support this proposal - part of which was also of course drafted by the Council of Ministers - to declare a moratorium.
For I believe that this is the only way to achieve some degree of clarity here.
