Mr President, let me say on behalf of the European People' s Party (Christian Democrats) and the European Democrats that this proposal for a directive is another brick in the edifice of European air quality policy.
The air quality framework directive is implemented by issuing daughter directives on a series of air pollutants.
This is the second such daughter directive and it relates to the limit values for benzene and carbon monoxide in the air and the corresponding control and information requirements.
The purpose of our proposed amendments is not only to stipulate strict environmental protection requirements but to format these requirements so that they can be transposed and complied with by all Member States.
In order to achieve this objective, certain compromises need to be made, especially with regard to our southern Member States.
From this point of view, the specifications of the European Commission and the extensive amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection are very demanding.
The Finnish Presidency is making a serious effort to make use of the new legal possibilities afforded by the Amsterdam Treaty and to bring this proposal into force after the first reading with the amendments of the European Parliament.
We all know how urgent the problem of reducing air pollution is, also with respect to climatic change.
As Mrs Breyer has already pointed out, the real aim is to improve health protection for our citizens.
On these grounds, I welcome the plan of the Finnish Presidency.
But that also means that we in the European Parliament must responsibly create the right conditions.
It is precisely for this reason that I am unable to agree with certain proposed amendments adopted by a majority in the Committee on the Environment and tabled mainly by Mrs Breyer and her group, because some are superfluous and do not help to improve the text while others have no place in this proposal for a directive because they do not concern the scope of the proposed directive.
It is for this reason that we reject a series of proposed amendments.
My proposed amendment of Article 3(2) was adopted by a large majority in committee.
In consultations with advisers, our rapporteur, Mrs Breyer, and experts, we again supplemented and tightened up this amendment.
This is proposed amendment 22, which I would ask you all to support.
I would like to thank Mrs Breyer.
She was at pains to find a consensus and it was not easy, but I think that if we confine ourselves to the basic proposed amendments which improve the Commission proposal, and this refers mainly to Amendment Nos 1, 5, 7, 10, 11, 15, 16 and 22, it should be possible to pass this important directive quickly.
I imagine, hope and expect that, in its reply, the Commission will support this directive and really pave the way for it to be implemented as quickly as possible.
