draftsman of the opinion of the Committee asked for an opinion, the Committee on Fisheries.
Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Fisheries has studied in detail the figures in the budget relating to fisheries.
The debate was tense and lively.
There were many differences of opinion, firstly on FIFG, secondly on support for the common European fisheries policy by the Council and the Member States, above all in relation to international fisheries agreements such as the most recent one with Morocco, and thirdly on relations between the EU and other international organisations.
We appeal for the European Parliament at least to try to maintain the level of appropriations allocated to the common fisheries policy in recent financial years.
On my initiative, we in the Committee have drafted three amendments which have all recently been adopted either directly or indirectly by the Committee on Budgets.
In particular, the Committee on Fisheries is concerned about line B2-901 concerning supervision and monitoring measures by the Member States, line B2-903 concerning support for the common European fisheries policy and line B7-8000 concerning international fisheries agreements.
The budgetary policy variously affects the three following core issues.
Firstly: structural operations.
At the Berlin Summit, EUR 161 million were earmarked for regions outside Objective 1 areas.
That is a truly considerable amount, yet the commitment and payment appropriations increased in 1998 and 1999 and might, in all probability, increase further.
Secondly: the draft budget does not allocate sufficient money for the implementation of an effective supervision and monitoring policy.
In 1999 alone, the Member States applied for more money than was available in the EU budgets.
This explains why the Committee on Fisheries applied for an additional sum of EUR 2 million.
At the same time, we are understandably reassured by the fact that there is sustainable management of resources, systematic recording of basic data and an intensification of dialogue with the industry.
Accordingly, the Committee on Fisheries then made this application a high budgetary priority.
The third matter is obviously Morocco.
We welcome the negotiating mandate which the Council has finally awarded.
Finally, I would like to point out that the common fisheries policy - but I do not really need to tell you that - requires major support by the Community.
I do not just mean financial support.
We are facing major challenges.
We must all make it perfectly clear that that the EU, which constitutes a superpower in the fisheries sector, is prepared to stand up for an industry which concerns numerous regions, States and citizens of the Union.
The number and quality of jobs is of significant added value to the EU and, as we all know, also plays a crucial role in enlargement.
