Mr President, the fact is, and I can only endorse what my colleagues have just said, that we are running a considerable risk of missing the goal and failing to create a multi-ethnic Kosovo, which was our goal, and of creating a ethnically pure Kosovo, i.e. a purely Albanian Kosovo just before we reach that goal.
Mr Posselt, you are right in your criticism.
In this very House, Mrs Pack and many others including myself have for years pointed out what could happen in Kosovo if we continue to look on and thereby contribute to Rugova being frozen out.
When we were in Kosovo a short while ago - the President of this House and Mrs Pack -, we saw that where "ethnic cleansing" occurred, the situation is going fairly well.
But where the ethnic groups meet, the conflicts are very acute and they have become more acute.
It is unacceptable that if Serbs or Albanians need to go to hospital, they actually run a risk of being more injured once they get there than they would have been before they got to hospital.
The language of the international community must be clear here.
It is unacceptable that every Albanian who has a liberal, open attitude, like the former speaker of the delegation at Rambouillet, is threatened because he speaks out in favour of the Serbs, the Roma, the Sinti and other ethnic groups being accepted in his country.
As was already mentioned, it also has to do with the fact that we unfortunately have Albanian politicians in Kosovo who do not conduct policy that is geared to the future structure, but are working in a one-sided way according to which side they are on.
It was the speaker of the delegation in Rambouillet who made a great impression on us when he said: "Ask an Albanian politician any minor date, any minor event in history and he will tell you a lot about it.
If you ask him how the social security system of the future will be extended, you will not find anyone who can give you an answer" .
So it is all the more important - and I should like to stress this - that UNMIK and Bernard Kouchner make rapid progress in setting up a government.
The government must of course have contact with the population.
It must work together with the population.
But it must also examine very carefully who it is and then it must become clear and unambiguous that it is the UN that is also at stake along with its mandate and its authority and of course the European Union as well.
We must help the Albanian population to build a multi-ethnic society.
That is the great task before us.
The battle for freedom in Kosovo has not yet been won.
There is still a lot to do!
