I would like to remind you that in its sitting on 16 September, Parliament postponed the final vote on Mrs Pack' s report on this matter.
Pack (PPE), rapporteur.
Madam President, I should like to ask that we reject the request for urgent debate.
During the last part-session of Parliament, we did not see any requests for urgent debate because we still wanted to give the Council and the Commission the opportunity to have a proper look at our amendments and to also evaluate them and perhaps even comply with them.
It is not acceptable that, during the summer recess, we should, in no time at all, have responded to the Council' s request by producing a report, and that the Council should then not even have taken note of what we had proposed by way of amendments, let alone thought of complying with them.
We expect that, by the time of the next part-session in October, the Council will have told us which of our amendments it has accepted and which it has not.
At the last part-session in Brussels, Chris Patten told us that he too would examine these proposals and would then present one of his own.
I believe that if, by means of its proposals, Parliament is speaking up for more efficiency in spending tax revenue, the Council should not do the opposite.
If, in fact, money ever disappears or gets lost in the wheels of administration, then it is always the Commission which is to blame and never the Council.
We should like, as this agency gets off the ground, for everything really to be perfectly clear, for the administration to be stringent, for the headquarters of the Agency for Reconstruction in Thessaloniki to be closely linked to the headquarters of the Stability Pact (also in Thessaloniki) and for the Kosovo Agency to be an operational component of this in Kosovo.
We also want the administrative structures to be so strict that the processes through which money is spent are precisely visible.
I should like here to contradict anyone who maintains that reconstruction in Kosovo will not be possible if we do not take a vote here today.
That is nonsense.
The EU Commission' s Task Force is already working in the area itself.
It is doing this and, ladies and gentlemen, you all know very well that the Commission never pays up very quickly and that we cannot therefore say: today it issues its instructions and tomorrow it pays.
It can confer the assignment today, and when, in October, the amount required has been estimated, it will then pay, perhaps in November or December at the earliest - as always, unfortunately, very belatedly.
We are not the ones who are impeding the reconstruction of Kosovo.
It is the Council which will be doing this if it does not soon follow us on the path that we have embarked upon here.
