Mr President, in Seattle we experienced the failure of the WTO Conference, but not of the philosophy behind it.
What do we learn from this?
Firstly, it makes little sense to meet in countries where an election campaign is underway.
Anyone for whom public opinion at home is more important than international agreements should not be surprised when their guests take an invitation as an invitation to go home.
Secondly, it makes little sense to reduce world trade to the concept of fair; the two concepts of fair and socially balanced need to go hand-in-hand.
The international community is tired of protectionism, barriers to trade and being dictated to by a few global players.
Thirdly, on the other hand it does make sense, in spite of all the differences between delegations, to speak with one voice.
I very much welcome the way in which the Commission conducted itself.
Your morning briefings to us Members of Parliament, Commissioner Lamy, were characterised by openness and a willingness to take account of our views.
The result was that this time the EU sat not in the sin bin, but in the mediator's chair.
Fourthly, it makes sense to work more closely with the NGOs.
However, at their day-long symposium in Seattle they hardly had a chance to speak.
I was forced to realise that only a few people are aware of how close Europe is to them.
Whether it was protecting the environment, animals, health or consumers that was being discussed, the dialogue was broken off before it had had chance to start.
The demonstrations paralysed the conference.
What began as a good-natured event degenerated into a state of siege with a high degree of aggression and violence.
Fifthly, it makes sense also to deal with controversial matters.
The taboos of today can be workable compromises tomorrow.
Admittedly the subjects have to be handled sensitively.
The American President's statement that if labour standards were not implemented then sanctions might be imposed was far from helpful.
This reached us conference participants not by chance but by design.
The EU will, however, be capable of winning a majority on the proposal for a permanent WTO and ILO forum, on questions of fundamental rights and on rules of the social market economy.
Despite Seattle, therefore, there are definitely grounds for hope.
