Mr President, the European Parliament came out clearly in favour of a review of the interinstitutional agreement at first reading of the budget in order to be able to honour the commitments in connection with the fisheries agreement, aid to Kosovo, aid to East Timor and support for the victims of the earthquakes.
We made it clear by a large majority that new political priorities must not be financed at the cost of other, unfinished tasks.
The compromise negotiated between the Council and Parliament which lies before us today takes no account whatsoever of this basic position of Parliament.
I seriously wonder where exactly the compromise lies, what justification we have for using this term.
We are struggling for social justice in the world.
That does not mean taking appropriations from the poor in one part of the world and giving them to the poor in another part of the world.
Reducing appropriations for social tasks in order to fund foreign policy challenges is not a solution.
A budget which is designed on such lines and which, moreover, does not even provide sufficient appropriations for the so-called new priorities, takes all our political declarations and resolutions to the point of absurdity.
Parliament must therefore say no to this pseudo compromise.
What is needed is the courage to draw the obvious conclusions from the development of European integration and to provide the EU with sufficient funds to carry out its tasks.
It is high time that we really started thinking and acting as Europeans and establishing fully justified individual interests in this context.
It is unacceptable to continue acting in this upside-down way in budgetary and fiscal matters.
Parliament should stand firm on its demand for a review of the financial perspective.
The financial room for manoeuvre needed to do so can be created within the framework of European Union decisions, namely by setting the use of own resources from gross domestic product at a higher level.
If we want to stop patching things up every year, then we must turn our serious attention to the question of the reform of European own resources.
