Mr President, a brutal colonial war is currently taking place in the Caucasus which is being disguised as an anti-terrorist and anti-fundamentalist campaign, I could almost say a holy crusade.
A few years ago, the talk was of the Gulf War, no blood for oil.
I now miss these demonstrations because there, blood is indeed flowing for oil.
Mr Putin has talked quite openly of the fact that the war in the Caucasus is exclusively, or primarily, about energy and raw material interests which are being defended there.
Human rights have been trampled upon in an extraordinarily brutal fashion, as was already corroborated by the OSCE during the last Chechen war.
Even at that time, we needed a long time to become aware of the reality and we later said, "Yes, if only we had known that" .
This is what we should avoid this time.
It was announced yesterday that Russia' s military budget for next year is to be increased by EUR 1 billion on account of the Chechen war.
You know that Russia would today be unable to repay its debts without IMF credits and without money from the EU; in other words, we are paying for this brutal war.
Therefore, we have a large responsibility to bring our political weight and the Agreement on Partnership and Cooperation to bear in order to stop this war and to ensure that dialogue is again entered into with the Chechen President, elected under the supervision of the OSCE, and with the Chechen parliament, also elected under the supervision of the OSCE.
You are aware that Moscow has reactivated the pseudo-parliamentary Council in Moscow that was established before the armistice, to which it has signed up.
It recognises this Council and in so doing, has ruthlessly broken this agreement, which came about under the auspices of the OSCE.
We must put a stop to this.
I must say in fairly unequivocal terms, Mrs Krehl, that I do not understand how, exactly ten years to the day that it was plotted to use the military against refugees, exiles, prospective emigrants and demonstrators in Saxony, the SPD Chairman of Saxony can express sympathy for military action.
At that time, I would, however, have wished for a similarly clear position from Mr Markov and others, although that is another story.
Irrespective of this, however, we must put a stop to this terrible campaign.
