Mr President, Madam President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner, a happy circumstance: two ladies at the head of two institutions deciding a matter of the utmost importance.
For the first time, women are in the majority at European level.
My congratulations!
They say that new brooms sweep clean.
We are facing a major problem.
The Commission discussed and decided its employment policy 2000 today.
The question which must be asked time and time again in connection with the budget is: how can we ensure that the employment situation in Europe improves?
I think there is an urgent need to consider which budget lines can be used to create employment in Europe, which budget lines can be used to secure jobs and which budget lines destroy jobs.
I think these considerations need to be analysed more seriously in research programmes and the necessary conclusions drawn from them.
A second important confirmation is the confirmation of the posts for OLAF.
The fight against fraud must be a priority for us.
We have noted that our budget is in fact about the same size as the fraud perpetrated in numerous cases.
We are talking here, perhaps in inverted commas, about a few million, while several billions are being lost through fraud, which is why I see the creation of OLAF as being of prime importance.
I hope that, with OLAF, we can manage to ensure that honest and decent people on the market will again be given a better chance, as will those who dutifully pay their taxes and help to ensure that our social system functions properly.
I too should therefore like to thank the members in particular for increasing the budget line for the promotion of small and medium-sized enterprises by 15 million euros.
I think it is the right way forward, because this sector creates new jobs, presents the greatest growth and pays the most taxes.
When we talk of giving, we should also think about what we will be taking.
Small enterprises make a very special contribution here, which is why the START programmes and support programmes are particularly important, because they show that we sympathise with small enterprises.
We have also set aside 10 million for digital applications.
This is the sector which will have the highest employment in the future.
Commissioner Liikanen has told us that, up to the year 2002, some 1.2 million jobs will probably remain vacant in the multimedia sector due to a lack of training.
That should give us food for thought.
We should focus on the sectors in which we can earn money, the sectors which guarantee that the European Union too will have enough money in the future to be able to tackle the problems of this planet.
