Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the President-in-Office used the image of a relay baton to be passed on with the macroeconomic dialogue.
But it is not totally clear to us where he wants to run with this baton.
We are still afraid he will just do a few splendid laps of honour round the stadium for the gallery, and that we will have to make do with unproductive or inadequate results.
I would like to emphasise what has already been said here about Parliament' s non-participation.
The lack of European Parliament participation in this dialogue is more than just a slight drawback.
There is a direct link between democratic productivity, the productivity of the results achieved through a dialogue of this kind, and the type of participation.
None of you involved in the dialogue, neither the Council nor the Commission, nor the European Central Bank, will be held directly to account if European solutions fail to emerge - unlike those elected to this Parliament, unlike those who sit in this House and are considered directly responsible by the electors who have voted for us!
I warn you not to underestimate that point, because I believe that participation by Members will lead to better results in this case.
There are pivotal shortcomings in the thought process.
These relate to both the employment guidelines and to the key features of our economic policy.
What is more, in some important areas thinking revolves around out-of-date ideas that public budgets can be consolidated just by limiting revenue and at the same time cutting expenditure.
But that is not the sort of thinking that can eliminate remaining deficits.
Last but not least, experience in America has shown that you cannot save your way out of remaining deficits, but rather that you have to eliminate them through growth.
That is why it is necessary to support the economic development process in Europe, so as to tap all the available potential.
That is why we are asking you very directly as to when agreements will be reached in which concrete benchmarks will be negotiated on the contribution of public investment to steady growth, which is also bound to have a positive impact on the labour market?
When will you finally agree quantitative and qualitative employment targets to ensure that employment is raised to the level prevalent in Japan or in the USA?
And when will you enter into a concrete agreement with us so that we can implement a consolidated strategy to exploit all the economic potential of Europe' s countries as well?
There is no sign of that yet!
