Mr President, Mr Leinen, you now have the misfortune of having to speak between Mr von Boetticher and myself.
I would therefore take the liberty of again reminding you of one aspect of what Mr von Boetticher quite correctly pointed out here, namely that it is also a part of this package that a clear framework of competences of the European Union is to be laid down in the general, basic part of the Treaties.
Perhaps the same is true of yourself as it is of me: through the opening of accession negotiations with a further twelve potential Member States, the scales have, as it were, fallen from our eyes and we have seen what immense consequences and effects the enlargement is going to have on the European Union itself.
Basically, this is not a traditional accession of States.
With the union of twelve new and fifteen old Member States, we are, rather, facing the situation of a re-establishment of the Union.
The necessity of comprehensive reforms has therefore been emphasised quite rightly here.
I should just like to issue one warning.
We ought not now to be tempted to repeat the old demands which we have always made, but now under the banner of the enlargement of the Union, for that would basically prevent us from seeing that we must consider completely new visions of our European Union.
I should like briefly in this regard to consider one idea.
I am convinced that, with 27 Member States, it will be impossible for the European Union to be as active in the same breadth and depth as it is with the present fifteen Member States.
We must therefore also concentrate on the key competences of the European Union and, in this connection, consider in which areas it is indispensable for the European Union to be active.
I am certain that, with some good will, we can find a whole range of other areas where that is not the case.
I want to add one last remark.
I should not like here to associate myself with the general European chiding directed against centralism, but I should like to canvass for a comprehensive, honest critique of the European Union' s tasks so that we do not need to be afraid that our achievements will be jeopardised through enlargement.
