Mr President, Commissioner, I think that there are still three controversial points in this directive which we also need to discuss.
In order to do so, we need to consider briefly why this directive has even been tabled.
Surely not because it is fun to collect data; enough data is being collected already.
No, it is because we have concluded a voluntary agreement with the motor industry.
That is the first time that we have done so at European level.
We need to have instruments so that we can monitor this undertaking.
That is why we have tabled this directive and that is why this directive needs to be a suitable instrument which really can be used for monitoring purposes.
There are therefore three points, I think, which need to be included in the directive and in this respect I support the excellent work carried out by the rapporteur.
First: we must make it clear that if the monitoring data show that the voluntary undertaking does not work, then legislation will follow.
In other words, there needs to be a link between monitoring and legislation if the figures prove unequivocally that the undertakings are not being complied with.
That needs to be added.
Secondly: we also need clear rules on using the data.
It is no good filing the data and leaving the files locked away in a cupboard somewhere.
They must be the basis in 2002 for monitoring the voluntary undertaking.
We need an independent data register for monitoring the voluntary undertaking and I feel that this needs to be clearly stated in the directive.
Thirdly: the voluntary undertaking by the motor industry, both in Europe and in Japan and Korea, refers to technical measures to reduce CO2 through better engines, lighter vehicles etc.
That also needs to be monitored.
If CO2 consumption drops due to changes in purchasing patterns, because suddenly we all want to buy three-litre cars, then that is something else.
We therefore need a clear division between technical measures and consumer patterns and this too needs to be integrated into the directive so that this instrument really can be used in line with the intention which brought about the directive in the first place.
So let us add these three points to the directive so that we have a proper, efficient instrument for monitoring this voluntary agreement which, after all, is an experiment for the European Union.
