Mr President, whoever would like to know what use the Audiovisual Observatory is, needs only to cast a glance at the contents page of any issue of the legal journal, IRIS, for example the issue for September 1999.
Here, there is a report about a resolution to enact a Directive from the European Commission requiring Member States to ensure that no telecommunications company of relevance to the market should be able to operate its cable television network through the same legal entity.
Another report is about the plan for a comprehensive French draft law concerning the information society which is to govern, among other things, questions about the free use of codings, about confidentiality in data transfers, about copyright protection and about necessary regulatory authorities.
A third report concerns the latest judgements of the European Court of Human Rights through which 13 complaints against Turkey were heard and in eleven of which the Court agreed with the appellants and recognised violations of the law concerning free expression.
All this amounts to far more than just collating statistical material, and I think it makes it clear why this institution is important.
This impressively casts some light upon the objectives with which the founding of the Observatory was originally justified, namely those of surveying the market and promoting transparency there, as well as collecting and processing information and statistics concerning the audiovisual sector.
Industry and related areas, and also the European Commission, Member States and the European Parliament, have since reaped the benefits of the Observatory' s services in many different ways.
It has not, however, had any binding legal basis, and this is now to be created on the basis of Article 130a, paragraph 3 of the EC Treaty and with reference to the fact that, as a provider of information, it is mainly to contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of the audiovisual industry by improving the flow of information.
The transparency which is to be produced in this way is an indispensable prerequisite for political action on Europe' s road to the information society, even if this is not perhaps to the liking of those who want to throw open the doors to unbridled market forces.
I welcome the fact that the rapporteur has come out in favour of a five-year period of applicability.
This view is shared by my Group.
