Mr President, we are talking today about the Daphne programme on measures to fight violence against children, young persons and women.
A decision is urgently needed on this programme, in order to ensure continuity when the present period of support comes to an end.
This is an important programme which complies with our commitment to achieve a high level of health protection in the European Union.
I say this because we unfortunately still come across the effects of violence in our society all too often, and they represent a serious health risk.
This is not just a question - and let me stress that I would like to see that little word "just" in quotation marks - of physical and sexual forms of violence.
Protection against psychological violence, which occurs in many more different shapes and forms, and against which victims are even less well equipped to defend themselves, belongs in the Daphne programme.
You cannot define health solely in terms of physical well-being.
Every form of violence leaves a legacy of psychological damage which can only be repaired in rare cases or with difficulty.
We need to set up new networks here and to support existing ones.
However, it is equally important to support appropriate information campaigns, and in this case exchanges of experience play a big part.
These exchanges need to extend to criminal prosecution, where discrimination against the victim must be avoided when charges are brought.
It is important to give victims adequate information about their rights, and society must be made more sensitive in dealing with crimes of violence against women, children and young people.
Children and young people need our special protection, and unfortunately this still applies to women too.
Only when well-being has been attained in all social structures in our society will we be able to solve the problems of the future.
Finally, I would like to thank Mrs Avilés Perea very much for her swift and competent work, which she did so quickly despite the changeover, so that this urgently needed report is before us now.
