Mr President, I am probably one of the few here in this House who personally knew Louise Weiss, after whom this wonderful building is named.
Louise Weiss said in her superb opening address to the European Parliament after the first direct elections that there should not only be European pigs and cows, although cows are particularly topical at present, but that there should also be European people.
However, European people are not the same throughout the Union and European culture thrives on its diversity.
This diversity is the point at issue.
It is always dangerous when politics fails to take note of realities.
In the book trade, there is not only the reality of the internal market and the nation state; there is also the reality of language areas.
It would be criminal to exclude the reality of language areas.
Commissioner, I represent Bavaria here.
Bavaria probably has more in common culturally with Austria, which is represented by Mr Karas, and with the South Tyrol, which is represented by Mr Ebner, than with many regions in northern Germany.
Nonetheless, there is a uniform German language area.
This uniform German language area cannot concentrate purely on the national market or the EU market and the reality lies somewhere between the two.
To recognise this reality is to recognise Europe as it is.
This is a prerequisite to successful integration.
The fact that we here in Parliament have spoken out so vehemently and with a large majority on this matter for years now is not a sign of eccentricity; it shows how strongly this debate worries the people.
I warn the Commission that its justified concerns about market laws allows it to forget, so to speak, that our citizens expect more of Europe, that they expect a cultural Europe, which is why I am strongly in favour of negotiating a compromise here, of giving the Austrian and German book trade time to implement the solution which is in the offing.
We need time.
That is fundamental.
I take the view that the real issue here is the legitimisation and the future of European unification.
The issue is simply whether or not people will be able, in future, to say in Latin - another threatened minority language - Civis europaeus sum.
