Mr President, I support this compromise resolution on the year 2000 computer problem.
Unfortunately, this resolution is not sufficient to do justice to all the important aspects of this subject.
For this reason, I would mention three points in particular that are of great importance.
The Japanese government has called on the people to stockpile purchases.
That shows that the risk associated with the millennium bug is incalculable, and that also applies to Europe of course.
It is a matter of great urgency that instructions be issued on how to act and that we discuss what could happen.
Secondly, where is the reply from the EU to the desperate call for help from 27 African states on 21 October this year?
They are also asking the industrialised countries for help in overcoming their Y2K problem.
Thirdly: The main question is, however, where did they get this problem from?
This not only applies to Africa but to other countries in the "developing" world.
In all analyses of and discussions on this subject, the developing countries do not play a part.
But in fact they will be the hardest hit by the change in the date because they have been given old computers from the rich Northern countries that are not year 2000 compliant.
The serious effect of this will be that food supplies will not be guaranteed and the internal stability of many countries will be threatened.
43 days before the turn of the century and we are still far from a solution to this problem.
Here we see the dark side of the so-called global village of information technology.
Old computers are handed over, along with responsibility.
I expect rapid action.
That not only applies to the Y2K problem, because the next problem is almost upon us.
Many computers have not stored the date of 29 February in the year 2000.
Everyone is talking about the Y2K problem, the millennium bug, but this problem is not being prepared for at all and it could have much more serious consequences as a result of nobody being prepared for it.
