Mr President, Commissioner, the question of fixed book prices is primarily a question of cultural policy.
The fact, Mr President, Commissioner, that I am addressing you here and now in German demonstrates that fixed book prices are not just a national problem; they are a cross-border issue which also affects a series of linguistic enclaves outside Germany and Austria.
Books are cultural assets, writing is the first recorded form of the language, of linguistic identity, and I think that, however important it is to comply with competition standards, the cultural aspect must be considered equally important and given equal status.
Even if current legislation within the framework of the European Union does not yet allow for cross-border regulations in this area, I hope that we shall arrive at this form of regulation in the future, especially since the German and Austrian Ministers for Culture defined and documented this issue as such for cross-border action in February last year.
I think that a regulation needs to be found to protect authors and to protect publishers, if not in the form of current cross-border measures, then in the form of national regulations.
The problem of imports, be they of a contractual or legislative nature, is a crucial element in this respect.
I hope that the rapprochement to date between the Commission and the European Parliament, which has already taken up this matter several times during the last parliamentary term, be it in the Committee on Culture or in plenary, will continue.
And as Mr Rothley has already said: it will not do to have a patchwork quilt in Europe in the future; on the contrary, we need a sensible regulation, which may not be optimal but which meets the demands of the professional organisations in question.
The French model could offer a workable, viable solution for the immediate future.
In this sense we hope, Commissioner, that you and the Commission will be able to grant Parliament' s wish, the wish which it has expressed here and in the documents of this legislation.
