Mr President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Commissioner Lamy, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to talk about some fundamental aspects of the Millennium Round which my party considers to be important.
My colleagues will deal with this in greater detail from their own respective points of view.
The new round of World Trade negotiations which will open in Seattle on 30 November, offers the opportunity to partially extend the blueprint for world trade, in some fundamental aspects.
The round will automatically take on a symbolic character and should contain a clear message from the European Union.
Our aim must be to achieve growth, employment and prosperity for everyone, and at the same time to reduce the poverty which exists throughout the world.
The concept of opening up the market further only makes sense if everyone is able to profit from it.
What we need is a new sense of direction, which leads to a reconciliation of trade and social components, without thereby setting up new barriers of discrimination by means of a concealed form of protectionism.
We therefore have to ensure that social and employment standards, standards for health and food as well as env0ironmental considerations form an essential part of the negotiating package.
The new WTO Round may lead to a further push towards globalisation which will make many people anxious.
We must make it clear that everyone has something to gain from an open system of world trade.
As far as this is concerned, it is particularly important to establish improved integration of the developing countries into the world economy and into the multilateral world trade system.
The Group of the Party of European Socialists particularly supports the Commission' s attempt to combine the concepts of globalisation and sustainable development.
This is the only way to ensure that the basis for world trade is formed in a balanced and socially just way.
We also agree with the Commission and the Council, in that this round of negotiations must be comprehensive, that is, one that includes all subjects.
This is the only way to guarantee a sensible consideration of the specific advantages and disadvantages.
This is also the only way that the interests of the European Union and of its citizens can both be assured.
This time, the European Union must show that it is in a position to play some role in these marathon negotiations, if not a leading one.
It would be disastrous for the European side to respond passively to the current weakness of the American political leadership.
This is an appeal particularly to the Council to come up with a united European position and to the Commission to express complete confidence that a comprehensive mandate for negotiation will be granted in time, which will allow it to be submitted officially to Parliament for approval at the same time.
Only if the European Union is strong at the negotiating table, will it be able to ensure that, within the framework of the World Trade Organisation, there will be a better balance in the globalisation process, between the European and the American models for liberalisation.
Comprehensive information and transparency are necessary to win the public' s confidence in and agreement with the new negotiating rounds.
We particularly welcome the consultation with unions and non-governmental organisations.
Confidence is also essential because the continuing development of the European Model amongst other things depends on what scope for arrangements national and regional administrations will have in the future.
Just consider that the World Trade Organisation is a leading player, if the leading player, in shaping global economic processes.
Only by combining transparency, the involvement of the public and official, extensive means...
(The President cut the speaker off)
