Mr President, as a member of the Group of the Greens/European Free Alliance, I should like to thank the rapporteur.
I think we have a fairly broad consensus on this ALTENER programme.
I also hope that, in the negotiations with the Council, he is able to get at least the EUR 81.1 million we have been talking about.
It is important, however, that, one day before the debate here in Parliament on the Kyoto follow-up conference in Bonn, and also a few days after the second-worst nuclear accident in history (this time in a hi-tech country), we should also place this ALTENER programme in a wider context.
It is against a particular background that we are framing energy policy: we want to protect the environment and we want to cut down on CO2 emissions, so we must examine in particular whether the liberalisation of the European electricity market, as is at present being implemented in a number of Member States, is not counter-productive.
Wholesale liberalisation in Germany is now already putting both biomass and solar projects under pressure and, in the social sphere, it will also, of course, result in our soon finding ourselves with a lot of little Michelin-style incidents because jobs are being rationalised out of existence so that power companies' share prices rise.
I think it is time to analyse this liberalisation - in both ecological and social terms - and then to consider what are the good approaches.
Personally, I particularly like the Danish model, where there is transparent access to the grid; there is an energy tax which corrects prices; there are clear targets for renewable energy sources; and there is an almost protected market.
We also need a protected market for renewable energy sources and for block-type thermal power stations.
In my view, merely national corrective measures or national "protective barriers" of an ecological and social nature are insufficient.
We must also consider, at a European level, how we might build in corrective features.
We naturally want this "feed-in directive" adopted very quickly.
I believe we need mechanisms in the field of renewable energy sources similar to those we have today for nuclear energy.
We need an export guarantee because, all in all, renewable energy sources mean many more jobs and better environmental protection.
Renewable energy sources should be worth that to us.
