Mr President, chairman of the Committee on Budgetary Control, my committee has also debated the matter of how we can guarantee to avoid committing formal errors.
Of course we have, in the appointment of the director of OLAF, a situation that is new to us.
A special procedure has been decided on.
At the same time, the decision does not cover every detail - understandably so I might say - and as such does not map out every single step.
Therefore, we must handle this together so that the existing procedures, which the Commission regards as formal procedures; i.e. the calling-in of the nomination committee and also Parliament' s right to conduct hearings of the candidates, and the role of the monitoring committee, can be included in the process.
The Commission now has to hand the recommendation of its nomination committee and this selection was made on the basis of the list of eleven candidates.
As such, there has therefore been a combination of procedures in this instance.
I can assure you that I will bring everything we have talked about in today' s discussion on how we are to proceed - you decided yesterday how all this is to be brought into line - into the Commission' s debate.
All I can say, and I really want to impress this on you again, is that I am very much in favour of us being able to reach this decision before the end of this year.
It is already relatively late, but the decision ought to be reached this year so as to enable the director to set to work without further delay, and I am actually very optimistic that we will be able to reach a sound decision here, on the basis of an interinstitutional procedure.
I would like to respond to Mrs Dührkop Dührkop as follows: of course the priorities this Parliament sets in the course of the budgetary process and for the budget itself are guiding principles for the Commission when it comes to the implementation stage of the budget.
That is why I referred to the fact that you could count on being informed in good time if difficulties should arise.
When it comes to the examples you have just cited, this is expenditure which I set great store by, I can assure you.
As such, I will, of course, ensure for my part, that foundations are laid here which will make it possible for this expenditure to actually be deployed.
But if, on the other hand, savings are made, on account of positive trends say, then there is no reason why we should not put our heads together and decide how this expenditure could be usefully re-deployed.
