Madam President, Mr President-in-Office of the Council, Tampere has been an important step forward, and I believe that great progress would be achieved by using these initiatives to create a genuine Europe of citizens in the areas of justice and internal affairs.
You will see, however, that, when it comes to translating these initiatives into practical terms, you will only achieve the relevant goals when the opportunities afforded by the Treaty of Amsterdam are taken to make decisions about these areas using majority voting.
This subject should therefore, perhaps, be addressed again in advance of the Intergovernmental Conference in Helsinki, for a decision about voting can in fact be made simply by the Council and without an Intergovernmental Conference.
The tasks of any policy on justice and internal affairs are twofold: to provide the citizen with security against crime, yes, but also against instances of interference by the State.
In a liberal community, both are tasks forming part of the relevant policy concerning justice and internal affairs.
Partly in connection with what has been achieved in Tampere, a Charter of Fundamental Rights is to be designed.
I should like to thank the Finnish Presidency of the Council for the way in which it has set this process in motion.
What now needs to happen is for the matter to take on a dynamic of its own, leading in the end to obligations on our part and to certain rights for our citizens.
This process ought not to give rise to revised new catalogues of fundamental rights for the individual Member States but to legal entitlements in respect of action taken by the European institutions and in respect of legislation affecting our citizens.
I believe we should achieve this in time.
At the same time, I should like to ask the Presidency of the Council to abide by the bill and give the Commission the chance, however, to submit, in preparation for the Intergovernmental Conference, its own proposal for how working methods might most sensibly be put into practice.
This is a really effective way of making progress.
Mr President-in-Office of the Council, let me make a final remark about the Pack Report which is to be voted on today.
The European Parliament has no institutional objections to the Report.
It would like only to display an efficient approach, and there is also the widest possible agreement on this matter.
With this point of view and in the light of the decision by the European Council concerning the competence of the Agency, agreements should be reached which, in time, achieve reconciliation throughout the Balkans and tie the region into the Stability Pact.
The Administrative Council should no longer have an advisory role in deciding on individual reconstruction projects.
In this connection, and with a view to achieving the greatest possible degree of efficiency, there is certainly broad agreement that a reasonable distribution of the workload between Pristina and Thessaloniki should be achieved.
It would be helpful if you could adopt a position on this matter which might make the decision at 12 o' clock easier for us to take.
