Mr President, at the beginning of this year, anyone who was no longer able to stand by and watch the murders, expulsions, looting and pillaging by the Serbian army and militia in Kosovo and for that reason spoke out in favour of so-called humanitarian intervention, must now wonder whether the war - that was unfortunately not waged against those who committed the crimes, but against the Yugoslavian population, - the war that we conducted for over two and a half months and that cost several billion euros, really brought about the result that we expected.
Have the murders, expulsions, looting and pillaging in Kosovo stopped?
Unfortunately not.
Unfortunately the crimes are continuing, with two differences.
First: the victims of the crimes are no longer the Kosovo Albanians, but Serbs, Roma and even Bosnians.
Secondly, it is no longer the Yugoslavian army in Kosovo, but our armies, which on the one hand are completing a fantastic undertaking in reconstruction, in protecting people, bringing law and order, in every respect and on the other hand are despairing because they are not able to really protect the people that they should protect and that they would have wanted to protect.
Who is to blame?
Unfortunately those for whom the international community waged a war, the first war on humanitarian grounds.
The former KLA - I say "former" because it supposedly no longer exists, because it was supposedly disarmed - believes that it has won a war and that it therefore has the right to commit exactly the same crimes as those who led to this war.
And that is the disgrace!
The international community has until now just looked on at what is happening.
We would assure the UN representative, Mr Kouchner, and his former colleagues, of our full support, if he would finally begin to set up an administration in Kosovo and not leave that to the bogus and illegitimate government of the KLA, even if the local authorities and the city and local councils were not formed by the KLA, but actually - if not other Kosovans - other UN officials could complete this work and the various different tasks that need to be performed in Kosovo.
