Mr President, President-in-Office of the Council Sasi, Commissioner Lamy, I wish to add my voice to the many here who have expressed their thanks to Mr Schwaiger.
He has presented a good report.
The report addresses the important points and says, above all, that we in principle support the Commission and the Council.
However, we are clearer about some points than the Commission and the Council have been so far.
I am speaking, for example, about environmental standards.
What we want, Commissioner, President-in-Office of the Council, is for attention not only to be given to environmental damage caused in Europe by products from other countries.
We also want more thorough discussion of processes and production methods (PPM) in other countries and to talk not only about labelling but also about how, through trade sanctions, we can prevent worldwide damage to the environment from taking place.
In fact, the Liberals have submitted a very good Amendment to the Committee, and this may be found as number 47 in the resolution we have before us.
It is a question of being able to impose trade sanctions relating to production methods whenever there is a danger of worldwide damage to the environment.
The WTO' s Shrimps-Turtle judgement at least presents an attempt to argue along these lines, for the Shrimps look alike whether or not they have been caught in accordance with the rules concerning animal protection.
The WTO has said: in principle, this can be discussed.
It is important that we also discuss climate protection in this context, for the world decided in Rio in 1992 and in Kyoto in 1997 that this is a huge problem and that we must tackle it together.
There must, therefore, also be opportunities to implement climate protection measures in the WTO.
To conclude, I should like to support all those who have come out in favour of a courageous position in respect of the least developed countries, the LLDC.
I should like, however, to emphasise that these are not only ACP countries but that there are also many countries outside the ACP area to which we must provide better support.
I am among those who argue that all products should be completely free from customs duties and that we should not be defining so-called sensitive products, only then to make exceptions of them again.
