Mr President, Commissioner, competitiveness is theme number 1 in Europe.
Every company, every entrepreneur, is of course out principally to create a monopoly.
The entrepreneur himself or company itself would like to have a monopoly.
Suppliers and customers are naturally opposed to this so that, here too, there is pressure in the direction of a market economy.
I believe - and this is what makes it so interesting - that the market economy is there in the first place for the benefit of the consumer and therefore stands in the way of monopolists.
The consumer creates jobs through his decision to purchase products and services which are of use to him.
I believe that this triangle of success we have, with the company on the one side with its owners and shareholders, the employees on the second side and the consumers on the third side just has to be successful.
Everyone must gain some advantage.
We must see to it that there is a win-win situation here and that everyone benefits when products and services are offered which are bought by consumers.
What we need as a priority here is a development initiative.
We must ensure that we see electronic commerce and many other technologies introduced quickly and efficiently.
We need a dramatically strengthened and improved infrastructure.
In very many areas in this regard, we are still limping along behind.
Finally, research too.
We are discussing minimum amounts for research here.
Having new and efficient products, however, is precisely what the consumer values.
This is where we also need a new culture at European level.
In the European social partnership - and here I should like to support Hans-Peter Martin - we need new emphases which permit a win-win situation arising for all three types of participant: namely for companies, employees and consumers.
In Europe too, then, we shall have the chance to live in prosperity in the future.
If today we consider the enlargement of the European Union, then prosperity is one of the central and most important questions in connection with enlargement as well.
I should like to ask the Commissioner to ensure that, where the European budget too is concerned, we have a situation in which more money is put into budget lines which promote jobs.
