Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, for about two years now, ever since the Kyoto conference, we have been discussing how our commitments to cut CO2 emissions can be transposedinto European law.
Consumer information and awareness-raising are the third pillar of our strategy, alongside the environmentalagreement with car manufacturers and tax measures.
I believe that the common position submitted to us by the Council fully addresses this third requirement.
It is well balanced and takes account of the main requests made by the European Parliament at first reading - let me say that again, the main points.
Because we should be really grateful to the Council, and I am not just saying this to get a laugh, that so many of Parliament' s requests from first reading have been weeded out, given that they were adopted in a fit of over-zealousness and did not have my approval.
Mr Lange, I hope you will not take offence if I say that this request regarding petrol and fuel consumption in independent vehicle heaters and air-conditioning units is one of these.
If we start trying to limit that certain level of luxury, that element of quality that people have become accustomed to, we will just irritate consumers.
We should not be deterred by this.
That is why I am happy that this directive is now somewhat clearer and that requests like this have been taken out.
I think that we should limit our legislative texts to essential and comprehensible points, and that also applies to this directive.
This is all the more relevant given that in future we will increasingly have to deal with complex and technical subjects.
In Strasbourg we have plans for a similar directive on just such technical processes.
The directive we are discussing is certainly an important part of our strategy for combating CO2 emissions.
However, I think that a certain scepticism about its effectiveness is not out of place.
I have my doubts about whether publishing consumption and exhaust gas figures will really influence consumers in their purchasing decisions.
Consumption figures are important anyway at a time of rising petrol prices.
In order words, customers will inform themselves out of pure self-interest.
I also believe that mentioning CO2 emissions has more to do with awareness-raising.
For me, that is also one of the key points of this directive: raising consumers' awareness of the problem, so that they worry a little more about reducing CO2 emissions when it comes to their favourite toy, their car, and so that this becomes part of their way of thinking.
Because if we are really to achieve Kyoto' s ambitious targets, then we all need to get involved, not just governments!
So what am I driving at here?
As the legislature of the European Union, we will in future continue to have no option but to set clear limit values and time limits for achieving significant reductions in emissions.
Some Member States have limited ambitions in this respect.
I believe, Commissioner, that we still have some persuading to do together.
Finally, I would like to thank the rapporteur for taking on this report.
I am very grateful to him for that and he has our support.
I do not think there are any more problems!
