Mr President, the European Parliament was, and is, the driving force behind the implementation of the Beijing Action Platform, as the Commissioner has just acknowledged.
We considered the fourth action programme on equal opportunities to be the consequence of it.
We have tried to include the gender mainstreaming policy in all policy areas.
We have launched specific measures such as those to combat violence against women.
I was present as rapporteur for the European Parliament at both the NGO Conference in Beijing and at the Intergovernmental Conference of the 189 countries and I have, of course, followed developments over the last five years very closely, both in the European Union and in the developing countries.
I recall that the EU spoke out for women with one voice under the Spanish Presidency of the Council and was able during negotiations to argue important points and include them in the Action Platform from this position of strength.
That was the happy experience.
That the Members of the European Parliament had an undetermined status and were not fully integrated in the European delegation was the less happy experience.
The situation was different at subsequent negotiations, for example, at the WTO in Seattle.
We should therefore continue to follow this new practice at future international conferences.
This brings me to my specific question, which is directed mainly at the Council, and we expect an equally specific answer: what status will MEPs have at the next conference, the Beijing plus 5 Conference in New York?
We are already involved with the Commission in preparing the content for the conference in February but we are still waiting for a clear message from the Council, since the question of if and how many members are to represent the European Parliament in New York has not yet been clarified.
Time is running out.
The ECE Conference, i.e. the UN Commission on Europe, is being held in Geneva in January and it is not clear whether we have been included in the delegation to it.
We need a straight answer here today.
Preparation of the content by the Commission, in which we have been included, is well under way.
Firstly, the content of the twelve crucial areas defined in the Action Platform is being dealt with.
Secondly, strategies are being clearly discussed.
We do not want to formulate new objectives; what we want is a clear analysis and evaluation of where progress has been made in our Member States, where we should concentrate and where we should step up efforts so that the European Union can achieve progress in New York for the women of Europe and throughout the world?
