Mr President, with the report of my colleagues, Mr Dimitrakopoulos and Mr Leinen, Parliament is delivering a first opinion on the tasks of the next Intergovernmental Conference.
Without going into all the details, the framework has now been outlined for the challenge which the Europe of the near future has to meet if it is to be better understood and accepted by its citizens.
The biggest challenge is undoubtedly presented by the enlargement of the Union, which is something we affirm and want to see.
This enlargement to include more than 20 Member States - perhaps 30 in a number of years' time - could lead to a strengthening of the Union but also, instead, to its weakening; to its strengthening because Europe is reinforcing its identity on the basis of its political and cultural history.
At the same time, however, such an increase in the number of actors on the European stage would throw up institutional problems and produce considerable operational weaknesses if relevant measures and radical reforms of the present system were not implemented in good time before enlargement.
The danger of crippling the decision-making ability of the legislature - of the Council and Parliament - as well as of making the Commission unable to translate the laws into effect is a significant problem.
A further problem lies in the difficulty of knowing how the Treaties are to be adapted to the ever more rapid development of Community realities.
The two rapporteurs have quite correctly set out these problems and linked them to specific areas of policy.
By means of the opinion it has delivered, the Committee on Budgetary Control wishes to answer the question of whether a further development of supervision, together with effective protection of Community finances, should be approached through the creation of a European public prosecution service, established on the basis of corpus juris but according to the spirit of subsidiarity, as also explained and clarified for us last week by Commissioner Barnier at the part-session in Brussels.
Overall, the draft presented here points in the right direction, and I should like to acknowledge my gratitude to both rapporteurs.
