Mr President, Mr President of the Commission, we are agreed that the EU should no longer be synonymous with rubbish and poison being found in foodstuffs.
Yet, a food agency does not create any security, and a White Paper ought not to be misused for the purpose of putting off long overdue decisions.
We need a change of direction in foodstuffs policy.
In the past, the Commission has made itself too much the mouthpiece of industry and all too often trampled on the precautionary principle.
You spoke of labelling from field to table.
All right, but what of the duty to label feedingstuffs?
What of the duty to label genetically-modified additives?
You know of the loophole in the Order on novel foods.
What of an Order on novel feedingstuffs, an Order relating to genetically-manufactured feedingstuffs?
What of a stamp of quality for foodstuffs free from genetic modification?
What is not needed is a mere shunting yard of a White Paper.
Rather, what we need here is a quick decision.
As long as two years ago, the Commission gave us an assurance about these matters.
Really, we ought to have had these regulations a long time ago.
What I am expecting from you here is a clear timetable and a clear statement as to when these legal decisions are to be taken.
In the field of PCBs, too, more limit values are needed.
We know from the EPA in the United States that there are further toxic PCBs.
We also need clear rules and bans.
It is not acceptable that you should demand more safety in the field of antibiotics too when, at the same time, the Commission permits antibiotics in additives.
As we have already been reminded, we must finally have a clear positive list in the field of pesticides as well.
May I say one more thing.
It is completely irresponsible to speak of industry' s accepting responsibility for its own actions while it postpones decisions about environmental and risk liability.
We in the European Parliament, and it is to the big groups that I am addressing this remark, must...
(The President cut the speaker off)
