Mr President, on behalf of the Group of the European People' s Party/European Democrats, I would like to thank the rapporteur and to welcome this directive.
We all ask that the formal procedure following Parliament' s decision be carried out as quickly as possible, and that the directive be quickly transposed so that we can successfully conclude this discussion process which was initiated by the Commission in 1994.
This directive is significant in four ways.
It is significant in terms of industrial policy, competition policy, security policy and consumer policy.
This directive relates to all four policy areas.
We can all still remember the dramatic accidents that have taken place on and as a result of cableway installations.
They are largely responsible for the fact that calls for uniform safety standards have become more vociferous.
These calls have also become increasingly topical.
I am therefore very pleased, and the preceding speaker also touched on this matter briefly, that it will not only apply to those people who are actually in the cable car, but also to those who disembark at the station or who are waiting to depart.
Uniform Europe-wide safety standards are necessary in order to protect both the safety of passengers and also the competitiveness of the European cableways industry in the international market.
Cableway installations have undergone highly specialised, state-of-the-art improvements.
Cableways are an important economic factor in many Member States, particularly in the Alpine region.
I am pleased to be able to refer to the fact, in my maiden speech to this House in plenary session, that in my own country, Austria, cableways are a cornerstone of tourism and consequently, of the Austrian national economy.
I would just like to emphasise the importance of this directive.
In my country alone, we have nine million passengers who take around 526 million trips with 255 cableway companies and, in economic terms, this represents a total turnover of 10.8 billion Austrian schillings.
The directive represents a competitive advantage and raises the competitiveness of European and particularly Austrian cableway companies.
The directive is aiming to harmonise safety standards for passengers.
It aims to boost the free movement of goods, that is to say the internal market, as far as the cableway industry is concerned.
It will consolidate this sector as an integral part of the national economy.
Uniform and simplified procedures, a relieving of the burden on the authorities as well as the removal of procedural steps are all part of this directive.
I welcome the fact that, by means of this directive, it is going to be possible to bring an initiative that was introduced during the Austrian Presidency to a successful conclusion in terms of consumer safety and competitiveness.
