Mr President, my group fundamentally welcomes the Agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the European Community and the People' s Republic of China.
The agreement forms part of the Commission' s policy, as described in various Commission communications in recent years.
China also needs to be included in the international research and development framework, and political and economic links need to be developed.
The EU and China need to conclude a separate scientific and technological agreement in order to improve and extend cooperation in fields such as energy, the environment, life sciences, abiotic sciences, transport, telematics, information technology and communications.
This will serve to strengthen the presence of European economic actors in China.
All the Commission representatives who know me will be aware that it is unusual for me to quote their documents at such length!
Not only will the presence of European economic actors in China be strengthened in this way, but also the presence of Chinese research institutions in the EU.
I accordingly believe that this cooperation will be of great benefit to both sides, and that the democratic process can in this way also be promoted through greater cooperation and an enhanced dialogue.
We are working on the assumption that the agreement could contribute to greater freedom of thought.
It is certainly unheard of for scientists to be persecuted for talking about science.
However, we do know that in many cases freedom of expression cannot always be taken for granted and I now appeal to China to move towards greater democracy and openness in this area.
However, on behalf of my group I would like to emphasise that we are not in agreement with the rapporteur' s conclusions, as described in his explanatory statement.
However, it is not customary for Parliament to vote on explanatory statements.
So we will vote for the report, which consists of one sentence.
But please do not assume, Mr Gahrton, that your statement reflects the views of this House.
At best it represents the views of a small part of it.
