Mr President, I would like to start by saying that it is very difficult for me to get on with my work here in Strasbourg owing to the fact that for the second time now, my case of documents has failed to reach my office.
I would like to thank all those involved in the budgetary procedure for their work, which had to be executed with very little room for manoeuvre and was intended to send out a message to all the citizens of Europe.
We are able to do this as far as Category 3 is concerned, which relates to internal policies.
The youth programme, the SOCRATES programme, the cultural programme and issues relating to women and equality all provide us with the opportunity to make clear to the citizens what we want to achieve.
A mistake was made in the case of Category 3, that is to say, when the vote took place in the Committee on Budgets an amendment was adopted by a very slim majority which could cause considerable damage if it is not corrected.
The Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities submitted a remark and a budget for the European Women' s Lobby in line A-3037, as it did the previous year, but the remark now states that this line is to be opened to all non-governmental organisations.
May I remind you that we as a parliament have supported this umbrella organisation for European women' s organisations and have entrusted it with the task of implementing the plan of action agreed in Peking at non-governmental organisation level, and I think it would be disastrous if just any women' s organisation could have a share in this budget.
That is why I would ask you all to correct the amendment again and to vote against Amendment No 443 and in favour of the amendment tabled by the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities.
We weighed the situation up very carefully and exercised great restraint as regards the amendments relating to gender mainstreaming and the question of firmly establishing equal opportunities in all European policies.
I would particularly ask the rapporteur to take this into account and to support the position of the Committee on Women' s Rights and Equal Opportunities.
