Mr President, the European Union is about to take a major decision which may change relations with Turkey radically.
The Commission has proposed that Turkey should be accorded candidate status.
If the Council in Helsinki accepts this proposal, it would lay the foundations in Turkey for a new form of dialogue with the European Union, in that Ankara would then have the prospect of future membership.
It would also mean that the Union would have to keep its promises.
The rapporteur' s proposals allow the mistakes of 1995 to be corrected, when the European Union intensified relations with Turkey, without guaranteeing the necessary financial aid.
Financial aid for Turkey cannot be divorced from obligations in the fields of social development and democracy, rule of law and respect for human and minority rights.
This is referred to equally in both reports because it is important that participation in the European economic system should go hand in glove with democratic development.
Another important point is the involvement of the European Parliament.
Its debates can provide further transparency and raise the political and democratic profile of relations between the European Union and Turkey.
The case of Öçalan - I am referring to the death penalty - raises the question of how we will have to deal with such issues in the future.
There can be only one response from all the political groups in this House and that is the demand that capital punishment be abolished.
It is not a question of making an angel of peace of Öçalan.
On the contrary, we need to demonstrate that respect for human rights means much more than empty rhetoric, of course it does, and not just in Turkey.
This House should call on Turkey to comply with the judgement of the European Court of Human Rights, which is incompatible with the execution of Öçalan.
I can read Turkish and I am pleased that, so far, I have seen no reports of negative reactions from the government in Ankara in the Turkish press or in other Turkish media.
That gives me reason to hope.
Despite everything said about Turkey today, it is important for us to pursue the new Turkish policy of the European Union.
In this sense we support the two reports as a contribution to the democratisation of Turkey.
