Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, budgetary discipline plays an important part in all policy areas so that we can guarantee a balanced budget in the long term.
Of course, this is particularly important in those policy areas that are of great budgetary significance in quantitative terms, and the agricultural sector is still the largest sector when it comes to expenditure.
At the Berlin Summit and then in the interinstitutional agreement, the Council, Parliament and the Commission agreed to fix the ceilings on agricultural expenditure, and thus to stabilise the agricultural share in the overall budget in the long term.
In addition, the European Parliament, the Council and the Commission decided that there should be no interchangeability between the expenditure categories for the market regulation measures in the agricultural sector and the measures for rural development.
The Commission' s proposal aims in essence to guarantee that the ceilings of both sub-sections can be strictly adhered to.
This is more difficult to achieve where the Guarantee Fund is concerned because there may be considerable fluctuations as a function of production and price trends.
It is necessary, under such conditions, for the Commission to be able to have recourse to suitable measures when it becomes apparent, in the course of preparation of the budget or its implementation, that the ceilings are being exceeded or are at risk of being exceeded.
In fact the first corresponding revision of budget 2000 has already been carried out now as per the relevant procedure, because it became apparent that unless an across-the-board cut was carried out, this ceiling would, under certain circumstances, have been exceeded.
I welcome the fact that in principle, Parliament supports the procedure proposed by the Commission for maintaining the ceilings.
I note that Parliament would like to be able to fall back on the revision of the Financial Perspective should the need arise.
Allow me to say in response that the Commission would only entertain the idea of undertaking a revision of the Financial Perspective in the event of truly unforeseen needs arising.
What is important is that the reform steps for agricultural policy introduced in Agenda 2000 should also find expression in the Union' s budget, and we need a sound decision on budgetary discipline to this end.
