Mr President, I believe that the gentleman who spoke before me is right about one point.
If it were in fact the case that the market could regulate itself, then we should not today be speaking about Michelin.
It is also a spectacular mistake, Mr Pronk, to believe that this is not an issue for this House.
We spoke here a number of years ago about Renault, too, and also quite rightly.
7,500 jobs are being destroyed, and that is an especially negative record for a company to set here.
Secondly, we must talk about this matter here because employees in Europe expect us, the European Union, to direct the process of globalisation and to regulate necessary modernisation and companies' adjustments to the market in intelligent ways, that is to say in ways which take the social contract into account.
The European Union has a number of directives for doing this which, however, are being applied all too cautiously here.
It seems to me to be symptomatic of Michelin' s policy as a company that it is only at the end of this year that it has established a European Works Committee.
There will be further economic changes in the EU but, for us Social Democrats, it should go without saying that employees and their unions are to be included in this process, that they are to be informed of developments in good time and that their proposals are to be examined seriously.
If, Commissioner, you will be sharpening the tools available to the EU, we shall most certainly support you and accompany you in the process.
I should like to express my thanks to those of Michelin' s employees who are here today.
I should also like to have seen that kind of commitment from the owners.
A rise in profits for the first six months of over 17% is really excellent, but these profits ought to be invested by the companies in new products, new environmentally friendly production methods and, above all, in employee training too.
That would be a contribution to social peace, and the share markets would then have every good reason to see an increase in value.
