Madam President, just to clarify something to start with: We have been discussing the Eurodac report, that is to say, a system of control on the Member States' responsibility for dealing with asylum and combating asylum abuse, for almost a year now and in spring this year the Social Democrats and the Greens, and others at the last minute, although they had previously been in favour of the introduction of the system, changed tack and came out against the introduction of Eurodac, then in the form of the Convention and the Protocol.
That was out of the question and an unreasonable demand, because we need solutions.
Now, in the autumn, we have opened the debate with a Council Regulation.
We have discussed it at length in the Committee and are in full agreement with the Social Democrats and with the others, with the exception of the Greens who want to fight the system as a whole, that we need Eurodac.
On the vote in the Committee there were no proposals for amendment, but rather full agreement with the Social Democrats and also with the Liberals and with all the others that Eurodac must be set up.
We must have this discussion and bring it to a conclusion.
That means that the same might happen as in the spring, that the Social Democrats will suddenly change tack for obscure reasons and suddenly vote against Eurodac, then they would bear the entire responsibility for us failing to have a well-ordered European system dealing with asylum or a system to combat abuse.
They would bear the sole political responsibility for this.
(Applause)
If this report is going to be discussed then I would ask that we ensure that it be discussed today and that we also vote on it today.
That must be our goal.
We would only allow one exception to that.
If against all expectations it does not come to that and the only alternative we had was to vote on it tomorrow, then it would be necessary to hold the vote in plenary sitting.
I would therefore ask you to ensure that we can discuss it and vote on it today, because there is no time to lose.
We need a system for a common asylum procedure and to combat abuse in Europe and I have no time for party political games to the detriment of this issue.
(Applause)
