Mr President, wealth is just as unevenly distributed throughout the world as it ever has been.
In the last five years, since the WTO was set up, the differences have become even more marked, and those countries which cannot count themselves amongst the leading industrial nations have become even more dependent.
That is why we do not need new rounds on liberalisation, instead we need a fundamental analysis and evaluation of the effects of the Uruguay Round on countries, people and the environment.
The WTO Round of Ministers is the right place for this.
A fundamental reform of the institution itself is also called for.
Transparency, democratic control and the equal participation of all countries, amongst other things, must be guaranteed.
Now on the subject of agriculture: if we stay on our current course, as the Commission and the USA would like, farmers with small- and medium-sized holdings will be the ones to suffer, both here and also in developing countries.
They cannot be made to compete with one another.
That is why better conditions for entering the market must be obtained for developing countries and at the same time, all export subsidies for farm products from the EU should be withdrawn.
The recognition of safeguarding food as a 'non trade concern' according to Article 20 of the Agreement on Agriculture must also be accepted.
A whole raft of Southern countries is quite rightly demanding a renegotiation of the TRIPs Agreement because they are losing the right to use their own resources.
We are also completely against the patenting of living things.
We must also refuse to accept any agreement similar to the MAI agreement on investments alone at a WTO level.
Other international institutions such as the UN and the ILU must unite on this issue.
By combining their forces they would be able to say that the welfare of all people will come to the fore in Seattle, and not the interests of big companies, of the rich and powerful such as well as the interests of the European Union and various elites and oligarchies.
The Commission should not accept a mandate for negotiation which goes against human rights, social rights and the environment.
What developing countries need, as they are not equally strong economic partners, is a special position laid down by agreement, and this should be the rule, not the exception.
It is not only to them that we owe this, but also to all of us here.
