Mr President, Commissioner, as far as the labelling of beef is concerned, we are not debating the substance here today but the timetable, which needs to be laid down.
We are also debating the highly topical issue of the Council' s approach and the Commission' s behaviour and position.
The Commission has submitted two proposals to us on beef labelling, one which makes beef labelling compulsory in Member States as of 1 January 2001 and one which is drafted as a transitional regulation up to 31 December 2000, i.e. voluntary labelling.
The timetable submitted by the Commission must be rejected in the interests of the consumer.
Mr Kindermann has submitted what I consider to be a convincing timetable.
The European Parliament should agree to voluntary labelling up to 31 August 2000, with compulsory labelling to be introduced as quickly as possible.
Only in this way can we send out a clear signal to anxious consumers.
There can be no question of continuing to allow the slowest link in the chain to set the pace.
Nor can there be any question of the new Commission continuing to hide behind what to me look very like the old delaying tactics.
The delay in the implementation of the regulation cannot be ascribed solely to the Commission and individual Member States.
In other words, this approach would have been totally unnecessary if the Commission had acted promptly at the time.
Then there is the point that the applicable Regulation 820/97 still contains the obligation to introduce the compulsory system by 1 January 2000.
The Commission' s excuse for the delay is that the Member States were late sending in the necessary reports on the implementation of the labelling system.
I really do wonder if the model pupils in the Member States are again being punished here.
We must not tolerate this cat-and-mouse game by the Commission any longer!
You should know, Mr Byrne, that none of us can afford to put on such airs and graces.
You should bear in mind that we really want to decide on this proposal under the codecision procedure.
Consumer interests must come first.
Consequently, we should, in my opinion, support the timetable suggested by Mr Kindermann in tomorrow' s vote.
With this timetable we really can send a signal to our anxious consumers and we should all bear in mind that we sit here as the representatives of the people, that we have been elected by the consumers and that it is we Members of Parliament who must lay ourselves open time and again to discussions with our citizens.
I have the impression that the Council has already distanced itself from them by quite some way.
