Mr President, Commissioner, in April the PPE Group voted for the legislative resolution on the directive on a European framework for informing and consulting workers in the Member States.
Partnership and subsidiarity are the hallmark of the Parliament and Commission proposals.
Companies should be provided with a tailor-made solution for informing and consulting workers, based on agreement between the two sides of industry.
One of Parliament' s proposals is that existing national workers' organisations must be involved in drawing up this agreement.
It would be unthinkable to have an agreement that local works councils had not been involved in shaping!
Although the Commission' s initial reaction to the various amendments was positive, they have not yet put forward an amended proposal, as you yourself have said.
You cannot just put everything that was so carefully worked out in Parliament on ice!
It is high time that the right conditions for a Council common position were created.
There is obviously a lack of political will in the Council.
How does the Commission view the situation, Commissioner?
I did not entirely follow you.
Does the Commission believe that the Finnish Presidency and possibly also the forthcoming Portuguese Presidency should be concerned that the United Kingdom, for example, might switch back to the opposition camp in the dispute over workers' participation rights in the European Company, which has not yet been created?
After all, it is an open secret that the British Government was only persuaded to support a European Company with minimum participation rights because of a promise to hold back on the directive on information and consultation for one year.
When we have considered examples of company restructuring in this Chamber, we have often complained about management' s failure to provide information in good time, as with Hoover, Renault and Michelin.
But we have some good news now.
This relates to the success story of the directive on the European Works Council.
For it to work well, national workers' organisations at local level should be able to forward their information to the European Works Council, and they should have sufficient rights to react in good time.
This directive will ensure that.
I would like to state my question even more clearly, Commissioner: was I right in understanding you to say that the Commission does not intend to present an amended proposal before the end of this year?
I would deeply regret that.
Timely information for workers means transparency, which in turn creates confidence and avoids friction in European companies.
Employers and employees stand to gain from this in equal measure.
