Mr President, Commissioner, I am reminded in this context of the saying: they cannot see the wood for the trees.
It is reasonable that this directive needs to be updated as a result of the accession of new Member States and the development of the single market and forest research.
It is reasonable that EU labelling should be harmonised in order to facilitate trade within the EU and with the OECD.
But the directive takes no account of the differing needs of the Member States.
In the view of our specialists in Germany, in the view of the German forestry industry and the forest nursery industry, this new directive will have a lasting negative impact.
Monitoring should be confined to forest undertakings and should not, as the report provides, apply to all undertakings, as these requirements would then affect undertakings which produce no forest reproductive material at all.
The willingness of successive farmers to plant forests in my region is receding sharply.
This increasing prevalent basic attitude is dictated by financial considerations.
I would just like to say to the House that I know what I am talking about because the forest economy has longed played an important role in our own undertaking and I would like in this context to point out the life-threatening situation in the Germany forest nurseries.
Given the change in forestry in my country towards natural regeneration, massive cutbacks in planting requirements and a lack of public funds, I feel that I really must draw the House' s attention to this.
The monitoring system is now supposed to be up and running by 2003.
Our experts tell me that they think this deadline is too short.
The directive is unacceptable in this respect; it fails to take account of geographical and regional differences within the EU.
In northern countries we have to cope with huge forest areas with a single registration number, so that the new regulation holds no problem whatsoever in store for these areas.
I would like to more or less keep to my allotted time, but we should bear in mind during the overall debate that we must not only take account of the Nordic point of view and we must not only consider the enthusiasm of mountain lovers in Austria; we in the middle of the EU, and this includes Germany, set great store by open clauses, so that the whole system can remain truly practicable.
