Mr President, as I see it, the report before us today on reducing exhaust emissions from heavy goods vehicles serves to carry forward our efforts to improve air quality in Europe whilst preserving our citizens' mobility.
No one has said so yet, but that is guaranteed too.
I would like to thank the rapporteur for his work.
The report largely addresses the critical issues and fits in well with existing clean air legislation.
At this point I would like to make a general comment about the formal structure of the report.
I wonder if the technical criteria set out in the annex really are a matter for us to discuss as Members of Parliament.
Without expert guidance, the annexes are simply impenetrable for most of us - that has been my experience at least.
I think perhaps that in future, with technical reports like this, the Legal Service should bring them into line with what we have already proposed and agreed upon.
I would also like to comment on the most difficult and controversial points of this second reading, in terms of content.
I agree with the rapporteur that the transition to new standards should be done in a single stage.
By setting the deadline for 2006, we are demonstrating to the Council that we are willing to compromise, as we too will be making a concession as compared with the first reading.
I consider that the Council proposal, which does not provide for this to be introduced until 2008, is not acceptable here.
The directive on improving fuel quality and the catalytic converter technology now available make it possible for the Council and Parliament to come up with a truly ambitious project, without burdening industry and the transport sector with charges.
Let me remind you of our experience with the Auto-Oil programme for cars.
We stuck to our guns then, and it has now turned out that we took the right approach.
Another important point, as I see it, is to encourage re-equipping of older vehicles by means of fiscal and other incentives.
I think there is enormous potential here.
Heavy goods vehicles have a very long service life.
We should most definitely look at the fiscal options, even if the conversion only meets one criterion.
This is an area where a lot more can be achieved.
By and large, I am very pleased...
(The President cut the speaker off)
