Mr President, on 3 April of last year, this House thankfully approved by a large majority my report on internal security and on extending the European Union to the East and issued an order to establish a European Academy for Internal Security.
I am very happy and grateful that, in Tampere, the Council gave concrete expression to this order by establishing the European Police College.
I am also delighted that, on Monday in the Committee on Citizens' Freedoms and Rights, Justice and Home Affairs, Mr Vitorino gave notice that the Commission would soon be submitting a study concerning the way in which this project might be specifically put into practice, for I believe in fact that, when our police are trained together in the European spirit and when, as specified in the order, the police in the candidate countries are involved right from the beginning - and this idea too is traceable back to the proposal by this House - then we shall be taking an important, concrete step towards a Europe of justice and internal security.
I should be very grateful if this College could be located in the border area between the EU and the candidate countries, for example in East Bavaria.
Here, there are already a lot of examples of practical cooperation in the sphere of policing, and these might be useful in connection with this project.
I should like to address a second issue.
I am of the view that the Council has done well to set the course for a common policy on asylum and refugees but, unlike many members, I am not so unhappy about the fact that we still have some way to go in that direction, for a number of quite important elements are still missing.
Above all, I should like here to criticise the fact that, now as before, no specific sharing of the burden between individual countries has been arrived at.
It even looks as though any such personal distribution of the burden has receded into the far distance.
I am of the view, however, that, without such a sharing of the load, a common policy on asylum and refugees would be something which might be likened to a large roof erected only with a single supporting wall somewhere on the perimeter.
A roof of this kind would inevitably tumble down.
I consider a common asylum policy to which there is no definite key for sharing the load to be completely unthinkable.
We therefore ought to use the time we have here and do some further, specific work on this matter.
