Mr President, Commissioner, the European Union has set itself four major objectives.
Firstly, the necessary reforms within the institutions and the EU Member States.
Secondly, the enlargement of the European Union of the 15 and the associated discussion about the borders of Europe and the European Union, which we demanded, and which has been taken up by President Prodi.
Thirdly, the role of a self-assured, dynamic European Union in the world.
Fourthly, boosting public confidence in the realisation of these goals and in our work.
Extending a special financial aid package to Tajikistan is part of the growing responsibility we have for the democratic and peaceful development of world politics based on the recognition of human rights.
The extraordinary financial aid package for Armenia and Georgia adopted on 17 November 1997 also allowed for the possibility of providing Tajikistan with a similar aid package, as soon as this country - to amplify the comments made by Paul Rübig - reaches agreement with the IMF.
This agreement is now in place.
Following two emergency loans, which were granted after the conflict in December 1997 and April 1998, the IMF approved a three-year programme for Tajikistan worth USD 128 million in June 1998, in order to consolidate the stabilisation successes and achieve sustained growth.
In addition, on 11 December 1998, on the initiative of the IMF and the World Bank, a meeting of the Consultative Group was called in order to improve access to the financial facilities that these institutions provide for the benefit of Tajikistan and other Newly Independent States particularly hard hit by the external effects of the Russian crisis.
That is why it is right and proper, for the sake of our own needs, but also of our responsibility on the world political scene, which will undoubtedly increase, to lend our support to this report, together with the amendments today.
Finally, permit me, as I am the last speaker and also as I am a newcomer amongst the last speakers in this Parliament, to provide a little more food for thought.
Firstly, I would just like to make clear, and I believe I am expressing exactly what many people feel here, that I am pleased, that we are pleased, to be able to participate in this process here in this Parliament.
Secondly, although we know where there is still room for improvement, we are doing sound work that is growing in importance.
We can only do this work, however, because we are accompanied and supported by competent, committed, reliable colleagues and parliamentary employees in our groups and in our committees as well as in the course of everyday parliamentary life.
Thank you to all those who support us and assist us in our work!
I would like to express two further wishes, since we are fast approaching Christmas.
Let us make a greater success in the New Year of giving home affairs in the Member States a more European flavour.
Let us make a greater success in the New Year of fixing our work in the consciousness of the Member States and of the citizens.
On behalf of my group I would like to wish all those with whom I work and my fellow parliamentarians a Happy Christmas!
(Applause)
