Madam President, after careful consideration, I have the following to say about this report.
This Murphy report, which is a very important report, was adopted in the Committee on Industry, External Trade, Research and Energy last Monday evening here in Strasbourg.
That means that, as you all know, we are voting here in plenary in the same week.
I would like to point out that this leaves too little time for proper discussion by the groups of the results of the vote in committee.
In specific terms, this means that if the committee tables proposed amendments, for example to points 18 to 22, and we in our group, and I assume that the procedure is the same in the other groups, are unable to discuss them before today and would like to take a separate vote on the various points, then we are stuck from a procedural point of view, i.e. we can no longer request a separate vote.
Our group therefore takes the very decisive view, and I shall argue this in the Conference of Presidents, that we should only finalise reports here in Strasbourg which have already been dealt with during the normal session week of the committees in Brussels, so that the groups have sufficient time to discuss the reports.
This is in the interests of all the groups.
I submit this point here because I do not only want to argue it behind the closed doors of the Conference of Presidents.
I do not wish to criticise the Committee on Industry or its Chairman, that is not my intention.
On this matter we say, nonetheless, that our group will jointly vote in favour of the proposed amendments on which we must vote jointly, in the interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, so that we have a result for the conciliation procedure.
I would ask, Madam President, that we deal with this request once again at the Conference of Presidents this afternoon, so that we have a procedure here in the European Parliament which allows each and every member of the groups to influence the decision-making process here in the European Parliament.
(Applause)
