Mr President, firstly I should like to thank Mr Aparicio Sánchez for the excellent report and also confirm that he has the full support of my group.
Of course, the issues mentioned by Mr Ferber were discussed; we simply reached a different conclusion.
Firstly, Mr Ferber, I should like to say quite clearly that this is about transport policy.
Of course this is about transport policy.
You used the adjective "socialist" here and that is precisely the underlying problem.
Thank God the cat is now out of the bag and we know what this is all about.
What is happening here is that whenever a sensible policy is pursued, for example in the interests of the environment, it is simply labelled socialist, and the whole thing is thus discredited.
I believe that this is unacceptable.
This is about drafting transport policy.
Policy-making means taking decisions about the way in which the market can and should work, but of course under certain basic conditions.
This is what has happened here.
Secondly, this is about putting in place transitional arrangements.
As Mr Sánchez has already said, the transitional rules are a difficult phase in the process, in the course of which we have also tried to keep the Swiss on board.
The negotiations were long and hard.
I should like to say - not because it is a Commissioner from our side, I have expressed my thanks to enough Commissioners from the other side - that Mr Kinnock conducted tough and prolonged negotiations and that a good result emerged from them.
It is a good result, and you also mentioned yourself that this is not about making sure that some countries obtain assets, because if the countries cannot use these assets - as you put it - they go back to the European Commission - to Europe - and then have to be reallocated.
Speaking also as an Austrian, I would say that this is surely about reducing the amount of traffic transiting France and Austria.
This is of course not just traffic which originates in Austria or Germany; it is also traffic which has come, for example, from Greece and other parts of Europe.
For this reason I believe that this is a good report.
I should like to thank our colleague, Mr Aparicio Sánchez.
I also believe that the vote on the report here should be handled in the same way as it was in the committee.
