Mr President, I would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on his report and also to thank the members of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, who were really working in less than ideal conditions.
And by the same token I would like to thank the administration for their support, as this is an important subject, because despite the continuing high level of unemployment, unemployment and employment policy is generally not accorded the position it deserves here in the European Parliament and at European level.
That is both my own view and the view of the committee.
Why are we so reluctant, when it is perfectly simple to express this issue in terms of quantifiable defined employment policy objectives, in training at least.
This kind of action would at least have the effect of forcing the Member States to utilise all the resources at their disposal to reduce unemployment.
And as we are actually talking about consolidating the guidelines here, continuity of the employment-policy guidelines is a good approach.
But efficient, performance-oriented action is only possible if these guidelines reflect an assessment of results achieved.
In that way, the process of drawing up the guidelines could take account of a comparison of the best methods found in the individual Member States, so that successful strategies could be applied throughout Europe.
In this context it is also important, as Mr Menrad has already just indicated, to have access to reliable quantitative data as a basis for comparison and trend analysis.
There is no miracle cure that will make unemployment disappear overnight.
It is more likely that a combination of different options and factors will be successful.
As I see it, alongside training one important option is a targeted reduction in charges in areas which have been shown to create jobs.
SMEs can play a key role here, as they make an important contribution to job creation and generally have enormous development potential, which must be promoted by creating optimum conditions.
Amongst these conditions are a simplification of administrative procedures and specific improvement of access to information sources and research programmes.
The services sector is above all widely recognised as the sector with the greatest potential for job creation.
The employment guidelines should be an incentive for Member States to create jobs.
But they should not degenerate into political dirigisme with companies subject to greater burdens than they can tolerate.
Instead, the objective of the guidelines should be to induce Member States to adopt a proactive employment policy creating an ideal framework for businesses.
With that in mind, we in any case hope that we will increase the potential to create jobs, with less subsidised public sector jobs.
The opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs is short and to the point, because we thought that was what was expected of us in this case.
We did not see it as being our role to produce an expert report, or to recite a political creed, but rather to provide the Member States with reliable, correct and simple guidelines and make a contribution in that way.
