Mr President, Commissioner, I should like to confine myself to three points.
There is much which needs to be said, but my colleagues have already contributed a great deal to the debate on fixed book prices.
As far as I am concerned, the first point is that we need to stress the importance of the specialist book trade, we need to build on quality, not quantity, we are in immediate need of a specialist trade, a supply of specialist literature, as far as the sciences and technical books are concerned, and of personal service and advice.
I also believe that it is in the interests of the promotion of SMEs, the preservation of which is an important factor in the European Union, and which is practised in the case of the specialist book trade in a very positive and demonstrative manner.
Secondly, I think it is very important to refer to the cross-border language area.
We are always talking about the diversity of European culture and about the diversity of languages, which are growing together but which still need to retain their own identity.
It is therefore imperative to be able to sell these books easily across borders.
The most important point for me is the cultural aspect of books and society' s obligation towards literature and art; it is precisely now, in an era of new media, that books need to be specially promoted and supported.
Art and culture are, as we know, a very important economic factor and so therefore are books.
When we look at printers, publishers, translators, the trade and much more besides, then we know how important the book trade is, how important art is, including for employment.
That should not mean, however, that we regard art and culture as purely economic factors.
Art and culture need social support.
They are a necessity, we have a responsibility towards them and we cannot deal with them in that respect under the normal rules of competition.
I should therefore like to urge you, Commissioner, to put the interests of large undertakings after culture, cultural diversity and the specialist trade.
Make your decision in the case of books in accordance with the principles of French law and allow the German and Austrian book trade sufficient time to adapt fixed book prices to these principles.
I believe that this will fulfil a very important cultural brief, whereby the economy is perhaps only left standing temporarily.
I think that this, too, is a gain.
