Madam President, it is as the Commission says in its explanatory statement.
This proposal on the common organisation of the markets in fisheries and aquaculture products is of central importance for the common fisheries policy in the European Union.
If we take a look at the general aims in the explanatory statement of the proposal, then we will see that we can give these our full and unequivocal support.
Responsible stock management, improving the competitiveness of the sector, liberalisation of the market etc.
I am completely in favour of all these statements.
What does give cause for concern though is the question as to which methods the Commission, and in particular the rapporteur, intend to employ in their efforts to maintain these principles.
I would like to comment just on three points.
Firstly, I consider that, in future, one issue to be addressed will be that of establishing extensive, direct grants for the fisheries sector, as previous regulations failed to do.
Now, of course, no one has anything against grants.
But still the question must be asked as to whether this approach will, in the long term, achieve the goal of boosting the competitiveness of the sector.
Even when a deadline is proposed, this always has certain consequences and so we should not rule out maintaining this state of affairs indefinitely.
In my view, we could look to the structural funds policy for a more suitable option.
Secondly, I wholeheartedly endorse the efforts being made to adapt the regime governing trade with third countries.
The only question in this respect is whether they actually go far enough.
After all, the fact of the matter is that we in the EU are highly dependent on imports.
To a certain extent, the fish processing industry is dependent on tariff reduction and suspension arrangements for its survival.
Thirdly, I am unable to support the rapporteur in her desire to include aquaculture products in the intervention regime.
Notwithstanding all the efforts made on the part of the rapporteur, who has, as always, produced a thorough piece of work in order to improve the Commission' s proposal - and I have a great deal of respect for that - I am only able to lend my support to some of her conclusions.
