Mr President, I believe that this criminal court is of tremendous importance and I should like to say to Mrs Thors that the Member States of the European Union should do their own homework before asking others to do it for us.
That does not mean that others should not do theirs, it means that we must ensure as a matter of urgency that this criminal court is up and running soon.
There are two reasons for this.
The first reason is prevention.
I was at a conference held by our group a few days ago in Banja Luka.
There was much to see that was encouraging, such as the Serbian opposition, which has got off to an auspicious start.
However, I also met a man who sat trembling with fear as he related all the crimes which he had committed in this period in the Republic of Srpska.
I found the conversation extremely interesting because it more or less proved that, if he had known that he might appear before an international criminal court, he might perhaps have behaved differently.
I think that this preventative aspect is tremendously important, not on account of the criminals at the top, those who possess criminal energy which transcends everything, but on account of the criminals at second or third remove who must know that, in the end, they cannot escape punishment for their crimes, even if they considered themselves as temporary vicarious agents of very powerful figures.
That is why this criminal court is important for prevention, but it is also essential for another reason.
Right is right and wrong is wrong, irrespective of who has committed it, and the problem facing specific criminal courts is that they are always a little on the lookout for triumphant justice.
It is therefore extremely important for there to be a uniform criminal law against genocide and crimes against humanity throughout the world and for there to be uniform sentences and a common criminal court throughout the world, where everyone knows that wrong is always wrong and must be prosecuted, irrespective of the charge, irrespective of the ideology and irrespective of the nationality under which they appear in court.
Injustice is still injustice and injustice must not go unpunished.
This will avoid a situation in which the one-eyed is king and will help the concept of the law on which the European Union is founded to take hold throughout the world.
That is why action on this criminal court is one of the most important tasks facing the European Union in the immediate future.
