Mr President, Mr Byrne, you have presented the Council decision to us here today.
I agree with you that this is really the task of the Council, but I would like to refer to the seventh point, which says that there must be a labelling provision as soon as possible in consultation with the European Parliament.
I consider this passage to be cynical, given that this paper again excludes the European Parliament from codecision.
It is the same approach as that taken in 1997 when the Commission proposed codecision to us and Parliament and the Commission tabled a proposal.
We made a great deal of effort only to see the Council unanimously reject the proposal and decide without Parliament.
That meant that the Council had taken over responsibility.
The Council failed to fulfil its responsibility to implement what it itself had decided in Article 19, namely to issue implementing provisions on 1.1.2000.
Then Parliament was again taken to task and again it fulfilled its obligation.
We have not moaned and groaned, we have sat down and got on with the work - on the subject of which, Mr Papayannakis, heartfelt thanks to you as rapporteur and to Mr Kindermann, the rapporteur for the Committee on Agriculture, and to the administration and legal service.
Everyone has made an effort!
There was good coordination between the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on the Environment.
We negotiated with the Commission.
We put our cards on the table and said, excuse me, but we have a contribution to make to this procedure.
The result: do or die!
If you want to be part of the procedure, then you must divorce yourself from it as far as the content is concerned, otherwise we will not accept your case!
Mr Byrne, you said earlier that the decision now rests with Parliament.
This means that if we adopt what you have submitted to us, then it will go through.
If we table amendments which really are justified, over which we have taken time and trouble, then you will decide without us.
This is a snub to Parliament by the Council which we are not prepared to accept.
Now to the role of the Commission.
The Commission has told us that there is no longer any time for implementing provisions.
Please, indulge us!
We are indulgent and where does it get us?
Since the way in which we have amended it obviously does not suit you, you go on to the next proposal by introducing the compulsory system under Article 19, saying at the same time that the voluntary system will be extended by one year, thereby excluding Parliament from the process.
That too is a snub to Parliament which we cannot accept.
We take the view that Article 19 does not legally allow this postponement.
We have been involved in a procedure since the 1997 decision and we shall most probably find ourselves involved in a procedure again after this decision, which means, furthermore that it would be in the consumers' interest to draw up an urgently needed timetable with us in order to ensure the reasonable and timely application of this compulsory labelling system.
