Mr President, Commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this directive forms part of the EU' s overall strategy for reducing CO2 emissions from transport, which is based on four pillars: consumer information, covered by this directive, tax incentives at Member State level, monitoring CO2 emissions from cars and the agreement between the Commission and the car industry.
The directive does not entirely match Parliament' s expectations in all areas.
Nevertheless, I can go along with the rapporteur, and would like to thank him for his work.
We want to see this directive implemented as soon as possible.
That is why we do not want a narrow-minded debate here today.
For example, we could talk about whether we need realistic values, as everyone knows that air-conditioning or independent vehicle heating has a huge impact on a car' s CO2 emissions.
Another obvious question is why, when someone from Denmark buys a car in Germany, or someone from France buys one in Italy, they do not get the same information about its design.
But we can put that to one side for now.
We want to have the directive as soon as possible.
I would, however, like to say something about the centrepiece of the strategy - the voluntary agreements between the Commission and the car industry.
If we really end up with 140 g in 2008 as intended, that would be excellent.
However, and Parliament has already expressed its opinion on this at various critical junctures, there are certain risks.
Parliament, and in particular of course the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, which was responsible for this, was not exactly pleased that it was not involved in the work on the negotiations and the agreement between the European Union and Japanese and Korean manufacturers.I think, Commissioner, that once again you clearly need to find a modus vivendi to make sure that the legislature - Parliament - is in future properly involved in the voluntary commitments.
The directive before us allows consumers to buy a car not only according to its horsepower, but also its CO2 emissions, by referring to a "top ten" list.
While in Bonn people are trying to shirk their responsibility and avoid reducing CO2 emissions, we here are doing things properly, establishing law and giving consumers the option of cutting CO2 emissions themselves!
