Mr President, Commissioner, I should first like to congratulate the rapporteur.
In his request to speak he referred to an important field, that is the institutional field and everything concerned with it.
What I should like to do is to refer to the opportunities that this system offers us.
The paper deals with combating the counterfeiting of travel documents.
It is a system for registration and comparison and thus an instrument that also helps to combat illegal entry and illegal immigration or the committing of criminal acts under a false identity.
That means that in order to be able to combat this phenomenon, which is partly a phenomenon of organised crime, we need new and very effective instruments.
One instrument is the system discussed here to combat the counterfeiting of travel documents.
After all, it should also help us to combat the crime of smuggling, which is on the increase.
If the figures are correct, then we have in the meantime learned that almost the same criminal earnings are obtained from smuggling as from drug crime and with considerably less risk than with drug-related crime.
I have been given access to figures that show that of the 400,000 to 500,000 illegal immigrants who come to the European Union every year, at least 200,000 are brought into the European Union by smugglers.
These counterfeit documents are very often used in smuggling cases.
In other areas too, where there is asylum abuse, there is counterfeiting of documents that are passed on from one person to another.
Unfortunately this has become part of a system.
In this regard, the system that Mr Newton Dunn described should be welcomed and supported.
I should, however, like to mention one point with which we are not happy.
That is the fact that in parallel we have developed the FADO system that allows us to compare original documents and counterfeit documents pictorially.
In reality, we therefore have two systems that should be amalgamated in one system.
Because rather than coming across counterfeit documents it is of course better if we have previously compared original and counterfeit documents via the FADO system.
That means that the aim should not be to run two parallel systems side by side, but to unite both of them in one system in the interests of efficiency.
Overall this action to combat counterfeit documents by comparing information that is not person-related is to be welcomed.
But we should try to be more efficient so that two systems do not run in parallel but are associated with each other so that something is achieved: so that with the Schengen information system and the EURODAC information system together we can contribute to a safer Europe.
