Mr President, Commissioner, firstly I too would like to wish you a speedy recovery from your cold.
I would also like to thank you for your earlier comments that nuclear power stations must be treated politically and economically, that we cannot expect them to be taken out of operation overnight and that we need an exit plan and time to implement it.
I think that Bohunice had sufficient time.
I must remind you of the Hermes Agreement under which Bohunice was to be removed from the network by the year 2000 at the latest.
In the light of this, I was extremely surprised by your laudatory acceptance of the new shutdown dates for Bohunice in 2006 and 2008.
I shall now come to my question, Commissioner.
A study by the Vienna Institute for Risk Research has been available since the summer.
Although it has become somewhat dusty sitting in the drawer of the Minister for Consumer Protection, Mrs Prammer, thanks to good cooperation with the environmental non-governmental organisations we became aware of this study and since last Thursday have had the opportunity to examine its contents in detail.
We need not discuss the safety defects in Bohunice, although perhaps I may raise just three of the most important points: as before, there is no replacement for the missing reinforced concrete and no pressure suppression system or other safety systems; the upgrading is inadequate seismologically; and the reactor pressure container is so brittle that the possibility of bursting cannot be excluded.
Now for something funny: in 1995 the UJD, the Slovak Nuclear Supervisory Authority, stopped issuing the standard multiannual operating licence and has been issuing provisional one-year extensions in order to compel the operators to carry out the necessary upgrading.
In vain it would seem!
The currently valid safety certificate for Bohunice expires in the year 2000.
In Austria, we say that from the year 2000, Bohunice will be spotless!
This study was submitted to the Slovak government at the beginning of September, but not to you, Commissioner.
This sort of neglect is not unique to Austrian politics; it also exists within the EU.
At the same time, however, Mrs Prammer' s office assures me that she did inform you of the unresolved safety issues relating to Bohunice V1.
So I ask you, Commissioner: were you aware of this study?
If you were, the behaviour of the Commission is scandalous!
If you were not, I would urge you to reconsider the facts.
If you still do not have the documents, I have brought them with me from Vienna.
You yourself have said, if I may quote you, that the final words have not yet been spoken.
Perhaps the Commission could also exchange words with the Slovak Nuclear Supervisory Authority.
We demand earlier and binding shutdown dates for Bohunice as well as clear assistance with the exit plan.
