Madam President, it distresses me greatly to have to contradict Mr von Wogau and it perhaps distresses me even more to have to contradict Mr Goepel, but let me take the formal part first.
The formal part is that we agreed and decided on the agenda this morning.
Mr von Wogau, you are a great stickler for procedure, even more so than I. I am perhaps on occasions somewhat more relaxed, which is why I think it is important that we keep to this agenda.
The second argument is that, apart from the fact that Mr Byrne will probably arrive at any moment, we should be clear Mr von Wogau - and this is a fact, as you well know - that nothing which we say today will come as a surprise to Mr Byrne.
We can always ask Mr Byrne questions afterwards.
As to the first part of what you said, Mr von Wogau, I would ask you to have a little respect for Members' engagements, i.e. the engagements of those of us who have perhaps put off other things in order to be present here and the engagements of other Members who have not yet had time to prepare for a different debate.
Now to what Mr Goepel said.
Mr Goepel, as to what the Council is doing, allow me to say to you quite plainly that that is the second part of the debate which is to follow, namely the report by Mr Papayannakis on beef labelling.
What the Council is doing is a matter of indifference to me.
This Parliament has the right of codecision on this proposal.
This Parliament has the right to decide alone.
If the Council thinks it should be present, fine.
If the Council does not think it should be present, so much the better, because we shall take the decision here which we consider to be right; if necessary, we may even go to the European Court of Justice and then decide.
Then we shall consider how to deal with the Council.
I do not need a Council representative here in order to tell them that I think they are undemocratic.
We can say that afterwards in the debate.
I think it is important that we proceed with the agenda as it now stands.
