Mr President, Mr Posselt, I would firstly like to support the basic assumption of your question, i.e. that there has been positive democratic development in Slovakia and that this positive democratic development must be supported and consolidated.
Directly after the Dzurinda Government took office at the end of October 1998, the Commission, on the initiative of my predecessor, set up a bilateral high-level working party to once again give Slovakia' s preparations for accession the necessary momentum.
This was seen as a significant sign of support for the democratic new beginning in Slovakia.
You can see this from the fact that no such group had ever been set up before for any other country.
After five sessions, this working party completed its activities in September with positive conclusions.
The positive conclusions concern primarily the political Copenhagen criterion, but I must add that the conclusions of this working party do not prejudice the conclusions of the forthcoming regular report on Slovakia.
The Commission will now accordingly acknowledge this encouraging development in its forthcoming regular report.
The Commission will adopt this report on the development of Slovakia on 13 October, i.e. as early as next week, together with the other progress reports.
The Commission is particularly strong in its support of the non-governmental organisations essential for the development of a mature civil society in Slovakia.
In the national PHARE programme for Slovakia 1999, EUR 2.5 million were made available for the Slovakian foundation for the development of a civil society, brought into being on the initiative of the Commission.
This foundation will forward funds to approximately 100 non-governmental organisations for activities, among other things, in the fields of human rights, environmental protection, social work, etc.
Mr Posselt, I would, incidentally, like to point out that PHARE resources for Slovakia in the year 1999 reached the level of the previously highest volume to date with almost EUR 70 million.
In addition, we have established a special fund for projects which are intended to benefit the national minorities, particularly the Romany.
This special fund has been allocated EUR 2 million.
