Mr President, after hearing the statement given yesterday by Commissioner Vitorino on the occasion of the tenth anniversary of the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, I am happy that we are today discussing concrete issues from which children can really benefit.
On account of the increased freedom of movement, more and more marriages between people of different nationality are taking place within the European Union.
When these marriages take place or indeed are dissolved, particular problems frequently arise due to the different laws of the two States.
The people who suffer the most in these cases are the children, who have to cope with additional problems, as if the other problems were not enough.
The new proposal by the Council for a regulation on the jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgements in matrimonial cases and parental responsibility proceedings now guarantees uniform marital status for the citizens of Europe.
Marriage and divorce documents as well as judgements should, as a result, be recognised in all countries of the European Union.
However, we must ensure that applying these principles does not continue to lead to differences and discriminations, something which unfortunately is currently the case.
In particular, the welfare of the children from these marriages must be ensured.
Custody proceedings should be coherent and conclusive, and the result recognised everywhere.
The basic interests of the children must come before everything else.
The individual child must have the possibility of being heard before a court and in this way of clarifying that his or her welfare is taken into account.
I hope that our colleague Mr Watson' s compromise solution does not create any additional problems, and that we are able to settle this important issue in the best interests of the child.
Only in this way can we avoid international legal proceedings lasting several years and prevent child abduction, which unfortunately often happens as a result of legal confusion.
We must tackle the problem of the various conflicts of laws that arise in matrimonial cases.
Only in this way can we achieve legal security in the international domain for the citizens and children of Europe.
For this reason, I would like to thank the rapporteur Mrs Gebhardt on behalf of myself and my group, for her splendid report, and I hope that we can now take a major step forward in the best interests of children.
