Mr President, with regard to the restructuring of companies we have been referring to, I would emphasise the statement made in the four Groups' joint motion for a resolution which has been mentioned.
Global players in Europe have no choice other than to lay themselves open to competition in world markets.
In the opinion of the Group of the European People' s Party, instances of rejection on social grounds are simply to be avoided.
None of this is a completely new phenomenon.
When I first entered Parliament ten years ago, I was approached by works committees from a cable fibre factory in my constituency.
Their company had just been taken over by a large group in France.
The employees were hoping first of all to have more secure jobs now.
More by chance than by anything else, they learned that the distant head office of the French concern wanted to close the factory it had taken over within three months.
It is when sore points like this come up that the Directive on European Works Councils comes in.
This has been predominantly successful.
We should also let it be known here, as a success story and positive message, that 600 new European Works Councils have been created in the last couple of years.
It is still often the case, though, that not enough information is provided soon enough.
An amendment to the Directive would definitely be appropriate here, Commissioner.
Finally, we must also insist that all companies and groups fulfil their now legally accepted duties to offer information and consultation and that there must be consequences if they do not do so.
I close with the observation by the Christian Democrat Minister of Labour under whose chairmanship the Directive on European Works Councils was adopted.
Lack of information results in uncertainty, mistrust and, in the end, only anxiety.
Information and consultation mean transparency, which creates trust and does away with losses due to friction in European companies.
Employers and employees are then winners in equal parts.
