Mr President, the Commission is clear about the importance of the reform of social security systems in the applicant countries in the context of their accession to the EU.
With the exception of the rights of itinerant workers and the coordination of regulations concerning them, the acquis communautaire relating to social security is not very extensive.
As the Commission' s Communication of 14 July 1999 on the modernisation of social security systems shows, efforts are being made to further develop the acquis communautaire.
The applicant countries must be incorporated into this process.
In its annual reports, which were presented to the Council and Parliament on 13 October, the Commission draws up a balance in this regard for the situation in the applicant countries.
The Commission establishes that although modernisation in the social sector and in health is generally only progressing slowly, efforts are being made to achieve strong social security nets.
Changes have recently been made in the social security systems and health insurance systems in Romania, Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, Lithuania, Hungary, Malta, Bulgaria and Poland.
These are considerable, but they are still not enough.
This leads the Commission to continue to implement the reform programmes for the social security systems in the applicant countries.
These programmes are known as Consensus 1 and Consensus 2.
They are to be continued in addition to the technical aid which most of these countries have already received in the form of national PHARE appropriations.
From the year 2000 the reform and modernisation of the social security systems in the applicant countries might also be supported with the Consensus 3 programme.
As of this year, i.e. 1999, this sector will be given EUR 18.6 million in support.
These funds are for institutional improvements in the social sector in the accession countries, the policy of partnerships playing an important role.
Within the framework of accession partnerships the strengthening of administrative structures for coordinating social security in the States of Romania, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Poland, Cyprus, Slovakia, Malta, Bulgaria, Latvia, Lithuania and Slovenia has been given medium-term priority.
The European Commission has also repeatedly pointed out to the applicant countries the useful role which social partners could play in the accession process and has also reminded them that greater consideration for social problems means that it is necessary to develop social dialogue in the applicant countries.
